 
•	 Q3 2016 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Merck & Co Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Merck and Co Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 Merck & Co., Inc. Sales and Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2009 Merck & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final


 HD
 Q3  2016  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,448 words
   PD
25 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Darla and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Merck's Q3 2016 sales and earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Teri Loxam. Please go ahead.

TERI LOXAM, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Darla, and good morning. Welcome to Merck's third-quarter 2016 conference call. Today I'm joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rob Davis, our Chief Financial Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Laboratories.

Before I turn the call over to Ken I'd like to point out a few items. You will see that we have items in our GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provide a reconciliation of these in our press release.

We have also provided a table in our press release to help you understand the sales in the quarter for the business units and products. I would like to remind you that some of the statements that we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties.

If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings, including item 1A in the 2015 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements and you can see our SEC filings as well as today's earnings release on Merck.com.

With that I'd like to turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Teri. Good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us on the call today.

Before we discuss our results for the quarter I would like to take a moment to reflect on the recent ESMO Congress where the latest data were presented from our Keytruda clinical development program for lung cancer and simultaneously published in two major scientific journals. Many have noted the significant implications these results may have for the treatment of lung cancer, the deadliest type of cancer in the United States. Just yesterday the FDA approved Keytruda as the only PD-1 therapy for the first-line treatment of metastatic lung cancer, making it an option for tens of thousands of lung cancer patients in the United States.

For the first time in decades the standard of care may change for lung cancer patients, offering them renewed hope. This advancement is what Merck is all about and we are honored to be making a real difference in the fight against cancer.

The recent Keytruda achievements are proof-of-concept, if you will, that our innovation strategy is working. Our sustained investment in medically-important R&D has yielded a number of recent approvals and regulatory milestones across the various therapeutic areas in our human health and Animal Health businesses.

Turning now to the results, in the third quarter we reported a strong performance that reflects growth across several priority programs including our vaccines portfolio and also Keytruda and Zepatier which are continuing to launch around the world. We remain confident in the strength of our portfolio from our Januvia franchise which is core to our business and continues to maintain its leadership position in the DPP-4 class to Bridion which is quickly contributing to our growth while still in the launch phase here in the United States.

Looking ahead, we will continue to follow the science, pursuing the best internal and external scientific opportunities that will enable us to take on some of the world's greatest health challenges. That is why business development remains an important priority in achieving our goals.

Our appetite for business development has not changed. We continue to seek the best opportunities and collaborations with the right financial valuation to augment our portfolio and pipeline.

In closing, our performance in the quarter positions us well to continue to invest in our business and to deliver a balanced, differentiated portfolio of medicines and vaccines that will generate long-term growth and sustainable value for shareholders and society. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rob.

ROB DAVIS, EVP, CFO & GLOBAL SERVICES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Ken, and good morning everyone. As Ken noted in the third quarter we delivered solid sales and earnings growth on both a nominal and ex-FX basis. Total Company revenues were $10.5 billion, an increase of 5% year over year.

Excluding the impact of exchange, revenue increased 6%. Our human health and Animal Health businesses contributed 6% and 7% growth respectively, excluding exchange in the quarter and despite an approximately $170 million headwind from sales in Venezuela in the third quarter of 2015. As a reminder, we went to the SIMADI rate in the fourth quarter of 2015, so this is the last quarter in which we will face this headwind.

I should note that the year-over-year increase in human health sales in the third quarter includes an approximately $200 million benefit from the pull-forward of customer purchases from the fourth quarter. These were mainly due to the timing of shipments in Japan in anticipation of an ERP go-live and the timing of CDC vaccine purchases.

Taking into account our performance in the first three quarters of 2016 and our expectations through year-end we are narrowing and raising our full-year revenue guidance to $39.7 billion to $40.2 billion. We continue to anticipate foreign exchange will have an approximately 2 percentage point negative impact on revenue in 2016.

Looking to the other parts of the P&L, non-GAAP gross margin was 75.3%, an increase of 20 basis points. Product mix was the primary driver of the increase versus the prior year.

For the full year we continue to expect non-GAAP gross margin to be roughly flat versus last year with margins in the fourth quarter expected to be lower on a year-over-year basis as we see the mix impact of generic competition for Cubicin and Zetia in the US market and declines in FX hedge gains year on year which flow 100% to gross margin. Non-GAAP operating expenses of $4 billion were roughly flat versus the third quarter of 2015 as declines in marketing and administrative expenses largely offset an increase in research and development expenses in the quarter. While we are committed to delivering a leveraged P&L over the long term it may be more challenging in the near term given the impending loss of market exclusivity for Zetia and Vytorin in the US and investments that we need to make to support the growing opportunity for Keytruda.

That being said, we remain disciplined and continue to look for opportunities to reallocate resources across the portfolio. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 23.8% this quarter. We expect the full-year rate to trend to the higher end of our previously communicated range of 21.5% and 22.5% which includes the impact of the R&D tax credit.

Taken together we earned $1.07 per share on a non-GAAP basis, delivering 11% growth versus the prior year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange non-GAAP EPS increased 8%. Of the $0.11 increase in non-GAAP EPS this quarter compared to Q3 2015 approximately $0.04 were related to the customer purchases in Japan that I mentioned earlier. On a GAAP basis we earned $0.78 this quarter.

Given our results in the first nine months of this year we are also narrowing and raising our full-year non-GAAP EPS range. We now expect to earn $3.71 to $3.78 per share with foreign exchange still expected to have an approximately 1 percentage point negative impact.

On a GAAP basis we now expect to earn $2.02 to $2.09 per share for the full year. Altogether our top- and bottom-line growth in the quarter driven by solid operational performance sets us up for a strong 2016 overall.

With that I will turn the call over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Rob, and good morning everyone. This morning I will provide highlights in the performance of global human health for the third quarter and my comments will be on a constant currency basis.

Global human health delivered another strong quarter with sales of $9.4 billion or an increase of 6%. We drove growth across many of our core areas including oncology, vaccines and hospital and specialty care.

I will highlight now a few of our key franchises and product launches and I'll start with oncology. We continue to execute on the launch of Keytruda and we are excited by the long-term potential for this important brand. Keytruda generated $356 million in sales in the third quarter with about half of the sales generated outside of the United States.

In the US sales are driven primarily from melanoma where Keytruda continues to be the leading immuno-oncology therapy as well as from the ongoing launch in second-line lung cancer. In August we also gained approval for recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer and we began to launch that indication immediately. This represents the first new treatment option for these patients in almost a decade.

In addition, and very importantly, we are ready to launch in first-line lung cancer where we just received FDA approval for the high PD-L1 expressing patients, those that express PD-L1 greater than or equal to 50%. We know from several data sources, including our own clinical trials, that this patient population represents about 25% to 30% of non-small cell lung cancer patients.

In addition, we received expanded labeling for second-line lung cancer based upon our KEYNOTE-010 data. So now patients that express any level of PD-L1 are eligible for Keytruda in the second-line setting.

Based upon these two new patient populations for Keytruda in lung cancer, we have already begun to see an acceleration of testing for PD-L1 at diagnosis. Outside of the United States we've launched our melanoma indication in more than 50 markets and we continue to see broad adoption of Keytruda as the leading metastolic melanoma treatment. We've also recently gained EMA approval in second-line lung cancer for all PD-L1 positive patients.

We are working through the reimbursements process in each country which, as you know, can take time. But we expect that we will start to ramp up nicely in Europe once reimbursement comes through.

In addition, we are preparing for the upcoming launch of Keytruda in Japan where we recently received an indication for melanoma. While we've already achieved a number of milestones for Keytruda this is just the beginning. We remain dedicated to establishing Keytruda as the leader in lung cancer.

In addition, we are very optimistic about the long-term potential for Keytruda across many different tumor types.

Moving now to primary care, the Januvia franchise generated sales of almost $1.6 billion this quarter, a 2% decline compared to the same quarter last year. Outside the United States we saw strong growth of 9%. This included favorable impact of about $30 million from the time we have customer purchases in Japan, which was offset by an unfavorable impact of roughly the same magnitude from sales in Venezuela.

In the US we saw a decline of 10% which was anticipated given the tough comparison to third-quarter 2015 where we saw a large buy-in. TRx trends remain strong in the United States with growth of 4%, and Januvia continues to be the leading DPP-4 treatment of choice in the market. We expect revenue growth in the United States in the fourth quarter this year versus fourth quarter of 2015.

Formulary discussions for 2017 are nearly complete and we expect similar access in the United States for Januvia to what we've had this year. We've seen and expect to continue to see increased pricing pressure in the United States for Januvia. But we are pleased by the continued strong volume growth of this franchise and we are pleased with our continued strength in this brand globally.

Now moving to our vaccine business. We had another strong quarter with sales of $2 billion or 27% growth. The increase was primarily driven by Gardasil, pediatric vaccines and Pneumovax.

Gardasil sales were $860 million globally, a 38% increase versus last year. In the United States Gardasil sales grew 33%, driven by the timing of public sector purchases but also higher demand. On October 7 the FDA approved a two dose regimen for 9- to 14-year-olds and just last week ACIP voted to recommend two doses for certain of these patients.

This is aligned with the dosing already adopted in some markets outside the US. It will have a negative impact on sales for Gardasil moving forward.

Pneumovax delivered another strong quarter with 24% growth versus prior year. The United States growth was primarily driven by demand with better follow-through from ACIP recommendations for patients 65 and above to receive Pneumovax one year after Prevnar. Outside of the US growth was largely driven by Japan.

Finally, in hospital and specialty care, sales grew 5% to $2.2 billion. Growth in acute care and contributions from launch products were partially offset by declines in Remicade.

Remicade sales were down 28% this quarter as tenders and new patient starts increasingly go to biosimilars. We expect the declines in Remicade to continue given competitive pressures but also increased switching.

Now moving to Zepatier. We are encouraged by the progress we are making in the first year of launch. Zepatier's product profile and positioning are resonating well with both healthcare professionals and payers.

As we continued to communicate last quarter we have seen some early wins in both the public and private sectors for 2016 and 2017. This includes priority access in the VA, favorable access within the Medicaid segment and key wins in the Medicare Part D and commercial segments.

It is important to note, though, that some of our major formulary wins had effective dates of either July 1 of this year or January 1 of next year. So we don't expect to see the full effect of these wins immediately. Given the time it takes from formulary success to getting patients on drug we are only just beginning to see the impact from those plans that became effective this summer.

We are also looking forward to launching Zepatier in Japan this quarter where it was recently approved. On the hospital side we had a stronger-than-expected quarter with Cubicin as generics only entered the market at the end of the quarter. Now that there are two generics in the market we are experiencing a decline for Cubicin which appears to be similar to the fast erosion rates that we have seen for other hospital products once generics launched in the US.

Finally, Bridion had another good quarter with almost 50% growth driven by strong demand across ex-US markets as well as a good ramp-up in the US following our launch earlier this year. While Japan is currently our largest market in the world, over time we believe that the US market will become the biggest for Bridion.

In closing, we continued to deliver solid performance across many products. We have good momentum and good execution across our core focus areas. And although we will have to contend with the Zetia and Vytorin patent expiry in fourth quarter of this year into next year, we believe we are well-positioned for the long term.

With that I will turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam. In the third quarter Merck Research Laboratories made substantial progress on multiple fronts.

First, in the area of infectious disease, based on our landmark Phase 3 studies and following the favorable vote of the FDA Antimicrobial Advisory Committee, the FDA approved Zinplava for the reduction of the risk of recurrence of Clostridium difficile infection in patients at high risk for such recurrences. I remind you that Zinplava is not an antimicrobial agent per se, but contains a monoclonal antibody, bezlotoxumab, which is directed against the toxin made by C. difficile and important in the pathogenesis of C. difficile-mediated disease. Review of the Zinplava file is also proceeding in the EU.

Also in the infectious disease area, last week we announced top-line results for our Phase 3 study testing the ability of letermovir to reduce the risk of cytomegalovirus disease in patients receiving hematopoietic stem cell transplants. These programs are only the most recent of our very broad efforts to improve therapies for infectious diseases including three important Phase 3 programs: Zerbaxa for the treatment of hospital-acquired pneumonia, relebactam to broaden the spectrum of our antibiotic Primaxin and doravirine, a non-nucleosidal HIV reverse transcriptase inhibitor with what we believe to be improved characteristics versus currently available therapy.

As Adam mentioned we continue to demonstrate impressive activity for Zepatier, our hepatitis C virus therapy, including in patients known to have used intravenous drugs. We are also making progress in advancing our triplet therapy for HCV infection with presentations describing the efficacy of this combination across genotypes to be presented at the upcoming AASLD meeting.

But much of the excitement during the past quarter focused on Keytruda, our PD-1-specific antibody for the treatment of malignant disease. As Ken and Adam mentioned, the FDA has just announced an updated label for Keytruda which includes our KEYNOTE-010 study demonstrating that Keytruda is superior to traditional chemotherapy in the second-line treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, including those patients whose tumors express PD-L1 in as few as 1% of cells.

The revised label also includes our KEYNOTE-024 study which was presented at the European Society for Medical Oncology meetings earlier this month and simultaneously published in the New England Journal of Medicine. In brief, KEYNOTE-024 was a randomized active comparator controlled Phase 3 study demonstrating that Keytruda, when used for the first-line treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer whose tumors express high levels of PD-L1 and who lack mutations in the EGF receptor or ALK genes, is superior to traditional platinum-based chemotherapy of the type that has been the standard of care in this disease for more than two decades.

These data are important because Keytruda treatment at a fixed dose of 200 mgs every three weeks reduced the risk of tumor progression or death by 50% and reduced the overall risk of death by 40%. Moreover, Keytruda treatment was associated with a lower rate of serious adverse effects than was observed in the chemotherapy treatment arm. We believe as Bruce Johnson suggested in an accompanying editorial in the New England Journal of Medicine that Keytruda will come to represent a new standard of care for appropriate lung cancer patients whose tumors express high levels of PD-L1, a population that represents between 25% to 30% of those presenting with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Also in the third quarter we received approval for the use of Keytruda in lung cancer in the European Union, again based on our KEYNOTE-010 data. Review of the KEYNOTE-024 study is ongoing by the Committee for Human Medicinal Products for the European Medicines Agency.

Beyond these very important results, during the third quarter we also obtained data from our KEYNOTE-021 cohort G study, demonstrating that Keytruda can be used in combination with traditional platinum doublet-based chemotherapy to yield objective response rates far superior to what we've seen with chemotherapy alone. In this study patients with metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer whose tumors expressed any level of PD-L1 were enrolled provided they lacked EGF receptor alkene mutations. Progression-free survival nearly doubled in that Keytruda-containing treatment arm.

The results of this study were published simultaneously in Lancet Oncology. While this was a Phase 2 study in a relatively small cohort, including just 123 patients, the results complement an earlier single arm study employing the same combination regimen which we presented at the American Society for Clinical Oncology in June. Patients in that cohort achieved an objective response rate of 71% and the objective response rate was 55% in cohort G.

Hence, there is reason to believe that combinations of traditional chemotherapeutic agents, perhaps acting through an immune activation mechanism, will work in concert with Keytruda to provide superior responses in advanced lung cancer patients in the future. Additional confirmatory studies, including our KEYNOTE-189 and KEYNOTE-407 studies, are already underway.

Finally, last week we announced that the independent data monitoring committee supervising our KEYNOTE-045 study in second-line urothelial cancer involving patients with relapsed or refractory bladder or related uro-epithelial recommended that the study be stopped on the basis of improved overall survival in the Keytruda treatment arm. KEYNOTE-045 is a Phase 3 active comparator controlled monotherapy study in a very sick patient population. However, the results obtained in this setting mimic results from the first-line KEYNOTE-052 study that we presented at the European Society for Medical Oncology meeting earlier this month which showed impressive response rates in the treatment of urothelial malignancy.

In sum, Keytruda is changing the cancer treatment landscape. Already approved for the treatment of advanced melanoma, second-line non-small cell lung cancer, first-line non-small cell lung cancer and squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, for which we obtained FDA approval in August, we obtained what we believe to be registration-worthy data in urothelial cancer, have more than 30 registration-appropriate studies underway and developed data supporting the activity of Keytruda in 22 different malignancies and have more than 360 clinical studies currently underway, including more than 200 combination studies evaluating responses in more than 30 different tumor types. Needless to say, we anticipate additional regulatory filings in the fourth quarter and, of course, in 2017.

Finally, I note that we are making good progress in our diabetes programs. Our insulin glargine filing was accepted for review by the FDA. And with our colleagues at Pfizer we expect to file for approval of ertugliflozin as monotherapy and as a fixed dose combination with metformin or with sitagliptin before the end of the year.

Now I will turn the call back to Teri.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Roger. Darla, we are going to get onto our Q&A process.

Analysts, if you'll please limit your questions to one or two so that we can get as many questions in as possible that would be appreciated. Darla, over to you.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thank you. Couple of questions.

On business development you mentioned it remains an important priority, it's the message you've had throughout the year. Two questions on this. I'm wondering how the news of August 5 that suddenly changed the outlook for Keytruda might change how you think about M&A?

You could argue that doing a bigger deal now runs the risk of disrupting the focus that you will need on immuno-oncology, for example. And related to that, can you give us some idea of the upper limit to deals you might be considering? Is everything on the table or are you looking more at midsize deals or smaller?

Then a second question is on Keytruda and IDO and the timing for making possible a go/no go decision for a Phase 3 in lung cancer. Is that something that we would learn about maybe in the next six months or so?

KEN FRAZIER: Good morning Tim, Ken Frazier here. Let me start on the business development question. So I said that it remains an important priority, and you should know that we are actively engaged and looking for ways of augmenting our pipeline.

And in so doing it's important to remember that we are not limited by size or by phase. We are going to continue to look for the best partnerships and collaborations.

But fundamentally we are looking for bolt-on opportunities as a Company. Your question about whether or not Keytruda changes our approach to business development, not really. We need to augment our pipeline, we continue to be active in that area but I would not say that the August 5 news has changed our fundamental approach to business development.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And Tim, it's Roger. With respect to IDO1 and decision-making in lung, we continue to pursue the melanoma study with our colleagues at Incyte. And we are very interested in the IDO1 combination.

As we develop more data for that we will be able to make a decision. And your timeframe is probably about right. I can't say specifically because these are event-driven studies.

But sometime I would imagine towards the middle of next year we'd be in a position where we would be able to make decisions about how much activity we're seeing and whether or not we should proceed in a registration-enabling study using that molecule.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning and thanks for taking the questions and congrats on the quarter. So first on Keytruda in lung, I mean clearly you are going to be a lone and dominant player in first-line for the next 18 months, but how do you view the level of competitive threat from Bristol and Astra's IO combos?

And then just what are the combinations you are evaluating which you're most excited about in terms of the potential in the lung setting? And then second on Keytruda share in second-line lung, can you just talk about how much of a headwind to sales the requirement for PD-L1 testing has been and then what your expectations are for share sales in this setting given the testing is now going to become the standard? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, so let me start. First of all, we are thrilled to be the first to launch in first-line lung. And I give Roger and his team a lot of credit for the design of the trials and the ability for us to actually be the first to have approval there.

We are always looking at competition. We are always mindful of competition and we want to make sure that we do everything we can to get as much utilization, appropriate utilization, obviously, for the indication that we have as quickly as possible and to really cement our product Keytruda as foundational in the treatment of first-line lung cancer.

With regard to second-line lung, right now we have about a 10% marketshare of the second-line lung market in the United States. But if you look at patients that have PD-L1 greater than or equal to 50 that's where the majority of our market share is and our market share is much, much higher in that group.

With the new data that we have in first-line lung and new indication there's no doubt that PD-L1 testing will become standard. We are already seeing very significant increases in PD-L1 testing since the ESMO meeting.

So I believe that the barrier of needing to be tested in second line for PD-L1 will be removed to a very large degree. The fact that we now have an indication for all PD-L1 positive patients in the second-line setting, I believe that we should be a leader in not just first line but second line as well over time.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And Colin, it's Roger. You know, standing back from this I think one has to be impressed by the general efficacy of combinations of Keytruda with other agents. That's true with respect to PD-1 blockade and other agents preclinically but also clinically.

So if you look at combinations, for example, with immune active agents like TVEC there's impressive evidence of activity. There's evidence of activity with other immunologic agents but there's also, as we've talked about, very impressive combination activity with chemotherapy. And in a way the 21G results in lung cancer basically put a floor on what to expect from these combinations.

At a minimum you are going to have to see the kinds of response rates in progression-free survival results that we've seen in 21G. Keep in mind, that study, as you know, is just 123 patients and, nevertheless, a highly significant result with respect to progression-free survival.

Over time we will see if an overall survival result is obtained there. The crossover is so large in those populations, it may not be possible to see it. But I think that there is reason to believe that Keytruda can be used in combination with a lot of things and oncologists have a lot of experience using traditional cytotoxic chemotherapy. So there's a reason to believe that those kinds of combinations will work well.

That said, one shouldn't discount other kinds of immunologic combinations, including combinations with CTLA4-directed agents. And we've done those studies and shown that there is activity for those combinations.

The question is ultimately what provides the best balance in terms of therapeutic efficacy and safety and tolerability. It's early days. It will take some time to sort that out but we will be pursuing all of those things and we are.

OPERATOR: Geoff Meacham, Barclays.

GEOFF MEACHAM, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning guys. Thanks for taking the question. I have a couple of related ones.

Payer question on first-line lung, so what limitations would you guys expect on both duration or patients below the 50% cutpoint? Are there lessons to be learned from the second-line experience?

And then Roger, you mentioned crossover. So some have talked about the lower rate of crossover for 024 as being a major contributor to the OS benefit. Just want to get your perspective on this with an eye towards the crossover rates that we could see in 189 or 407. Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, Jeff, so this is Adam. First of all, if you look at payers in first-line lung we haven't seen any limitations on duration. And I don't think we will see any limitations.

With regard to people below PD-L1 greater than or equal to 50, we will have to see what happens there. What we have seen in second line is as long as they're PD-L1 positive that the payers are not pushing back very much on the physician.

So the physicians still have a lot of control if they are PD-L1 positive. I would assume it will be the same in lung for first line but it's, obviously, early to tell.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And Geoff, it's Roger. With respect to crossover, clearly if you have 100% crossover and it occurs early then you are simply testing the treatments a few weeks apart and under those circumstances it's unlikely you would be able to demonstrate an overall survival benefit.

That said, patients in a chemotherapy-controlled study chemotherapy does have effect. And so crossover tends to occur later as a result and under those circumstances it will be possible to demonstrate an overall survival effect.

It's a fairly complicated set of differential equations one would have to apply to this to understand exactly what the puts and takes are. But my guess is that because the treatment effect seemed to be really quite large in the 024 study, my guess is that we will be able to see those kinds of treatment effects as well in the chemotherapy combinations. Time will tell.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hello. Just following on from the earlier question, could you just update us in relation to your collaboration with NanoString in terms of when this could be an approvable diagnostic but could drive broader usage in patients who may not have the higher expression levels of PD-L1?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Andrew, so the collaboration with NanoString is designed to obtain better, really better diagnostic mechanisms because we know that PD-L1 expression is an imperfect biomarker. That said, the NanoString test does not exclude PD-L1 expression.

PD-L1 expression is an indicator of an inflammatory response because the PD-L1 transcriptional unit is under the control of cytokines like gamma interferon and wherever there's an immune response you will see PD-L1 up-regulation. Much of the NanoString signature involves other genes that are similarly regulated. So it isn't the case that the NanoString test will look totally different from a PD-L1 test.

It will just have a better receiver operator characteristics so that you will have better sensitivity and specificity. So I guess we continue to refine that signature. It has -- it is working quite well actually, but it will take a while before we can actually reduce it in practice.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIS SUISSE: Hi, thanks so much for taking my question. Just two. I appreciate the comments you made in the prepared remarks about the leverage and it may take time given the investment.

Can you just maybe given a little more color? We get a lot of questions on how to think about 2017 versus 2016 and I know you are not ready to give guidance. But just would you expect any degree of margin expansion as we look at this point on how 2017 would look relative to this year?

And then if I could just throw one second question in, this is actually maybe just moving away from Keytruda and, obviously, a lot of great news there, just beyond Keytruda and everything you are working on there in oncology maybe Roger if you can just highlight what are the other key pipeline assets you think people may be overlooking? And, obviously, you have the BACE and the CETP coming out next year, but I think people view those as higher risk. So are there other ones that you would point to that people should keep an eye on to think about diversification beyond Keytruda? Thanks.

ROB DAVIS: This is Rob. Thanks for the question.

Obviously, we are not in a position to give guidance for 2017 this morning. But just directionally, as I said in the prepared comments, we are moving into a period where we will have the pressure from Zetia and Vytorin coming and that being said we had the growing opportunity clinically we see with Keytruda. And that's why we made the specific comments we did, which is what we remain committed to leverage long term.

We recognize that in specific periods we may not be able to achieve that given the level of investment we need to make in R&D and the cost we've already taken out elsewhere in the organization. So more to come as we get through the next quarter and we give specific guidance, but that was the purpose of the comment I made in the prepared remarks to highlight what we see is a great opportunity with Keytruda. And we are going to invest behind it appropriately.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: With respect to key pipeline assets, obviously, all the Phase 3 programs and those that are proceeding through registration investors are aware of. We are very excited about the work that we are doing overall in infectious diseases, which includes the antibacterial programs as I mentioned, relebactam, of course, pretty interesting and doravirine in the HIV area.

We actually have quite a large HIV program which is pretty exciting. And, obviously, the HCV program and triplet data are very important.

And beyond that, of course, the year-two filing with our colleagues at Pfizer, given our traditional strength now in diabetes and the opportunity to combine a really very well-behaved SGLT2 inhibitor with Januvia that can be an important opportunity, as well. Nothing there that investors necessarily have missed, but I think important things to pay attention to. Earlier in the pipeline there's an awful lot going on, but time doesn't permit me to really review that stuff.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks for the questions. So a couple of quick ones.

First off, can you talk to us a little bit how the PD-L1 testing dynamic is actually shaking out, percentage of basically lung cancer patients that are being tested with PD-L1 today and where do you see that maxing out in the next 12 months or so? And maybe can you give us a little bit of a sense of where you are seeing the majority of that uptake? Is it really starting at the academic hospitals or are the academic hospitals relatively fully penetrated and then community is going to take a bit longer? Just trying to get a better sense of how the PD-L1 testing dynamic works.

Then secondly, how did the tests actually come back and in what time frame? Maybe you can help us understand what information is provided to the physician when they request a PD-L1 test and how that information comes back.

And then a last question is biosimilars, can you just give us a sense of how you are thinking about the opportunity for biosimilars for Merck specifically and how you would encourage investors to think about that? Thanks so much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Okay, so let me address the questions on PD-L1 testing. I will focus first on the US because the dynamics are a little bit different in some other markets in the world. But in the United States about 60% of physicians are testing PD-L1.

This was prior to ESMO. We don't have any new data on that percentage after ESMO. At the same time, we estimated that about 40% of non-small cell lung cancer new patients were being tested prior to ESMO.

I get weekly data and it's not perfect. But you can certainly see a trend break where there is a significant increase in the number of patients that are being tested for PD-L1 right after ESMO data was released. So I expect the numbers I just provided you will increase significantly.

I think it's important to remember that even if you look at EGFR testing, it took a while for that to become standard. And even today after years about 80% to 85% of patients are routinely tested. So I think there's probably a ceiling of somewhere between 80% to 85% of PD-L1 testing that will occur over time.

But with that said, it does take a little while to ramp up, albeit it's ramping up faster. If you look at the length of time it takes to be tested it's about the same as all other testing for lung cancer. So if a physician asks for PD-L1 testing, they can get it back within a week, typically as fast as they can get ALK testing or EGFR testing, so it's very fast.

In terms of the way it comes back to physicians it's not always consistent. Different labs and in academic institutions they may give it differently. But right now most of them come back with a number that says PD-L1 55 or 48 as opposed to just a positive or a negative sign, and we think that that's the way it will probably continue over time.

We are seeing it in academic hospitals. But we are also seeing it much more utilization even outside of those academic centers, as well.

With regard to biosimilar opportunity, the bottom line is that we think it is a real commercial opportunity. It's not our strategy. Our strategy remains on innovation.

But with $40 billion on a global basis of drugs that are biologics going off-patent or at least biosimilars being able to enter the market over the next five years we think there's a real opportunity for us commercially.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Assuming Keytruda and Alimta as a combo won't be reimbursed soon, Roger and Adam, based on your interaction with physicians and payers considering the label and the compendia listing, are you expecting patients or how are you expecting patients that are strong expressers somewhat below 50% to be treated in the near term: 35%, 40%, 45%, etc.?

And then on diabetes, Adam, can you talk more about the Januvia pricing pressure that you are seeing, what is driving it and how sustained you think it will be? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Well, you know I would just say, Gregg that in my discussions I think people are wondering about those patients who are younger, otherwise healthy patients without significant comorbidities who present with a diagnosis of advanced lung cancer and far too often when people present with lung cancer it is already at a quite advanced stage. And the question of how to give those people the greatest possible benefit, whether they will choose to use chemotherapy combinations, obviously, these are approved drugs, I don't know. But certainly I've heard physicians discuss that who have wanted to discuss that with me and with others.

So I think there is some consideration of that kind of issue. I think in the population of individuals who are -- who have significant comorbidities, of course, the generally more favorable tolerability of Keytruda as monotherapy will drive decision-making.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And, Gregg, with regard to Januvia as I mentioned in my remarks, we expect to still have very good managed care coverage in 2017 that's consistent with what we had in 2016. So we will have good access.

The pricing pressure in the United States, it's certainly increased over the last few years and there's new in-class competitors that have had significant discounts and every year the rebates and discounts have increased and the same will be true in 2017. But at the same time with our strong position in terms of market share and our ability to grow our demand, in particular TRx volume, we've been able to offset most of the pricing pressures with the increase in demand. So I think that 2017, of course, will be more pressure than 2016 but we are optimistic as we move into the year.

OPERATOR: John Scotti, Evercore ISI.

JOHN SCOTTI, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi, good morning. Thank you for taking the questions. Just a couple on Keytruda and one on hep C.

So I was wondering if you could characterize a bit more your base case for what you see the ramp is into first line? Given the level of PD-L1 testing you are seeing already should we expect a fast ramp into the 4Q? Is there a warehouse of patients ready to get on therapy?

And then given the exclusion criteria in 024, so brain metastices, autoimmune, EGFR, ALK, etc., should we think about the real world addressable population of KEYNOTE-024 as perhaps lower than the 25%, 30% of first-line lung that has PD-L1 expression? Or does that number bake into excluded [pigments]?

And, quickly, are there any interims built into the Phase 3 KEYNOTE-189 and KEYNOTE-407 chemo combo studies that have the potential to stop early and so do we have a sense for when those may be? And then briefly on Zepatier, can you characterize what you are seeing out there in terms of discounting and is discounting increasing? And then you mentioned that new formulary position will take into effect in January of next year, I just wondering if those are parity contracts or are there any exclusive contracts there? Thanks so much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So let me start with first-line lung. There are no bolus of patients that we would expect in first-line lung. We expect as patients are newly diagnosed that's when they would be considered for utilization for Keytruda.

So I would not expect a big bolus that would come into the marketplace in fourth quarter. It's going to be new patient by new patient.

Over a year in the United States, Japan and the EU there's about 250,000 patients that are new patients with non-small cell lung cancer. And based on everything that we've seen, we believe that 25% to 30% is the right number for you to think about as we look at those patients in the marketplace.

Then the last thing I'd say is if you look at Zepatier, as I mentioned on previous calls the marketplace had very significant discounting that was occurring. In fact, the pressure on the rebates and discounts before we even launched into the market was very significant. Despite that, we feel like we've gotten good formulary access.

We are doing very well in the VA, Medicare Part D, also in some commercial plans, particularly in the regional plans. As we look at 2017 beginning of January, we do have some new contracts. Many of them are at parity, but I think there will be one or two that we will be able to discuss in the not-too-distant future where we will have a preferred position.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And John, it's Roger. With respect to the exclusion criteria in KEYNOTE-024, I don't think you should worry about that too much. Patients with active brain metastases are treated with typically with radiation directed towards those metastases as a medical emergency.

Those are the same kinds of patients that we enrolled in the study. There weren't really significant exclusion criteria that are different from what appears in routine practice. So the number that we are quoting is pretty much what you should expect our studies are aligned with what's been seen epidemiologically.

And for KEYNOTE-189, I think the clinicaltrials.gov dates are the dates you should probably use. That study, final data entry is listed in September and that's probably a good time to think about the 189 study.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks very much. Regarding Gardasil, could you just tell us what the recent price increase was and how we should think about the potential decline in sales next year as there is the shift from three doses to two doses for treatment? So specifically how we should think about netting out the positive benefit of the price increase as we think about the reduction of dosing.

Then with respect to Keytruda, could you just tell us what the US sales were by indication in the third quarter so we have a sense of the business mix in the third quarter? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Sure. Let me start with Gardasil. If you look at Gardasil, there's a couple of things to think about.

First of all, we've had price increases similar to the price increases that we've had in the past so you haven't seen any difference or acceleration per se. But you also have to realize that the 9-valent cost a bit more than the 9-valent and most of the patients are moving to the 9-valent vaccine.

So I'd net the price increase plus the difference in price between those two, the 4-valent and the 9-valent. The thing that is hard for us to understand right now is if you have two doses, will the doses be given in the same year or, for example, if a person presents themselves in August before back to school do they get one dose next year in August but they don't get the second dose until the following year in August? So there's still some things we are going to have to wait to see in terms of how physicians treat those patients.

Some might get the first dose in January, the second dose in July or August. Some might just get August dose the one and then the following year be the second dose. So there is certainly going to be an impact.

The magnitude right now we can't be certain of. If you look at the sales by indication just to give you a rough amount, about 50% to 55% of our sales were in melanoma, about 25% or so was in lung, 5% or so was in head and neck cancer. This is for the US specifically, and then the rest was in all other.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Just a couple of follow-up questions on issues that were already addressed. Again, Adam, in the biomarker testing process I'm still unclear about something.

You said there's about 60% testing but is that 60% including PD-1 or is that 60% testing in general for EGFR and ALK? And where are we within frontline how many -- how much of that testing is for PD-1?

And, again, I know we've been trying to get a sense for timeline, but can you elaborate a little bit longer on how long that's going to take for the market to be prepared for a large penetration of Keytruda in frontline just given that PD-1 testing is probably in its early stages? But if you can elaborate on that.

Also, Roger, on the compendia listing issue for KEYNOTE-021, which we learned was rejected, there was a lot of enthusiasm expressed about that at ESMO. What is the process now? Do you have another opportunity to get that on the compendia listing or do we need to wait for the full Phase 3 trials? Thanks very much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So Jami, this is Adam. First of all, I want to be clear on the 60% number that I provided. What I said was approximately 60% of US physicians are testing for PD-L1.

Not that 60% of patients are being tested. So right now if you look at the physicians across the US that treat lung cancer we believe about 60% of them test at least sometimes for PD-L1. We also believe that about 40% of non-small cell lung cancer new patients are being tested for PD-L1.

So that should give you a better idea of what's happening prior to ESMO. Since ESMO I don't have updates for these numbers because it takes time to have these updated, but I do see a very significant increase in the total number of tests that are being ordered for PD-L1. I don't believe that there's any rate-limiting ability of the labs or the institutions to do the testing so that's not the issue.

The question is how quickly will physicians adopt testing for all patients. And the reason I capped that at about 80% to 85% is because even today for EGFR testing we see only about 80% to 85% of patients that are treated. So if we are at 40% the cap is at 80%, the question is how fast do we go from 40% to 80% or 85%? And that's what we are working on.

With regards to a ramp-up for lung, there's not going to be a bolus of patients. The 250,000 patients in the top seven markets around the world come in throughout the entire year. And the question will be as they come in how quickly will they be put on to Keytruda if they have PD-L1 greater than or equal to 50?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And Jami, it's Roger. With respect to compendium listing, the process is one -- it's completely independent, of course, and it is simply groups of experts who look at available data and make decisions about guidelines in essence. So there's no real basis for re-addressing that question with the KEYNOTE-021G data which they've already looked at.

The compendia analysis I would think would be informed by the availability of more data. Now other things could change, but I think what we would expect is that with the availability of KEYNOTE-189 and others there will be the opportunity to pursue it, presuming that those data are actually confirmatory to pursue labeling for that. And that's probably the next thing that happens in that general area.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. Just one related to pricing for Ken.

Just on Proposition 61, Ken which will be on the November 8 ballot in California as a proposed statute, just your thoughts on the proposal. Since it would create possibly a price ceiling on prescription drug costs paid by state programs predominantly Medicaid, can you just remind us what percent of your business is in Medicaid?

Second question relates to the one asked by Jami. Can we just get an update on where you are on enrollment on KEYNOTE-189 and any thoughts around interim analyses on that program? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me start with Proposition 61. First of all, we don't break out our sales by channel but I will say as an overall comment we have very serious concerns about this measure and its potential impact on patients. And that's why we are part of a growing coalition of groups that are actively opposing that ballot measure in California because we think it will negatively impact millions of California patients. So we are very active in opposing it.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And John, on KEYNOTE-189, as I said, the thing to think about is the clinicaltrials.gov date of September of next year is about the time one should expect a data readout. We are not anticipating that we will have anything before then.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks very much. First one here, just following up on John's question, more broadly on drug pricing and public scrutiny, it just seems like there's a lot more focus on drug pricing than any time in recent memory whether it's Prop 61, the EpiPen hearings, etc. So maybe just a question for Ken, how do you see this playing out for the industry?

Are you guys thinking about price differently than in the past? Should we be thinking about a more challenging pricing environment going forward? I would just love to hear your thoughts on that topic.

And then a second one just coming back to some of the business development priorities, I know the focus is on bolt-ons but when we are thinking about larger deals specifically, would Merck be willing to take on single program or product risk in a larger deal? As we think about those if a sizable component valuation ordeal were tied to one or two core programs, is that something that fits what Merck is looking for or should we be thinking about more diversified assets as we think about things that are beyond bolt-ons? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me start with the business development question. I would start by saying that I think we will look at each deal based on its particular merits. And so I don't think there's a way for me to respond to that.

I think what our past experience has been is we've tried to look for those deals where we believe we are going to get scientific assets going forward. And if we can get good assets that are in the marketplace now that's something that we would be willing to do. But I don't think I can say categorically that we wouldn't take the kind of deal that has a concentration in one product versus another.

Obviously, concentration is one of the factors that you weigh when you think about the risk inherent in the deal. As it relates to pricing, we also are very concerned about the whole issue of pricing and affordability for patients. It's a significant one.

It's been amplified in this year's political season. We find it unfortunate that a lot of times the focus is on affordability and pricing rather than the long-term benefit that these therapies provide.

So from our perspective we think that going forward we don't think these environmental pricing pressures will ease. And that's why we continue to focus on our strategy of investing in innovative R&D for products like Keytruda because we think those are the kinds of products that will help Merck weather some of the pricing risks and pricing pressures that we will be facing as an industry going forward.

TERI LOXAM: We are going to try to squeeze in one last question, Darla.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Guggenheim Partners.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM PARTNERS: Yes, thanks for thank you very much, Roger. Just a very quick question on 189 and 407.

As patients move over or change overall therapy, those from pembro plus we assume to those, sorry, those from chemo onto pembro plus chemo, this question I think is really important because there may be a hypothesis around duration. And I'm curious if you think that's possible , that is the longer we look we actually don't see even if patients cross over on the other side of that crossover they may not totally separate, and I'm just wondering if you think that's a possibility? Thanks very much for your time, and also congrats on a good roll you are on.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Thanks, Tony. I do think, again, as I said at the limit if the crossover occurs early you are just comparing a single chemotherapy regimen to chemotherapy plus Keytruda given early or late. And if they are only weeks apart I don't see how under those circumstances how overall survival would separate.

And, of course, that's a traditional problem in the development of chemotherapeutic agents and the reason why progression-free survival has been accepted as an endpoint in a variety of different tumor types. On the other hand, chemotherapy is active and for individuals whose disease is controlled by chemotherapy then the crossover will inherently occur later because we believe that Keytruda provides a more durable benefit to patients with lung cancer. And the data from that are clear across a variety of tumor types.

Under those circumstances I would expect separation for overall survival. And as I indicated it's a fairly complicated set of equations to try and estimate what that's going to look like. I think we probably have to wait for the data.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me close by saying this was a very strong quarter for Merck. As we look to the future we are very excited by the launch opportunities that we have in front of us: Keytruda, Zepatier, Bridion as examples.

We think those building on the firm foundation we have of products like Januvia and our vaccines give us a great opportunity in the long term. We know that we are facing some headwinds from loss of exclusivity in the next year, but we continue to be confident in our ability to actually invest in some of these high-potential programs going forward. And you should know that we will continue to look for ways to help offset some of the incremental spend that we'll have to make in order to support a product like Keytruda to ensure that this Company provides the best short- and long-term proposition for its shareholders. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161026ecap001xh
  


 HD
 Q2  2016  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,042 words
   PD
29 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Darla and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Merck's Q2 2016 sales and earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn the call over to Teri Loxam. Please go ahead.

   TD
TERI LOXAM, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Darla, and good morning. Welcome to Merck's second-quarter 2016 conference call. Today I am joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rob Davis, our Chief Financial Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Labs.

Before I turn the call over to Ken I would like to point out a few items. You will see that we have items in our GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provide a reconciliation of these items in our press release. We've also provided a table in our press release to help you understand the sales results in the quarter for the business units and products.

I would like to remind you that some of the statements that we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risk and uncertainties.

If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2015 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements and you can see our SEC filings as well as today's earnings release on Merck.com. With that I would like to turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Teri. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining the call this morning. Our performance this quarter reflects our continuing progress in advancing our priority products and programs. As we accelerate the launch of Keytruda around the world our researchers are continuing to study Keytruda with an extensive clinical development program that spans a multitude of cancer types. We are confident that Keytruda will be a key treatment in cancer for many years to come.

We also made good strides in the launch of Zepatier, our new hepatitis C medicine, during its full first quarter on the market. Our key in-line brands, such as Januvia whose sales are still growing nearly 10 years after its initial launch, also significantly contributed to our performance this quarter.

We remain committed to our innovation strategy and our mission of delivering important medicines and vaccines that address many of the world's foremost health challenges and global unmet medical needs.

Business development continues to be a priority and we are committed to finding the best external science to enrich our pipeline and portfolio. As I have previously outlined, we are taking a disciplined approach both financially and scientifically to identify and acquire opportunities at the right financial valuation.

In addition to acquisitions, we also are engaging in scientific and commercial partnerships to pair our best internal innovations with the best external innovation available.

As a recent example of our efforts, earlier this year we closed on the acquisition of Afferent Pharmaceuticals which will complement and enhance our primary care pipeline. Last month we began a new scientific collaboration with Moderna Therapeutics to develop personalized cancer vaccines by combining Keytruda with Moderna's vaccine technologies. Additionally, we recently announced our intent to acquire Vallee of Brazil to fortify our animal health business in Latin America.

In closing, our performance in the quarter positions us well for the second half of the year. Looking forward we will remain focused on executing on our launches and driving the performance of our strongest brands, as well as advancing and augmenting our broad pipeline to deliver a balanced and differentiated portfolio of valuable medicines and vaccines.

We believe this strategic focus will create long-term growth for the Company and sustainable value for both society and shareholders. And with that I would like to turn the call over to Rob.

ROB DAVIS, EVP & CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Ken, and good morning, everyone. Our results in the second quarter reflect continued execution across the organization with our broad portfolio of products contributing to growth both on the top and bottom line.

Total Company revenues were $9.8 billion, an increase of 1% year-over-year. Excluding the impact of exchange, second-quarter revenues grew 3%. Our human health and animal health businesses performed well in the quarter delivering growth despite an approximately $210 million headwind from sales in Venezuela in the second quarter of 2015.

As you will remember, we scaled back our operations in Venezuela toward the end of last year and therefore recorded negligible sales from the country in the second quarter of this year.

Partially offsetting growth in human and animal health this quarter were lower contributions from our revenue hedge program and third-party manufacturing sales versus the prior year. While our revenue hedging program continues to contribute to the top line, it is expected to have a negative impact in each quarter this year on a year-over-year basis.

In terms of revenue guidance, we now expect full-year revenue of $39.1 billion to $40.1 billion including an approximately 2 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange at mid-July rates.

Looking to the other parts of the P&L, non-GAAP gross margin was 75.7%, an increase of 30 basis points versus the second quarter of 2015. Foreign exchange and product mix both contributed to the year-over-year improvement as growth in higher-margin products such as Keytruda and Zepatier offset the declines in lower margin products such as Remicade.

On a full-year basis non-GAAP gross margin is still expected to be roughly flat versus last year. Non-GAAP operating expenses of $4.2 billion increased 4% year-over-year with lower marketing and administrative expenses and an approximately 2 percentage point benefit from foreign exchange partially offsetting higher research and development expense in the quarter.

The increase in R&D reflects a $200 million upfront payment to Moderna for our recently announced collaboration on the development of personalized cancer vaccines as well as higher investments in our clinical programs.

We continue to expect non-GAAP operating expense for the full-year to be generally in line with the prior year. We anticipate incremental spend in R&D will be partially offset by lower marketing and administrative expenses.

Our non-GAAP effective tax rate this quarter was 19% primarily driven by the beneficial impact of orphan drug federal income tax credits for Keytruda recorded in the quarter. We continue to anticipate the full-year rate to be between 21.5% and 22.5% which includes the impact of the R&D tax credit.

Taken together we earned $0.93 per share on a non-GAAP basis in the second quarter, delivering 8% growth or 12% excluding exchange and another quarter of P&L leverage. On a GAAP basis we earned $0.43 per share in the quarter.

For the full-year we are raising the lower end of our non-GAAP EPS guidance, narrowing the range to $3.67 to $3.77 per share. We now expect foreign exchange to have an approximately 1 percentage point negative impact in mid-July rates. On a GAAP basis we now expect to earn $1.98 to $2.08 per share for the full-year.

Altogether we delivered growth both nominally and excluding exchange on the top and bottom line. We continue to have a number of opportunities in our pipeline with new product launches and with the potential for business development.

We remain disciplined in our approach to expense management recognizing the need to balance delivering in the short-term while making the appropriate investments to drive long-term growth. With that I will turn the call over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP, PRESIDENT GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Rob, and good morning, everyone. This morning I'll provide highlights on the performance of global human health for the second quarter and my comments will be on a constant currency basis.

Global human health delivered another quarter of growth with sales of $8.7 billion or growth of 2%. We drove increases in core areas of oncology, diabetes, vaccines and hospital and specialty care which were partially offset by declines in Remicade and Nasonex.

I will now highlight a few of our key franchises and product launches and I am going to begin with oncology. This is an exciting time for Merck as a leader in immuno-oncology and as we work to make Keytruda foundational for the treatment of cancer.

We are launching our melanoma indication in more than 50 markets globally and we are preparing for launches in additional tumors. In the United States we are maintaining our strong position in melanoma and we are launching in second line lung cancer. And we are ready -- we are ready to launch imminently in head and neck cancer and we are preparing for the launch in first line lung cancer.

In the second quarter sales of Keytruda reached approximately $315 million on continued strength in the melanoma indication. In the US we are also seeing increasing sales contributions from progress we are making in second line lung cancer.

Importantly, PD-L1 testing rates continue to increase with approximately two-thirds of physicians now testing to determine which patients are most likely to benefit from PD-1 directed therapy.

This is very important as we prepare for a potential first-line indication where we recently announced that Keytruda offers an overall survival benefit compared to chemotherapy in patients whose tumors express high levels of PD-L1. Customers are eagerly awaiting the opportunity to treat lung cancer in the first line setting with Keytruda.

We also believe that all of the work we have been doing to drive testing for second line use will position us well in first line when we come to market. With a broad and deep clinical program that continues to grow and continues to generate positive monotherapy and combination data, we remain very excited about the long-term opportunity for Keytruda.

Next in primary care, the Januvia franchise grew 2% this quarter. In the United States we continue to drive TRX growth of 4% to 5%. As you recall, we saw 14% and 22% growth in the second and third quarters of last year respectively.

These tough comparisons had an impact on the year-over-year changes this quarter and will also impact year-over-year changes in the third quarter. But I continue to focus in the underlying TRX volume growth and it remains strong in the United States.

Outside of the US we generated strong growth in Europe and Canada and in emerging markets. We remain confident in our diabetes franchise for the remainder of 2016 and we are pleased with our continued strong access that we expect in 2017.

Moving to our vaccine business, sales of the vaccine portfolio reached about $1.3 billion. Growth of 7% came primarily from our pediatric vaccines, which was partially offset by Gardasil. Overall Gardasil sales declined 7%. In the US sales of Gardasil grew only 2% due to lower CDC buying. Outside of the US sales were impacted by the timing of public sector purchases in Brazil.

We are celebrating the 10-year anniversary of the launch of Gardasil. Real-world data that was recently published continue to show the benefits of HPV vaccination and we are seeing increased uptake and utilization of our HPV vaccine around the world. Also influential organizations, including the CDC, ASCO and the WHO, have expressed strong support for HPV vaccination.

It is worth noting that many markets are moving toward implementing a two dose regimen of Gardasil and there are discussions ongoing in the US as well. We anticipate this change to a two dose regimen could go into effect in the US by the end of 2016 or early in 2017.

Finally, in hospital specialty care, sales grew 3% to $2.1 billion. Growth in acute care and contributions from launch products were partially offset by declines in Remicade and Isentress due to competitive pressures that we expect will continue going forward.

We are making good progress with the Zepatier launch. We are having favorable conversations with payers and we have garnered some early wins in both the public and the private sectors for 2016 and 2017.

In the VA utilization of Zepatier is ramping up nicely and we have also started to see some advancement in Medicare Part D, in managed Medicaid and in commercial segments. Customers see the value that Zepatier can offer with high cure rates in a broad and diverse set of patients. It will take some time for Zepatier to ramp up as formularies come online, but we are pleased with the access that we have achieved so far.

Finally, Bridion is growing well on strong global demand and early contributions to the US launch. In the US our teams are rapidly securing formulary access and initial indicators of use by physicians in the surgical suite are encouraging.

In closing, our teams delivered another quarter of solid performance. We have momentum in our four focus areas and strong execution for our key launches. This positions us well for the second half of 2016 and for 2017. Now I will turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP, PRESIDENT MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Adam. During the second quarter we made significant progress in gaining registration for important new products and also advanced a number of new programs.

On the infectious disease front, in June the FDA antimicrobial advisory committee agreed on a vote of 10 to 5 with one abstention that substantial evidence of the safety and effectiveness of bezlotoxumab, now called Zinplava, in preventing recurrence of C. difficile infection in patients 18 years and older had been presented.

Subsequently the FDA has requested additional information to enable their review of the Zinplava file with the result that a new action date of October 23 has been set. We are working closely with the FDA and with other regulatory agencies to make Zinplava available to patients at risk for recurrent C. difficile infection.

Considerable progress has also been made in advancing curative therapies for hepatitis C virus infection. The European Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use, known CHMP, adopted a positive opinion regarding the approval of Zepatier for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection noting its high efficacy against HPV genotypes 1 and 4 including in patients with compensated cirrhosis and severe kidney disease.

This recommendation has now been ratified by the European Commission. I will remind you that Zepatier is not cleared by the kidney and can be used in patients irrespective of baseline renal function.

As I mentioned during the first-quarter earnings call, we are working to supply the European market. We have made good progress on this front and still expect that we will be able to launch Zepatier in the EU in the fourth quarter or at the latest in the first quarter of 2017. Reviews in other jurisdictions are also proceeding.

Meanwhile we are continuing to explore additional treatments for the more than 150 million people with hepatitis C virus infection around the world. Progress was made in advancing our triplet regimen incorporating MK-3682, a urogenital nucleoside polymerase inhibitor, along with a protease inhibitor Grazoprevir and a novel NS5A inhibitor, MK-8408.

We now have substantial experience with this combination with more than 1,000 patients enrolled in clinical trials. Results from our extensive Phase 2b program will be available later this year and will be presented at major scientific meetings.

Because of the favorable properties of MK-3682 we are also exploring a doublet regimen employing just this polymerase inhibitor along with MK-8408. Together we believe that these combinations can offer broad efficacy for HCV infected patients irrespective of HCV genotype and in a variety of clinical settings.

Lastly on the infectious disease front, I note that our V920 vaccine to prevent Ebola virus disease received FDA breakthrough designation and prime designation from the EMA, permitting close regulatory interaction to optimize development and facilitate review of this important potentially life-saving agent.

Turning now to oncology, this was an extremely active quarter for Keytruda, our PD-1 directed immunotherapy for malignant disease. I have said repeatedly that I expect that Keytruda, by virtue of the spectrum of its activity, will prove to be foundational in future cancer care.

At The American Society for clinical oncology meetings last month we presented data demonstrating the activity of Keytruda as monotherapy in 15 different tumor types. We also presented data from multiple studies where Keytruda has been used in combination with conventional chemotherapy, with targeted therapies and with immunotherapies.

In all we now have more than 300 clinical studies underway exploring the activity of Keytruda in more than 30 different tumor types. More than 100 of these studies employ Keytruda in combination with other agents.

In Europe the CHMP adopted a positive opinion for the use of Keytruda in the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in patients who have failed at least one prior therapy and whose tumors express the PD-L1 biomarker.

We have championed the view that because patient outcomes in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer are correlated with the extent to which PD-L1 is expressed on the tumor, it is important to assess the status of this biomarker prior to initiating therapy with a PD-1 directed agent.

The data supporting our dossier were derived from the KEYNOTE-010 study which showed that Keytruda treatment in populations with 1% or more of tumor cells expressing PD-L1 yielded superior overall survival compared with the results of traditional chemotherapy. These data are also under review by the FDA with an action date of October 24.

During the quarter we also reported top-line results of our KEYNOTE-024 study which compared Keytruda monotherapy to platinum-based chemotherapy in the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Keytruda treatment demonstrated superior progression free survival and superior overall survival in this setting. A manuscript describing these results has now been accepted for publication and hence should appear in the near future. We've also begun to work with regulatory agencies to enable supplementary filing of these data to our existing Keytruda labels.

Beyond treatment of melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer, we have pursued accelerated approval for Keytruda for the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck with disease progression on or after platinum containing chemotherapy. The PDUFA date for this review is August 9.

Based on our current trial enrollments we have several additional potential filings for Keytruda over the next 12 to 18 months, including bladder cancer, gastric cancer, colorectal cancer in the setting of microsatellite instability, and relapsed refractory classical Hodgkin's lymphoma, an indication for which we received breakthrough designation from the FDA in the second quarter.

Moreover, data continue to provide intriguing evidence of the broad spectrum of Keytruda activity. Earlier this month for example Julie and colleagues at the Oregon Health Sciences University published a preliminary report demonstrating meaningful responses in patients with castration resistant prostate cancer who had progressed on Enzalutamide.

As Rob noted, R&D expenses increased this quarter in large part owing to the establishment of our business partnership with Moderna and the development of novel immunogens with the goal of further improving the efficacy of our immunomodulatory agents including Keytruda.

While we have, through the Moderna investment, as well as our funding of key clinical trials, increased our support for Keytruda in immuno-oncology, we continue to pursue other important new therapies. For example, this week we announced the closing of our acquisition of Afferent Pharmaceuticals which gives us access to a set of P2X3 receptor antagonists.

Their lead program, AF-219, is currently under study in a fully enrolled Phase 2b trial for the treatment of chronic cough and is also being investigated in a Phase 2 study for the same indication in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. I look forward to updating you on this and other programs in the coming months.

Meanwhile we continue to support the development of ertugliflozin both as monotherapy and in combination with Januvia. We have presented important Phase 3 data on this program and will submit regulatory dossiers before the end of the year.

Also we expect to receive the adjudicated cardiovascular safety data from odanacatib from our external evaluators in the next few days which will then be analyzed over the next several weeks. It is my expectation that the US odanacatib file will be submitted in the fourth quarter. I will now turn the call over to Teri.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Roger. As we move forward with Q&A we would like to get in as many questions as possible this morning on the call, so we would appreciate it if you would limit yourself to just one question each. Darla, if we can move forward with Q&A please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: I have a commercial question on the PD-1. So Bristol's first-line trial results coming up. In your opinion if they hit PFS and possibly OS in all PD-L1 expressors, not just the high expressors, how much of a benefit do you think that gives them commercially?

Already they are obviously much more penetrated in lung in the second line setting. They are already getting usage in first-line to some degree off label. And I am wondering if they were to hit in a broader population, if you think that makes a substantial difference?

And can I just clarify the comment about publication timeline for 024? It sounds like, if I heard you right, that has already been accepted. You said that would be published in the nearer-term. I am assuming that doesn't get published before ESMO, but ESMO would be the likely venue for a concurrent publication.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Tim, it is Roger. The manuscript was accepted for publication; I don't have a publication date so I can't really speculate on when it would be published vis-a-vis ESMO. But we have an accepted manuscript and I'll let Adam comment on the commercial question.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, Tim, I think it is a very important question and I will walk you through how I think about it. The first thing is I will be very glad to be first to market, being first to market for a new indication matters.

I remember when we were first to market with melanoma people were asking if you have progression free survival, but you don't have overall survival, they come out with overall survival will it matter? And I kept saying I just want to be first. And as long as we have the studies underway to show that ultimately we can show overall survival that we should be okay.

If you look at first-line lung the first thing I would say is we are glad to be first. The second thing is the issue that we have right now with PD-L1 testing in second line where the competition has all comers, I think that will go away in first-line because everybody will be doing PD-L1 testing. So that obstacle that we face today goes away with first-line.

The second question will become not only what the indication is but what reimbursement occurs. And even today you start to see reimbursement occurring even where you don't necessarily have the indication.

And the good news is at the time of the first-line launch we should have data in second line showing positive results in the PD-L1 [+1] positive so we will have data in +1 to 50 for second line. So we still have to see how it plays out, but I am pleased to be first to launch hopefully and then we will see how the reimbursement works out over time.

OPERATOR: Geoff Meacham, Barclays.

GEOFF MEACHAM, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the question and congrats on the quarter. Roger, you've downplayed the chances of achieving an OS benefit in the past. And now that you have it I was hoping that you can put it maybe in clinical context especially given the crossover.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: I don't think I downplayed the possibility. I think it is always the case that it is uncertain what the results of clinical trials will be. I mean they are experiments and we don't know the answer in advance.

Certainly we are very pleased with the results that we saw in the 024 study. There is meaningful crossover of course as there is now in any such study. And the fact that we achieved overall survival even in the context of meaningful crossover I think gives a sense of how powerful the benefit is.

Keep in mind that we had a small amount of first-line data that we had obtained in the [001F] cohort, so we knew that there was benefit in that setting. And in that sense it is not surprising to see impressive PFS results. The overall survival obviously was something that we had hoped for and it is nice to see it come through.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. On the Bristol and Lilly calls they indicated that Opdivo was seeing up to 15% to 20% use in first-line lung. Can you comment at all, Adam, about use of Keytruda in first-line lung?

And then the tangential question to that one for Roger. It would seem that, based on the Checkmate 012 data, that an objection that your sales reps might be getting is that has Keytruda been studied in lung cancer across all PD-1 levels with a CTLA-4 type mechanism like a Yervoy.

Can you help me understand why a physician would use Keytruda in first-line lung or across second line lung if its next step is and it believes that it needs to go on to an IO/IO combo versus an IO/chemo compound? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, John, with regard to Keytruda, right now in the US about 70% of the uses still melanoma and then there is somewhere between 10% to 15% that we believe is in second line lung and then the rest is amongst a whole host of different uses. So the utilization in first-line lung right now is very low.

But what is important as we are seeing PD-L1 testing start to occur more and more often. And I mentioned that two-thirds of physicians are now testing. And what we see is when physicians test they tend to use Keytruda and that is where we see the utilization of Keytruda for lung right now.

The good news is the work that we have been doing on testing I think is going to pay off for us as we get the first-line indication and the obstacle goes away for second line. So I am very encouraged and excited about the opportunity to launch in first-line for sure.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: John, it is Roger. The truth of the matter is we really, as I have said, need to understand how well Keytruda works as monotherapy and for that matter Opdivo in order to be able to understand how to proceed with combination therapies.

The combination therapy work is all extremely early; we do not have any data that tell us that any combination provides superior overall survival versus monotherapy. Indeed, we have the first data in first-line lung that show that Keytruda is superior to traditional chemotherapy.

And again, it needs to be reviewed, but when people have a chance to look at the data that represents a real sea change in the way people treat lung cancer. Combination chemotherapy has been the mainstay of therapy for decades. So that is going to be a pretty big deal.

If you look at response rates, an imperfect indicator of course, the best response rates that we see are the combination of Keytruda with chemotherapy like [pemetraxate] where we reported a small number of patients, 71% overall response rate in the lung cancer setting which is obviously very provocative.

With time I think we will discover how best to use these agents in combination, whether that is an immuno-oncology combination with a CTLA-4 directed molecule, with other molecules -- we have 10 of them in development on our own -- or with chemotherapeutic agents time will tell.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thank you very much for taking my question. I appreciate it. I guess I'll follow-up on the last question, Roger, if I may.

When I think about the market for immuno-oncology what I always tell clients is lung is where the money is and if you can really figure out lung you will probably figure out the space. The other tumors -- lung is probably bigger than all the other tumors combined.

So, I imagine you are very focused on this too. So my question is specifically what do you think of the data that Bristol has put up on Yervoy plus Nivolumab? And that will be out next year. And what are you doing to hedge against that risk that that becomes the standard of care?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Well, Mark, a number of issues. First of all lung is not larger than all other tumors combined. It is an extremely important cancer, but again, I keep trying to point out that we are at a very early point in the evaluation of the use of PD-1 directed therapies in malignant disease.

Just again, as an example, the fact that we are seeing prostate cancer response -- remember that previously it was thought prostate cancer was refractory to PD-1 directed therapy, Opdivo treatment there were really no results. That shows you that we are still learning a great deal about how to use this as monotherapy.

Combinations, a lot of combinations appear to be showing early signs of signals, whether that is combinations with chemotherapy or combinations in the case of Opdivo, and us as well, with ipilimumab with CTLA4. Time will tell which is the best combination.

If it turns out that ipilimumab was the best combination then that would be the way to go forward and we obviously have studies using that combination as do others. Our combination studies with targeted chemotherapies and traditional chemotherapies are also very far along and that will be extremely interesting.

We will have a chance to see those data relatively soon. We will finish the first of those sets of studies in the third quarter, so we will have to see the data very soon.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. Regarding the upcoming Keytruda PDUFA in head and neck cancer, should we assume approval will be only for third line PD-L1 positive patients given that was the population studied? Or should we expect a broader label than that? And how should we think about the size of the opportunity as well? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: First of all, with respect to the approval, I cannot comment on what exactly the label will look like but -- except to say that in general of course you get the label for the population that you studied and that is what we would expect.

So this is the first and it is an accelerated approval in the head and neck cancer setting. There's a lot of additional information that will be coming out from our other studies going forward. In terms of besides of the opportunity, I will let Adam speak to that.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So if you look at head and neck, it is a few thousand patients in the United States. But again, it is not about any one indication; it is about Keytruda becoming a foundational therapy.

And when you listened to Rogers introduction and you hear all of the different indications and the tumors and combinations that we are studying, it is going to be all those together that we are preparing for every day that is going to make Keytruda foundational for the treatment of cancer in our view.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just switching gears a little bit, can you elaborate on the Zepatier launch thus far, any surprises that you are seeing? And when we think about market sizing over time for HCV, how do you see the number of patients treated annually trending from here? Do you think overall market volumes can increase or do you think we have hit a peak? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Chris, this is Adam. So, we are six months into the launch of Zepatier and we are encouraged by the progress that we are seeing. Obviously the first thing we are doing is trying to secure access and, as I mentioned, we have early wins.

So in Medicare Part D for example we have United and Express Scripts where they have added us at parity to their Medicare Part D formulary effective July 1. In Medicaid we are making significant progress in not only getting our formulary but some of those Medicaid formularies have increased the number of patients that they are making eligible for treatment.

We are working very closely with our commercial customers and access is progressing. We still have some negotiations that are ongoing as we speak. And as I said, the VA continues to ramp up nicely. So, we are encouraged by the access that we are getting and now we have to work to build market share and that is what we are going to focus on as we move forward.

In terms of the overall market, it's a large market, there's about 3 million patients in the US that still need to be treated, so it is going to be a market that will be around for a while. We are currently seeing just about, just over 200,000 or so patients per year treated in the US. That is a lot more than if you would have gone back five years ago where there was somewhere between 120,000 to 150,000.

So, we have certainly seen an increase, but that increase I think has maxed out and I think we will see more of where we are as a steady-state as we move forward. And that really the size and the pace of the market is going to depend on getting more patients diagnosed and through the system as we move forward.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. So, on Keytruda in first line, (technical difficulty) question. Just given the lack of PD-L1 testing harmonization and therefore the need to test for the drug you want to use, if Bristol does show a PFS and OS benefit across a broader PD-L1 expression population what would drive physicians to test for Keytruda given it would carry a lower probability of a positive result?

And then just a follow-on for Keytruda. Could you just give some details around the current performance in terms of share in each indication? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So let me start. First of all, the label says for Keytruda that it is based upon a PD-L1 test by an FDA approved test. It doesn't have a specific test assigned to Keytruda versus Opdivo. So I am not concerned and frankly most of the commercial labs that are measuring PD-L1, and/or the individual institutions that do it themselves, are not having designated tests for designated products, so that's not a concern frankly.

In addition to that, with first-line lung I believe everybody is going to start to measure PD-L1 right from the start. So, even for the competition I think they're going to be advocating the importance of measuring PD-L1 moving forward. So that obstacle will go away.

Then ultimately I believe it is going to come down to the market share that you are able to achieve within the lung segment and therefore I am very pleased that we will be the first one to launch.

If you look specifically at our share of our business, about 70% of our business is in melanoma, 15% is in lung, and then the rest is in all other indications. And then you can kind of extrapolate that if you look at -- we have about, if you look at the dollar sales reported, about 30% of the dollar sales in share right now.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And Colin, it is Roger. The Blueprint Project demonstrated that the PD-L1 diagnostic test that is used by Bristol-Myers for Opdivo and our diagnostic tests are actually very similar in terms of their results and can be used almost interchangeably.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks for the questions. So just a couple of quick ones. Number one, can you just remind us again what the benefit on tax was this quarter? It seems quite a bit lower than I would have anticipated this quarter.

The second question is -- as it relates to the manuscript that is in place, obviously we don't know the timing, but one would presume that that could impact NCCN guidelines and obviously uptake in the front-line setting. So am I thinking about the commercial impact of that publication?

And what would be the second publication to sort of validate the effect that obviously you're going to see an overall survival benefit in that patient population?

And the last question is relative to the transcript; obviously you don't want any surprises with the FDA filing an evaluation. So one would presume that the filing in fact could be with the agency at this point. Would that be a separate filing per se or is it possible that that could be incorporated into the existing filing for KEYNOTE 010?

We have seen the agency move in that way before, but should we think of this as a separate and distinct filing or is it possible that it could be incorporated into the KEYNOTE 010 filing? Thanks a lot.

ROB DAVIS: Good morning, Seamus. It is Rob, I will answer the tax question and then turn it over to Roger.

What the benefit relates to is the IRS allows you for orphan drug clinical trials. So if you have a drug that has a validated orphan status from the FDA the clinical trial expenses related to that drug can be taken as a credit against your tax, that is what we refer to as the orphan drug tax credit.

This relates to certain indications and stages within malignant melanoma that did receive a designation, I think we got it back in 2013. And then we spent the majority of the time since then accumulating the data and validating the expense and that led to the accrual you saw in the quarter. So that drove the vast bulk of the onetime benefit we saw in the quarter.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: It is Roger. With respect to the manuscript, as you say, the first manuscript which describes the results of the 024 study, you asked about what would be the second publication. And there will be a number of publications that will come out of the study, although it is not an enormous study, there's still a lot of data there.

The first thing is to step through the primary and secondary endpoints and the characteristics of the treatment results. And thereafter there will be a lot of color and shading that will be added in other publications.

It is important data to get out there. My view looking at the data is that they are potentially practice changing and that it's important there be a chance to review that. Those data of course wouldn't be available for review by NCCN or other agencies until such time as publication takes place.

Then you also raised a question about our interaction with regulatory agencies. And all I can say about that is we've begun our discussions, we're working closely with regulatory agencies to understand the basis for filing supplements in the context of having multiple reviews.

And maybe if I could elevate just a little bit, I would say that the workload for regulatory agencies, given the very large number of studies that we and our competitors are doing in this field, is quite substantial. And how best to manage that workload and evaluate all these new data that are coming in is something I think that FDA and other regulatory agencies are wrestling with.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Just a couple of questions. First, you talk about the advantage of being first, which I agree with, in front-line lung. But do you expect that there will be off label use for Keytruda in patients with less than 50% PD-L1 expression? And when are those trials -- the all comers or the over 1% expressers and above, when are they expected to read out?

Then I have a question for Ken. On almost every conference call or meeting you have hinted at the desire to do deals, business development, the importance of that to your long-term strategy, yet we really haven't seen much in the way of deals this year. The deals have been relatively small in nature.

Is that what the hint is today, that the types of deals you are likely to do are likely to be like the Moderna deals or the smaller deals? Or should we still expect that Merck is likely to announce a major transaction, which is something that I think you kind of signaled earlier in the year?

And when you think about the Company's outlook over the next five years with a number of LOEs, how important is a large transaction to your growth strategy? Thanks very much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: This is Adam. So first of all, being first to market does matter and, as you said, I think it is an advantage. We will only obviously be able to promote it based upon the label that we have and therefore be in expresser greater than 50%.

Whether there is off label use we will have to see what NCCN decides and what individual physicians decide. It wouldn't surprise me if they decide that but, again, it is nothing that we would have ever tried to encourage or promote.

KEN FRAZIER: And on business development, thank you for the question, Jami. What I am signaling is that business development remains a very important priority and we are very actively engaged in trying to find the best scientific innovation.

Our main focus is to continue to augment our Phase 2 and early stage pipeline. We remain very active with the partnerships and collaborations and we are also looking actively for bolt-on acquisitions in key growth areas.

From our perspective I think it is important to remember that for us a bolt-on acquisition is not defined by size. When we talk about a bolt-on we are focusing more on finding the right assets that can augment our pipeline as compared to doing a large deal just for, for example, cost synergies.

So, all that being said, we are looking very carefully, we are taking our time and we are being diligent in seeking out the right assets at the right valuation. And I think that is what you should read into this.

And I think if you look across what has happened in the industry, there has been a re-rating of certain assets, but those boards and management teams are also taking time to assess what they actually think will happen going forward in their future.

So, I wouldn't read anything into it other than the deals we have done are the ones that we think can add value. And we will continue to look at all kinds of deals going forward.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Guggenheim Securities.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM PARTNERS: Excuse me, good morning. Roger, brief question. In the Julie Graff data, did she actually see responses in prostate cancer patients who were PD-L1 negative and/or was that what informed you to decide to do three cohorts in the 199 trial?

And then briefly, Adam, on Zepatier, can you say to date what percentage of sales are from government channels versus those from commercial channels, realizing that may change over the next six months? Thanks very much.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Tony, it is Roger. The Graff data are -- it is a very small study and you are talking about just a handful of responders. It is unknown in each one of these settings whether the PD-L1 biomarker -- and this is part of a larger set of biomarkers that we look at, whether the PD-L1 biomarker is relevant to that particular tumor type.

And if it is whether the relevant index is the tumor proportion score or more broadly the combination of both tumor cells and inflammatory cells. So still a lot of work being done in the area of biomarkers and how predictive they are.

Stay tuned. I think the important thing to note is in a tumor type that was previously believed to be refractory, that is where an immuno-oncology would provide no benefit, there is clear evidence there could be some.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And Tony, this is Adam. So we saw the $112 million of Zepatier for the quarter and, again, we are still early into the launch. I mentioned that we have some Medicare Part D wins that start July 1. Obviously you won't see a lot of sales from those in the quarter.

Most of the sales in the quarter came from the VA and some other segments where we had utilization for patients with renal insufficiency. But as we move forward I would expect that the mix is going to change substantially. And as Medicaid -- I'm sorry, as Medicare Part D commercial ramps up I think you will see a very different mix.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Adam, do you have any comments on Remicade dynamics and that rate of erosion and how you have chosen to play defense there? And maybe you could comment on how that experience so far shapes your view on the potential for biosimilars for Merck from an offensive standpoint.

And Rob, since we don't have the 10-Q, would you are mind providing cash flow from ops and receivables, if you have those handy? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: This is Adam. With regard to Remicade, our strategy all along has been to try to hold onto as many existing patients that were currently treated as we can. I think we have done a very good job with that.

Most of our loss of revenue came from reference pricing due to lower prices from the biosimilars. However, we are certainly starting to see that we are not only losing new patients but there are some countries in Scandinavia and even some other larger countries that are beginning to think about substituting therapeutically even existing patients.

So, I do believe that we are going to continue to see erosion for Remicade, that the biosimilar impacts, they are accelerating and they are going to continue as we go through the year.

As I think about biosimilars in the future, I think the key is going to be what your order of entry is into the marketplace and being first or second in the marketplace will matter. Each market molecule is going to be different and we will deploy different strategies based upon those different markets.

You see different strategies, for example, that you might use in the UK and France versus Germany. And we will have to be very specific by market how we launch our biosimilar portfolio.

At the same time what I would say is Symphony grew 16% ex exchange. So even the seen an impact on Remicade you haven't seen that go over into the other anti-TNFs and therefore we expect to continue to see good growth from Simponi.

ROB DAVIS: Gregg, this is Rob. We don't have the specifics for cash flow and the working capital you are asking for this morning. We are still finalizing some of those parts. But in general we tend to continue to see strong trends in cash flow and continue to see overall working capital improving across inventory and payables.

And then on the receivable side there is a little bit of a swing back, but then part of that is due to just as we are launching new products the mix of the receivables on those relative to what we see on the others. But there is nothing new or significant continuing trends and you will see the exact numbers when you see the Q.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. I was hoping, Ken, that you could paint a picture of how you see the next couple of years unfolding. Obviously you don't provide long-term revenue guidance, but you have some big growth drivers in Keytruda and Zepatier. And at the same time you will be experiencing the patent expirations of Vytorin and Zetia and Cubicin.

And so, I guess I am asking could you help frame for us how you see the evolution of Merck's revenue base and what other key revenue contributors you see to help offset the patent expiration pressures? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Well, obviously, we are not in a position, as you suggested, to give any 2017 guidance yet, but we are actively looking across our portfolio at the best ways, as Rob said, to balance the near-term investments while continuing to drive long-term growth.

We do anticipate some headwinds from several LOEs, as you suggested, Zetia, Vytorin, Cubicin and Nasonex. But we are also pleased that we are maintaining the steady growth of Januvia as a foundation to launch these products like Keytruda and Zepatier.

Beyond that, as you know, we have things that are coming out of our pipeline. Roger made reference to building onto our diabetes franchise with ertu as well as odanacatib. And next year we are looking forward to being unblinded with respect to our BACE inhibitor and anacetrapib. So those would be some of the internal things.

And then as I mentioned in response to an earlier question, we continue to look at business development and inorganic growth as an important critical part of our strategy going forward. As I sit here today, obviously I haven't anything new to announce to you, but I just want you to know that we are actively pursuing value creating inorganic growth opportunities.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, folks, and thank you for taking the questions. Adam, I know you are well aware of the significant price erosion in the hep C market as a result of increased competition. As you look at the immuno-oncology market, how comfortable are you with long-term price sustainability there as the number of treatment options increase over the next few years? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: I would look at them as separate and distinct markets and I think the big difference is Medicare Part B versus the way in which the hepatitis C products are reimbursed. I think there is different dynamics in those two markets.

With that said, as you look forward and you think about combinations of potential immuno-therapies or combinations with other therapies we have to find additional ways to think about contracting with customers and working with customers differently than the way in which you do today.

It is remarkable when you think about the number of indications that we are studying Keytruda for and we think about how we are building this huge wall of data, it is going to be real hard for followers to match us with the data that we are going to have over time.

And we are going to have to find ways to work with payers so that they can really find the right way to ensure the patients that need our monotherapy or our combination therapies in the future have access to it.

So, we are going to continue to think about the right ways to do pricing and contracting. I feel pretty confident as I sit here today that we will be able to maintain good contracts and access as we move forward.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Adam, can you talk about the emerging markets, broadly what is going on there with your products, obviously excluding Venezuela which we know is going on.

And then secondly, can you talk about the Januvia/Janumet franchise overseas and just give us a flavor for how those products are doing relative to all the changes going on in the broader diabetes market. Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: First of all, with regards to emerging markets, ex Venezuela -- ex foreign exchange we grew about 6%. So we continue to have good growth in the emerging markets. And if you look at China, we had 11% growth ex foreign exchange. So, the growth albeit not as good as it was a couple years ago it continues to be robust.

With that said, lumping emerging markets together today is not a good idea, because you have very different dynamics in terms of what is occurring in a market like China versus what is occurring in a market like Russia or what is happening in Argentina.

So we really do focus market by market what our opportunities for growth are. And then we titrate our expense base in those markets based upon the opportunities. But I do believe that the emerging markets will provide growth going forward and remain an important opportunity for us as we move forward.

With regards to Januvia outside the US, we continue to see good growth in Europe and Canada and that growth is coming from volume and the volume growth in most of those markets is very strong.

I would say the biggest issue we are facing is the fact that our market share is still high in countries like Germany, that it is hard to grow market share. So we have to continue to find ways to grow from sulfonylureas and ultimately from metformin.

But there is hundreds of millions of patients that need to be treated outside the US. If you look at the emerging markets we have strong double-digit growth of Januvia. I think that is going to continue over time. And we really have not gotten NRDL approval for Januvia in China yet. So once that is achieved I think that represents another opportunity for us for growth of the Januvia franchise outside of the US.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

OPERATOR: Pivoting towards HIV, from the data you recently presented it looks like you have once daily Isentress. Could you talk to both the [sensor] properties of having that molecule given the erosion of that integrated market from Gilead and GSK or (inaudible) as we've seen historically? But also can you talk about the potential offensive strategies given you now have a base for a single tablet once a day regimen? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, as you look at our HIV franchise, obviously we have been losing dollar, share and volume based upon what is occurring in the competitive set in the marketplace. So we are really glad that we are going to have a QD Isentress and I think it will be very helpful for us.

The key is generally speaking we don't give guidance at a product level, but it is unlikely that the introduction of QD Isentress is going to be able to return the franchise to growth. I think it is going to enable us to be able to compete better within that marketplace as it exists. But I wouldn't look for very strong growth moving forward based upon that product for the franchise.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And if I could just say -- it is Roger. We have quite a number of compounds that we have developed that have intriguing properties with respect to HIV therapy that are all in early development. I haven't had a chance to talk about those in an earnings call setting but will hope to as more data becomes available.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, let me just close by saying this was a strong quarter. We continue to execute on our innovation-based strategy. And we continue to look for the best opportunities for long-term growth with respect to things like Keytruda and Zepatier. But we are also eager to find the best opportunities that will create long-term value for our shareholders both inorganically and organically. Thank you very much.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Darla. That concludes the call.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes Merck's Q2 2016 sales and earnings conference call. You may now disconnect your lines.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160730ec7t006my
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,387 words
   PD
5 May 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Darla and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Merck's Q1 2016 sales and earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Thank you.

   TD
I would now like to turn the call over to Teri Loxam. Please go ahead.

TERI LOXAM, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Darla. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Merck's first-quarter 2016 conference call.

Today I'm joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rob Davis, our Chief Financial Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Labs. Before I turn the call over to Ken I want to point out a couple of items.

First, you will see that we have items in our GAAP results, such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs, and certain other items. You should note that we've excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provided a reconciliation of these items in table 2 of our press release. We've also provided a table to help you understand the sales results in the quarter for the business units and products, which can be found in table 3 of our press release.

Second, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current belief of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2015 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, as you can see our SEC filings as well as today's earnings release on Merck.com.

With that I'd like to turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Teri. Good morning. Thank you all for joining the call today. We're off to a good start this year with our first-quarter performance.

Our Keytruda program expanded as we continued to launch this important cancer medicine around the world. Also in the first quarter, we launched our new hepatitis C medicine, Zepatier.

In addition to these ongoing product launches, our key in-line brands performed well, particularly Januvia, which continues to command predominant share within the DPP-4 class. Adam will provide context on this shortly.

We remain committed to delivering long-term growth and shareholder value. To do so, we will stay true to our goal of becoming the premier research-intensive global biopharmaceutical company, bringing forward medically important products that address many of the world's greatest health needs. And above all, it is critical that we do this in a sustainable manner that enables us to continuously reinvest in R&D.

Business development remains one of our most important priorities, and we are very actively engaged in finding the best external innovation that will help grow our portfolio and pipeline. We are confident that our scientific discernment coupled with financial discipline will allow us to identify and acquire the right assets at the right valuation to create long-term value for shareholders, consistent with our innovation strategy.

Before I conclude, let me also emphasize that we are fully engaged in the challenging policy environment that our industry experiences now. We are actively addressing the key policy issues that can have an impact on our ability to fund the discovery and development of the next generation of innovative and differentiated medicines and vaccines, most notably, pricing and tax reform in the United States.

We are engaging key stakeholders in the healthcare environment to seek constructive solutions and to ensure that they understand the therapeutic and economic value Merck's products and business operations provide.

In closing, we remain committed to our innovation strategy and are focused on advancing and augmenting our broad pipeline, both through internal and external means, as well as driving marketplace success with our launches and key in-line brands. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Rob.

ROB DAVIS, EVP, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Ken, and good morning, everyone. Our performance in the first quarter reflects our focus on execution and continued productivity improvements. We again delivered P&L leverage with growth, excluding exchange, on both the top and bottom lines.

Total Company revenues were $9.3 billion, a decrease of 1% year-over-year. Excluding the impact of exchange, first-quarter revenues grew 3% driven by both our Human Health and Animal Health businesses.

Venezuela negatively impacted Q1 revenues by approximately $240 million, reflecting the reduction of our operations in the country. As a reminder, we recorded $625 million of sales in Venezuela in 2015, which were more weighted to the first half of the year, so the year-over-year impact will be greatest in the first two quarters of this year.

Looking to the other parts of the P&L, non-GAAP gross margin was 77% in the quarter, an increase of 50 basis points versus the first quarter of 2015. Lower discards was the biggest driver of the year-over-year improvement.

Non-GAAP operating expenses of $3.9 billion was 3% lower year-over-year, or roughly flat excluding foreign exchange favorability. Higher promotional spend behind our new products drove a slight increase in marketing and administrative, while lower licensing expenses contributed to a decline in research and development. Taken together, we earned $0.89 per share on a non-GAAP basis in the first quarter, delivering 10% growth excluding exchange, which reflects our continued commitment to delivering a leveraged P&L.

Turning now to our outlook for the rest of the year, we are narrowing and raising our revenue and EPS guidance for 2016. While we are experiencing more favorable exchange rates versus our original guidance, we are facing a few headwinds, in particular the entry of generic Nasonex in the United States earlier than originally assumed, which we expect will partially offset the exchange rate favorability this year.

We now expect full-year 2016 revenues to be between $39 billion and $40.2 billion. This reflects an approximately 2% negative impact from foreign currency at mid-April rates. We continue to expect our non-GAAP 2016 product gross margin and operating expenses to be roughly in line with 2015, and we still anticipate the non-GAAP tax rate for the full year to be between 21.5% and 22.5%.

In terms of our 2016 EPS outlook, we are raising our non-GAAP EPS guidance range from $3.65 to $3.77. This reflects an approximately 2 percentage negative point impact from foreign currency at mid-April rates.

To summarize, we demonstrated strong performance, leveraging top-line growth to deliver 10% growth in non-GAAP EPS, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. We benefited from the contribution of new product launches while continuing to sustain growth in our key franchises and driving operational improvement across the Company.

With that I'll turn the call over to Roger -- I'm sorry, to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP, PRESIDENT GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Rob, and good morning, everyone. This morning I'll provide highlights on the Global Human Health performance for the first quarter and my comments will be on a constant-currency basis.

We're off to a solid start for the year. Total Human Health sales reached $8.1 billion, growing 2%, and we drove growth across our core areas of diabetes, vaccines, hospital and specialty care, and oncology. What I will do now is highlight a few of our key franchises and product launches, and I'll start with primary care.

The Januvia franchise had a strong quarter, growing 4% globally. In the United States sales grew 9%, driven primarily by volume increases and some benefit from customer buying patterns.

Outside of the US we saw strong growth in Europe and Japan, offset by emerging markets, which was impacted by Venezuela. Excluding Venezuela, Januvia franchise sales grew 5% outside of the US.

First-quarter results for Januvia demonstrate that we can continue to grow volume and retain strong market share of about 75% in the United States and 65% globally. We continue to expect global Januvia franchise growth, ex-exchange, in 2016.

Now I'll move on to our vaccine business. Sales of our vaccine portfolio grew 1% and reached about $1.3 billion on steady growth from Gardasil and pediatric vaccines, partially offset by declines in our adult shingles vaccine, Zostavax.

Zostavax sales declined in the first quarter, resulting from a weaker flu season in the US, which means that less people go to get vaccinated in general, but also the recent changes to ACIP recommendations for pneumococcal vaccines. We are actively working with customers to help them navigate the reimbursement for Zostavax and expect this to be less of a hurdle over time.

Global Gardasil franchise sales grew this quarter on continued strength from Gardasil 9 launch in the US. We are encouraged by the recent CDC publication that reported a significant decrease in vaccine-type HPV prevalence since the introduction of HPV vaccinations in the United States. The reduction was 64% in females age 14 to 19, and 34% in females age 20 to 24. If you consider that this reports its impact only through 2012 and does not yet include males, it becomes apparent that we really can make a difference to help prevent certain HPV-related cancers in the United States.

Next in hospital and specialty care, our acute-care portfolio performed well in the quarter on steady growth from antibiotics, antifungals, and Bridion. We are also pleased to be adding to our specialty care business with the launch of Zepatier.

Sales in the first quarter were $50 million. While we're still early in the launch, we are seeing positive signs that Zepatier will play an important role in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C.

Our team is working to secure access for Zepatier, with conversations currently ongoing with many different public and private payers. The addition of Zepatier to the formulary at the Veterans Administration and with other customers reinforces our belief that our payer and our pricing strategy will maximize revenue and market share, and it will also broaden and accelerate patient access. Customers value Zepatier's profile, which offers high cure rates across a diverse group of patients, and we continue to be enthusiastic about the opportunity for Zepatier.

Finally, in oncology we see significant potential for Keytruda, which positions us as a global leader in immuno-oncology. In the first quarter sales reached approximately $250 million, and they continue to be driven by our melanoma indications as well as early traction in the US in lung cancer.

We are working to integrate PD-L1 testing as part of the routine treatment of lung cancer, by continuing to demonstrate the value testing brings to physicians, to payers, and to patients. Testing rates in the United States continue to increase, which is important not only for our second-line indication, but we believe also for when we have a first-line indication.

We also see very strong performance outside of the US, which represented nearly half of first-quarter Keytruda sales. We're launching in melanoma in approximately 50 markets globally, and in some markets we are the market leader despite being second to launch. Given the strong survival results we've demonstrated in melanoma and second-line lung cancer, the early data we've seen in more than 20 cancer types, as well as the breadth and the depth of the Keytruda development program, we remain confident that Keytruda will become foundational to the treatment of cancer over time.

In closing, we're off to a good start in 2016. This year we'll have to offset generic penetration of products including Nasonex and Cubicin. However, our investments in Januvia and Keytruda and in Zepatier and other core areas are delivering results and positioning us for future growth.

Now I'll turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP, PRESIDENT MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Adam. The momentum that our clinical development and regulatory groups established last year continues in 2016. I'll briefly review the highlights of the first quarter.

As has already been mentioned, beginning in January we obtained regulatory approval for Zepatier in Canada, the United States, and Switzerland. and speaking with hepatologists and infectious disease specialists, there is general enthusiasm for the high cure rates observed with Zepatier and the ability to use Zepatier in patients with compromised renal function, including patients undergoing hemodialysis.

Public health organizations are increasingly embracing the goal of large-scale elimination of hepatitis C infection, and we've been developing data -- some of which we presented at the liver meetings in Barcelona last month -- documenting the ability of Zepatier to assist in this process, including in very difficult-to-treat patients who suffer from opioid addiction.

As Adam indicated, we've successfully launched Zepatier in the United States and are seeking approval in many markets around the world. In the course of our European review for Zepatier, the European Medicines Agency cited Merck's third-party manufacturer for issues largely related to inadequate record-keeping and the need for improvement in their quality management systems. We're working assiduously with regulators to resolve these issues.

I should note that we do not believe that the problems identified at our third-party manufacturer affect the safety, efficacy, or quality specifications of the product, and we do not believe that these problems will affect the supply to the US market. Nevertheless, we take all matters related to good manufacturing practices very seriously, and we are working with regulatory agencies and the manufacturer to resolve these issues as expeditiously as possible.

We continue to believe that EU approval can be achieved according to the midyear timeline that we previously disclosed. However, our European launch will be delayed until the fourth quarter, or perhaps until the end of the first quarter of 2017, depending on how quickly these matters can be resolved.

While the registration process with Zepatier continues, we are also completing Phase 2b studies of MK-3682, our uridinyl nucleoside polymerase inhibitor when used in combination with Zepatier or in combination with another advanced NS5A inhibitor, MK-8408. Data from these studies which will emerge over the next few months will permit definitive selection of the appropriate registration-enabling regimens that will provide additional options for the estimated 150 million people around the world who are infected with hepatitis C virus.

During the first quarter our studies of Keytruda also advanced significantly. In April we announced that FDA has accepted our filing on a priority review basis for the use of Keytruda in patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer following platinum-based chemotherapy, with a PDUFA date in early August. This filing makes use of unit dosing at 200 milligrams every three weeks. We have shown that this dose yields exposures comparable to those observed using weight-based dosing; and unit dosing obviously relieves providers of the responsibility of calculating patient-specific dose volumes.

Our head and neck cancer filing is reinforced by an exceptionally broad array of ongoing studies in this disease, including a controlled second-line study, the KEYNOTE-040 study; our first-line study, KEYNOTE-048, which will provide data in 2017. We're also testing the use of Keytruda in combination with irradiation, with radiation plus chemotherapy, with the T-VEC oncolytic virus in collaboration with our colleagues at Amgen, and with an IDO1 inhibitor in collaboration with our colleagues at Incyte. A substantial amount of important new data from our Keytruda program will be presented at the American Society for Clinical Oncology meeting next month, including results in head and neck cancer patients who have failed both platinum and cetuximab therapy, and long-term survival data in melanoma patients from our original KEYNOTE-001 study.

Also in April we announced that the FDA granted a fourth Breakthrough Designation for Keytruda in the treatment of classical Hodgkin's lymphoma. As Margaret Shipp and colleagues from the Dana-Farber Cancer Research Center showed in a paper published last month in the Journal of Clinical Oncology, amplification of the chromosomal locus encoding both PD-L1 and PD-L2 ligands is very common in Hodgkin's lymphoma and may represent a critical factor in the malignant transformation of Reed-Sternberg cells, the characteristic cell type in this cancer. This observation may help to explain why the very high response rates following Keytruda treatment in Hodgkin's lymphoma patients are observed.

Meanwhile we continue to pursue registration for Keytruda in second-line lung cancer in Europe, and our KEYNOTE-010 study, which will improve understanding of how best to use Keytruda in this disease, is under review in the United States. You will recall that in the KEYNOTE-010 trial, Keytruda treatment meaningfully improved overall survival in patients with non-small cell lung cancer of any histology, where tumors expressed the PD-L1 biomarker in 1% or more of the tumor cells, as compared to what could be achieved using conventional docetaxel chemotherapy.

Our first-line study of Keytruda, KEYNOTE-024, comparing Keytruda treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy in patients with PD-L1 strongly positive tumors, remains on track to deliver data at midyear.

Finally, progress continues across a broad range of other programs. Bezlotoxumab, our therapy designed to reduce recurrences of C. difficile- associated enterocolitis, received Priority Review designation from the FDA with a PDUFA date in July. The FDA will hold an Advisory Committee meeting to review the bezlotoxumab filing on June 9, and our file is also under review in the European Union.

Clinical data are beginning to emerge for ertugliflozin which will support our comprehensive filing for this new molecular entity as both a single agent and in combination with Januvia or metformin by the end of the year. Separately the long-awaited adjudication of our Phase 3 odanacatib data is now almost complete. With these data in hand, we will at last be in a position to assemble regulatory dossiers supporting the registration of this important once-weekly treatment for osteoporosis.

And among the many programs for which considerable interest is expressed when I meet with external clinicians and scientists is our Phase 3 trial studying letermovir as prophylaxis for cytomegalovirus activation in patients receiving bone marrow transplants. We expect that data in-house from this study by the end of the third quarter.

Now I'll turn the call over to Teri.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Roger. Darla, I think we're ready to go to Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Geoff Meacham, Barclays.

GEOFF MEACHAM, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Morning, guys. Thanks for the question. Just on Zepatier, wonder if you can go into a little bit more detail about where you are with the commercial formularies and what opportunities you have to expand that prior to the cycle next year.

Then also on hep C, on next-gen regimens, how much value do you guys place on a shorter four-week regimen in terms of a differentiation in the market? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Geoff; this is Adam, and I'll start off with the update on Zepatier regarding how we're doing in the marketplace. I'll start by saying we really are pleased with the progress that we're making since the launch. We're still early in the launch, but we have been working really hard to secure access, and we have conversations ongoing across all segments, many different customers.

Many of them are for access in 2017, but some of those, such as the VA, we're hoping to have access some time in 2016. So it's still a little bit too early to give you exact accounts and names of accounts, but I can tell you that we feel good about potential access for 2017; and then we'll see where we end up for 2016, but I do think that there is opportunity there.

Then if you look at how we're approaching the marketplace, we really are focusing on having access. It's important that we have parity with the competitors, so we're spending a lot of time trying to get -- access that parity across the different segments in the United States so that there is physician and patient choice.

TERI LOXAM: Roger, do you want to answer the (multiple speakers)?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Well, I think with respect to shorter regimens, we'd love to be in a position to provide treatment that would massively shorten the regimen, because adherence is a problem in this patient population. Many patients who are infected with hepatitis C lead somewhat chaotic lives.

Unfortunately, I think there is really very little data to support the use of an oral direct-acting antiviral regimen in four weeks, and there are reasons to be concerned that that might not be possible. Over time, additional advances and other approaches which could, for example, involved long-duration implantable therapies and that sort of thing, could improve that. And there are, of course, other kinds of intervention, for example at the transcription level, that could help that.

But right now, four weeks seems like a reach.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you so much. A question for Dr. Perlmutter. All companies are analyzing I-O data with the FDA-required Cox stratified proportional hazard statistical test. However, Bristol implies that it analyzes I-O data in a unique way which emphasizes the non-proportional aspect of the I-O curve; and I guess in support of their view they have stopped more studies early than any other company.

It is also true that Bristol studies generally are longer than competitor studies. Does Merck understand what Bristol is doing? Does Merck believe it is doing the same thing? And if not, how is what Merck is doing different? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Hey, Steve. There is no mystery here really. The mechanisms for statistical analysis of these kinds of studies have been refined over a period of many decades, and while the statistical literature continues to advance in ways that are quite intriguing, the reality is that we have a lot of data -- based on all of the prior studies that we've done with Keytruda, and with Opdivo, the studies that are been done and published with Opdivo as well -- that provide a substantial amount of positive predictive value. So in a Bayesian sense, one can predict outcomes fairly comfortably and we know, therefore, we can put that information into our power calculations.

We have pretty good understanding of where we're going and when we have to look. Of course, you can get surprises in different tumor types. But I guess one thing to stress is the general consistency of the responses that we've seen across a very large number of tumor types, both with respect to response rates and durability.

So we don't find it mysterious. I think the explanation for the early stopping of the Bristol-Myers studies is largely related to the size of the studies more than anything else, and there's nothing special about non-proportional analyses.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thank you. On Keytruda, obviously you and Bristol will both have first-line data this year in lung, and that is in patients that need to be tested for the biomarker. Bristol, of course, points out that their testing encompasses a much greater proportion of patients than your testing.

I'm wondering how you see that playing out commercially. Won't it be an advantage in their favor, the fact that it will be applicable to more patients? Do you think that's going to make a difference?

Then, what were sales of Keytruda in the quarter in lung? So what proportion of sales were in lung?

And then, were there any wholesaler shifts or timing impact of purchasing that could have impacted what the results were? If I look at US sales they were flat versus Q4; internationally they continue to ramp. Is that reflective of demand in both geographies, or it was some timing issues?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes. Hi, Tim; this is Adam. If you look at Keytruda, as you said, we reported about $250 million of sales for the quarter, so we are now trending -- if you just look -- at about a billion-dollar product, just based on where we are today.

About half the sales were outside the US, half the sales in the US, and we continued to see growth in the US. There's really not inventory issues at any large degree for this product, frankly.

If you look at where sales are coming from, the vast majority of the sales are still coming from melanoma indications. And if you look at that, a lot of it is still coming in second-line, although we see first-line continuing to grow.

Internationally, the sales are coming primarily, obviously, from our melanoma indication.

As you start to think about lung, we are seeing increases in the number of physicians that are testing patients now. A lot of those increases are actually coming from patients with first-line lung being tested. So the fact that we continue to encourage testing, I believe, is only going to help us ultimately when we launch in first-line lung.

Then the first thing that you want to do is you want to see who gets to market first, and I think that that always matters. So let's see who gets to market first in first-line lung, and that will be an important milestone.

Secondarily, as you said, we have to see what the cutoff points are. But in addition to that, even with cutoff points, we also have to see what the guidelines say and how the reimbursement works.

So I feel pretty good about where we are today. I feel optimistic about first-line lung. I can tell you I'm thrilled that we're only one of two PD-1s in the marketplace today, and I think that sets us up for very good growth in the future.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Morning and thanks for taking the questions. Maybe just switching to anacetrapib, can you update us on your level of optimism for the CV outcomes study in light of the data we saw for Lilly's evacetrapib?

And can you perhaps comment on the baseline HDL of the enrolled population, at least relative to Lilly's ACCELERATE study, since this is potentially an important consideration for the realization of a treatment effect? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Hey, Colin; it's Roger. My feeling about the anacetrapib study really isn't much changed. We knew, of course, about Lilly's evacetrapib study; it's nice to have the data now in much more detail.

The differences between the two studies have been discussed in terms of the patient populations that were enrolled and in terms of the duration of the studies, which -- the follow-up duration is important since you do expect that as you manipulate lipid profiles the effects should accrue over time. That's probably the biggest impact.

I think that when we look at this, because of the dramatic lowering in LDL cholesterol, the dramatic increase in HDL cholesterol, the changes in Lp(a), the expectation is that patients who are receiving anacetrapib should do better in terms of major cardiovascular events. That's what we're testing.

It's a 30,000 patients study, and we're going to have the data next year and we'll have a chance to look and see. We're approaching the end of the treatment period. And at some point the clouds will part and the sun will shine and we'll have a chance to see what the landscape looks like.

At the moment, there is no point in speculating. The study is nearly complete.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, folks. Thanks for taking the questions. Apologies if I missed this, but did the extra calendar days in 1Q benefit the quarter in any way?

And Adam, do you think that PD-L1 testing will be restricted to a specific test by treatment? Or do you anticipate that it will basically be at the discretion of the labs and that we will eventually see that the labs basically concentrate towards one that's a preferred one -- arguably the more sensitive test? Thank you.

ROB DAVIS: Good morning, Alex; this is Rob. To your question on the impact of the days of sales, we did see some benefit from that impact in the US, but it was largely offset by channel. So it did not materially change our results.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And with respect to PD-L1 testing, first of all, what we're seeing is that PD-L1 testing is not specified in the label of the products for any certain test. It just says if you have a PD-L1 positive patient in the label. So therefore it doesn't matter what test the lab uses in order to designate whether the test is PD-L1 positive or not.

I don't think that is going to change. I think it will be up to the labs to decide which testing that they use and then how they determine it to be positive or not.

I think they're two other points that are important. First of all, we're already seeing about 30% of patients with lung being tested, and about 70% of those are in first-line.

The other thing that's important is that when patients are being tested, if it's positive right now the vast majority of those patients are going to Keytruda. So therefore I do think that the testing, irrespective of what test they use, is occurring more often and actually over time could be helpful.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. A few questions. Ken, first to you, I was intrigued that in your press release you highlighted business development as a high priority. If you'll recall, at our CEO conference back in January you highlighted your high priority to complete deals being more aggressive this year, moving up the risk curve.

Can you provide a little bit more granularity as to specifically what you're looking for? Clearly we've seen a major derating of valuations of biotech stocks; yet we haven't really seen any motion or rumors or anything out of Merck.

What are you looking for specifically? Are they late-stage assets? Are they early-stage assets? What compelled you to highlight that early on in your press release? That's my first question.

Second questions are for you, Roger; and Adam, if you want to comment. There's been a lot of focus on this call today on monotherapy. Obviously we -- first-line lung monotherapy. But our expectation is that monotherapy is rapidly going to move to combination therapy. As you know, oncologists believe that the best way to treat cancer is with cocktail or combination therapy.

Clearly your competitors have all pursued combinations either with I-O/I-O or chemo combo. So just, you have pursued a monotherapy strategy and are behind the curve on combination. What is your strategy to catch up?

Then just as a corollary to that question, the market wisdom is that you have to own a combination to speed them to market. What is your strategy to do that? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: Jami, thanks for the question. Let me start by saying what I was trying to say earlier this year and what I'm saying today are exactly the same thing. We feel it's very important for us to access the best external innovation, and we're very actively engaged with companies that we think have good science. You haven't seen the deals come through quite yet, but that doesn't mean that we're not very, very much engaged in active discussions with those companies.

You mentioned the issue around valuation. I think that a lot of those companies are looking at the current stock prices and trying to decide whether those are indicative of where they're going to be in the future. So I think those boards and those management teams are going through the process of letting the new reality, if you will, settle in with them.

But from our perspective I guess what I was trying to highlight is, first of all, we have a strong balance sheet and we can go after deals across the whole spectrum: early, middle, and late-stage compounds. And we will look for those deals consistent with good science and financial discipline.

So we want to be aggressive in going after deals, but we want to do deals that create value for our shareholders.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Right. And Jami, on the general approach to how one treats cancer, I actually don't agree with your assessment of our strategy, so let me try and reinterpret it a little bit for you.

First of all, what I've always said was in order to understand the benefits of combination therapy you have to understand how monotherapy behaves. We launched a very broad program in monotherapy with more than 30 different tumor types in many lines of therapy. But we've not shorted the combination studies. If you look on clinicaltrials.gov right now, about something over 270 studies on clinicaltrials.gov with Keytruda is -- I haven't checked today -- but more than 100 of those are combination studies.

They include studies that are potentially registration enabling. If you look at the KEYNOTE-189 study, for example, which will be delivering data next year in combination with chemotherapy, in addition to, of course, combination with chemotherapy data that we've already presented, there is quite a lot going on in combinations.

We have combinations with radiation therapy, combinations with immunotherapies, combinations with traditional chemotherapies, and combinations with targeted chemotherapies. In addition we have in the clinic GITR, LAG-3, IL-10, and cCAM, which are our own Phase 1 programs that provide immuno-oncology molecules that could potentially be used in combination.

So in totality we had a very, very broad of combination program which includes both things that we own and things that either shouldn't be owned -- because they're in essence generic -- or that we're doing in collaborations with others. For example, in the IDO program we're both collaborating with Incyte and we have our own programs that we own as well. So a lot of work going on in combination.

Our goal absolutely is to identify the very best possible regimens from the many thousands that you and I have discussed previously, the many thousands of regimens that potentially would employ in treating cancer patients.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Jami, the thing I would add -- so Roger and myself and our teams work very closely identifying potential combinations and uses. With regard to having to own them all, I don't think you have to -- particularly if they can't be combined into a similar dosage form or have the same type of dosing regimen.

I get asked that all the time in diabetes for many years, where people said: Don't you have to have an insulin and a GLP-1 for Januvia to be successful? We've shown that Januvia can be successful even if we don't have some of those combinations.

It doesn't mean that we don't want a GLP-1 potentially or other types of diabetes medicines, but we look at those as their own opportunities.

At the same time, the reason that we think the combination of our SGLT2 with Januvia can be successful is because you can put them into one tablet with the same dosing regimen. So that's the way we look at the combinations, and I think that our strategy is a good one.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

AMLIN SELVERAJA, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, this is [Amlin Selveraja] on behalf of Andrew at Citi. Thanks for taking the question. I have just one left. How does the pricing and rebate dynamic on your biosimilars work between you and your partners?

More specifically, does Merck have the ultimate decision? Or can some(inaudible) drive the list price? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, this is Adam. If you look at Europe for the pricing and rebates on biosimilars, it's determined by the Merck team and our European team. What we've done is we've been very successful competing for patients that are on existing therapy; but we have lost many new patient starts, hence you see a decline year-over-year for Remicade, and we expect that that decline will continue over time.

But what we see right now is that existing patients are able to maintain on therapy in many of the European markets.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Guggenheim Securities.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM PARTNERS: Yes, thanks very much. Roger, back to an earlier comment you made on IDO, I wanted to explore IOmet and the acquisition and the rationale for that, relative to what you had with your partner and where you're going in melanoma. I assume only with IOmet you're thinking about a broader set of tumors. Was that the rationale?

Second, Rob, to generic mometasone, for Nasonex, how much pressure does that put on your gross margin? And more importantly, because that's a reasonably large product, would your tax rate not actually see a benefit because of the change earlier than you would have expected, or is it just marginal? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Tony, thanks for the question. On IOmet, we have data that we have presented in the IDO1 inhibitor from Incyte in combination with Keytruda that is very suggestive with regard to a treatment effect in melanoma. And one of the good things about it is that the adverse experience profile for the combination of the IDO1 inhibitor along with Keytruda really looks very favorable.

With that in mind, we wanted to explore more fully the landscape of IDO1 and TDO1 inhibitors. We had an opportunity with IOmet to gain access to actually quite a large set of starting materials and new chemistry, which enables us to think about how we would design an optimal molecule that could be used in a whole variety of different tumor types.

We have a very good collaborative relationship with Incyte, and we're eager to see those programs advance just as quickly as possible for the benefit of patients. But we think there is some running room as well and an opportunity for us to use our chemical insights potentially to improve treatment regimens in that regard, and that was the driving force behind it.

ROB DAVIS: With regards to your question about generic Nasonex, if you look at Nasonex, it is a high gross margin product for us, but it does have a fair bit of discounting. So it will be a slight drag in the back part of the year to our gross margin, but it was fully reflected in the guidance we gave on gross margin.

As you look at the tax rate, this really has no meaningful impact to our tax rate, to speak of.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks very much; I just had two quick ones here. One, just coming back to business development, I think you used the term bolt-on acquisitions in your release. Can you just help us understand a little bit how large a deal could be and still considered to be a bolt-on for Merck?

I guess, for example, would Cubist or something a bit larger have been considered a bolt-on? Or should we think about Merck targeting some smaller transactions here?

My second question was on Zepatier and just the HCV marketplace in general. I think one of your competitors cited some pricing pressures in the space emerging again this year. How do you see the pricing environment evolving over time with three main players in the space?

I guess specifically, should we think about price continuing to erode here over time, where you'll get more access but we should think about a downward trend on price overall? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: Starting on the business development question -- thanks, Chris. When I talk about bolt-on acquisitions I think I'm not signaling anything specific with respect to size of the deal any more than I was earlier with the stage of development. We want to find the best assets at the best valuation to help us grow our pipeline going forward.

So I guess what I'm signaling is I'm not focused on a large consolidation-type merger such as we have seen in the industry in the past. But I also think that bolt-on acquisitions can be larger than, for example, a Cubist.

It depends on what the company brings, what their pipeline brings, what level of scientific innovation they have internally, and how we believe it can complement our portfolio and pipeline going forward.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Chris, this is Adam. As we look at the hepatitis C market we continue to be optimistic about our potential within the market. I think that price will continue to be under pressure over time in this market.

But despite that, I think the lower prices have expanded access to some degree. I think a good example of that is the VA and their removal of the fibrosis score restrictions.

So there will continue to be price pressure in the marketplace. We will continue, as I said before, to try to get parity access, but we have to see where our competition and where the payers go. The more they try to push for restricted access or exclusive formularies, we have to watch that closely.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks for the questions. A couple of quick questions. Just Roger, can you clarify the update on Zepatier in the EU with regard to the manufacturing issues that you mentioned? Just I think I missed a little bit of the facts there.

The second question, again, Roger, you mentioned a number of internally developed assets and collaborations. Can you talk a little bit about GITR? We're hearing and seeing a lot of additional companies pursue this target; enthusiasm amongst thought leaders is building. But there are questions about this target, as to whether or not, A, it's an agonist at all, and also how efficiently one can actually develop antibodies to this target.

My last question is for the team overall. In terms of the areas of greatest interest for business development, should we anticipate that your focus is mostly on oncology specifically? Or how broadly and what areas are of greatest interest to you on the BD side? Thanks.

TERI LOXAM: Why don't we start with Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes. Seamus, just to reiterate that in the course of our European review, the European Medicines Agency cited Merck's third-party manufacturer for issues that were largely related to inadequate record-keeping and the need for improvement in their quality management systems.

The problems do not affect -- we do not believe -- the safety, efficacy, or quality specifications of the product; and hence we don't believe the problems will affect the supply to the US market. But we take these good manufacturing practice issues very seriously, and we're working with both regulatory agencies and the contract manufacturer to resolve the issues as expeditiously as possible.

Secondly, with respect to GITR, as you know, our program has been in the clinic for quite some time, but we have been advancing it very slowly because of concerns on our part, on the part of regulators, too. We share these concerns that an antagonist antibody could stimulate a fairly profound immune activation response, and those responses can be difficult to manage.

So we're just getting to the point in advancing that program where we believe we're in the therapeutic range. We certainly do have data that our anti-GITR antibody behaves as an agonist. I think one of the issues has to do with cross-linking and which Fc receptors are engaged by the therapy.

As you know, we have two GITR antibodies that are in the clinic. There is a lot of enthusiasm in the community; but it will be some time I think before we understand whether, to what extent, GITR antibodies will be useful.

ROB DAVIS: Seamus, maybe I can just add on the comment around Zepatier. I think it's also important to understand that was fully reflected in our guidance. In fact, just to give you a little bit more color, as you look at Zepatier in particular, thinking about roughly where consensus is now -- which ranges, but let's say it's around $650 million -- we're very comfortable with that and, as I said, was reflected in our guidance. I just wanted to make sure we get that out there.

TERI LOXAM: Do you want to comment on the BD, Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Sure, sure. Thanks. I think as we look at BD, we look at it in two different ways. First of all, obviously, we're very eager to build on areas of leadership like immuno-oncology. You saw us do deals, for example with cCAM Biotherapeutics. You saw us do the deal earlier with IOmet that we talked about.

So we'd like to build on those areas where we already have leadership. But it's also important for us not to be too blinded to the fact that there is important science going on in other areas.

So what we want to look for are significant opportunities to have leading positions in growing areas of therapeutic significance going forward. Obviously immuno-oncology would be one leading area, but we are also willing to do business development if we think we can get an asset that we can leverage inside our portfolio for a leadership position.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Hi, thanks very much taking my question. I wonder if you can just give us an update on your insulin glargine program. We were maybe expecting to see your pivotal data coming up at that program, perhaps a filing later this year; so an update there would be useful.

And then we get a lot of commentary from your competitor on how entrenched the use of nivolumab is amongst particular lung cancer oncologists. That would seem to be the case from the commercial data you're giving us in Q1 versus their data.

Could you just go through in a bit more detail why you think that isn't going to be a barrier for you in first-line lung cancer, given the relatively close potential timing of the launches? And if it is more of a barrier than you think, what could you possibly do to change to that? Thank you very much.

TERI LOXAM: Roger, you want to start with this one?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: With respect to glargine insulin you'll be seeing data later in the year. We're filed in Europe and going through the process of gaining approval for that MK-1293 molecule. Probably not much more to add, I think, to that.

ADAM SCHECHTER: if you look at Keytruda, the first thing I'd say is right now we're the ones that have to talk about PD-L1 testing for second-line therapy and we're the ones that are training physicians and getting physicians to understand the utilization of PD-L1 testing. When you think about first-line lung, all competitors will be talking about PD-L1 testing, so I believe that barrier will go away because all of us together will be talking about it.

The other thing that I think is important is, if the playing field is equal in lung and all else is close, every three week dosing is an advantage versus competition. Therefore I think that the dosing for first-line lung patients could end up being an advantage for us if PD-L1 testing is communicated by all companies.

But the other thing I want to emphasize, as I've said all along, this is a long-term view of this market. There will be multiple competitors that can do really well in this market. I don't think we should look at any one quarter or short period of time.

This market over the next several years, with the number of tumor types that we're studying, with the amount of -- how well that we're continuing to develop combination products, we can continue to do really well.

The last thing I'll say is that if you look at Europe, in countries in Europe we actually came to market after competition. And in many markets, including big markets like Germany in melanoma, despite that we now are the market leader.

So I believe it shows our strength outside of the US, where I believe PD-L1 testing will be even more relevant and accepted by payers than potentially in the US for second-line.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. I have a couple questions. First, with respect to the timing of the upcoming first-line lung readout, Roger, I think you mentioned at the middle of the year. But could you just talk a little bit more about more specifically the timing that you expect, and the factors that you are assessing to be able to convey that timing?

Then with respect to ASCO, could you just talk a little bit about the chemo combo data that you'll be conveying? Obviously, it will be longer-duration data that supports your move into Phase 3 for the chemo combo; if you could shed some light on that.

Then finally with respect to Remicade biosimilar adoption, obviously Remicade is an infused drug used by hospitals and clinics. Do you believe that that route of administration and those customers have been more inclined to adopt biosimilars than the marketplace would be for a self-injectable therapy? Thank you.

TERI LOXAM: Roger, you want to (multiple speakers)?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Right, let me start with respect to the KEYNOTE-024 study, the first line-study in PD-L1 high patients in lung cancer. Again it's important to recognize that this is an event-driven trial.

They have about 300 patients that are enrolled in the study. There is -- we powered the study based on a certain number of progression events. Progression-free survival is the primary endpoint.

So it's actually just a question of when we hit the event number. From the time we hit the event number to the time we get to database lock involves holding the sites and there a variety of questions that have to be answered. And then once the database is locked, the statistical analysis takes relatively little time.

So we're not -- there are no other factors that go into this. We're not in any way manipulating it. We're just waiting until we hit this prespecified event trigger which defines the power for the study; and once that's available, then we'll be able to do that.

Just with respect to ASCO, since you mentioned it -- I didn't have a chance to go into it -- but there's going to be a lot of new material presented at ASCO. We have 84 currently abstracts, including 13 oral presentations, that will be presented at ASCO. We're going to be discussing from 20 different tumor types.

We'll have additional data that we'd be presenting with respect to chemo combinations. In particular, the data that comes from the KEYNOTE-021 study which is combinations with traditional chemotherapy, carbo, pemetrexed, where overall response rates are really very high, nearly 60%. So there's a lot of information that will be communicated at ASCO.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Dave, with regard to Remicade biosimilar adoption, I think it has more to do with price differences for new patients in tenders than it does with the way in which the drugs are administered. So I wouldn't expect a very significant difference.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi. Good morning; thanks so much for taking my questions. I just have one on the guidance, just to clarify on the sales side. I believe you said you went from a 3% negative headwind on sales from FX to a 2% negative headwind. I think that was about a $400 million benefit; but you only raised the midpoint of your guidance by about $100 million.

So wonder if you could just confirm that I have the facts straight. And if so, what is that's bringing down sales guidance by about $300 million, if you take out the impact of the currency moves?

Then the second question I have is on Alzheimer's. I would love to just get Merck's perspective on this. There's obviously been a lot of discussion around endpoints with the changes Lilly made recently to the solanezumab study.

I know for yours, for your BACE inhibitor in prodromal you have CDR, sum of the boxes as your primary, I believe, in the prodromal study, in the mild to moderate, you have ADAS-cog and ADCS-ADL as co-primary. So if you could just talk through those endpoints and how you think about the pros and cons of each in the different patient populations, I think that would be helpful, just given all the investor interest in that area. Thanks.

ROB DAVIS: Yes, Vamil, this is Rob. Good morning. To your question, you are correct that, as we said, original guidance at the beginning of the year, we expected a 3 percentage point negative impact from foreign currency. Using the mid-April rates, we now expect for the full year an approximately negative 2 percentage points of impact from foreign currency.

As you look at the guidance we provided, we flowed part of that benefit through in the guidance, but not all of it. The single largest reason we did not flow all of it is the fact that we face earlier than expected generic entry on Nasonex, which is the largest driver of the number you quoted.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, and Vamil, it's Roger. With respect to Alzheimer's endpoints, of course there's been a lot of discussion over a long period of time about how best to measure the deterioration that occurs as a result of Alzheimer's-related neurodegeneration. They're at least two different things to be concerned about.

One, of course, is direct measurement of cognitive function by whatever tools one has, typically things like mental status examination. The other is the functional capability of individuals who are unfortunately suffering from Alzheimer's.

Typically the Agency has asked to see both of those things assessed directly, and often in a primary endpoint as a composite endpoint in clinical trials. It is possible, of course, to do that seriatum and take a single endpoint.

Our view with respect to mild to moderate is that the best strategy is to look at both of those aspects of Alzheimer's-related performance, and that's the way we've handled it. We understand Lilly's thinking with respect to their earlier study, and we continue to look at these questions. But at the moment I think we feel comfortable with where we are with our endpoints.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Roger. Darla, I know we're hitting up against the top of the hour. We're going to try and squeeze in one more question.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Morning. Emerging markets, we see the numbers in the press release. Can you give us a little more flavor on what's going on in the different areas, China, Latin America? How is it doing ex-Venezuela?

Eastern Europe looked tough. How much of this is currency and how much of this is just underlying stuff?

And then can you just comment on the omarigliptin? I thought I had read that you're not going to be pursuing this in the US and Europe; if you could just comment on that.

On the Januvia, were there any inventory changes? It wasn't clear from your comments. Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes. I'll get those quickly. If you exclude Venezuela, sales in emerging markets ex-foreign exchange were up about 5%, and we're seeing good growth in countries like China, where we had about 11% growth outside of foreign exchange. We're seeing good success in the areas of vaccines, our diabetes franchise, and so forth.

Where the pressure was primarily was Venezuela. But obviously there is some turmoil that is happening in some markets, particularly in the Middle East, that have some impact.

If you look at emerging markets over time, there's been a slight decline in growth, but we still expect there to be growth as we report into the future.

With regard to Januvia, I said in the US we had 9% growth versus prior year. But the best way to understand that is to look at underlying volume growth, which was about 5% versus prior year. Therefore we did see some inventory movement of Januvia.

It's important to note that, just like last year, the quarters will fluctuate to some degree from one quarter to the next quarter. But overall across the year we expect growth for the Januvia franchise.

Then the last thing I'll say is with regard to omarigliptin, for business reasons we decided not to move forward submitting the applications in the United States or Europe. It did not result from concerns on efficacy or safety. It was really for business reasons, for two primary reasons.

Number one, we have a very high share of Januvia in those markets, so a lot of the product would've been cannibalizing our own DPP-4 share. We have a 75% share in the US and a 65% share globally.

The second reason is we're excited about launching not just the monotherapy SGLT2 but also the combination of an SGLT2 with Januvia, which we would have anticipated would be launched not too far after omarigliptin. And in order to focus more on growing Januvia, but then also the SGLT2 mono and more specifically the combo with Januvia we thought was a better place for us to focus.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: If I could, I'd just say that this was a very hard decision for Adam and me. Omarigliptin has very desirable properties as a once-weekly DPP-4, nearly superimposable over daily Januvia. But as Adam indicated, these decisions have to be made by putting our resources against those things that matter most.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. I just want to thank you all for hanging in there with us this morning. We're off to a promising start this year with our growth of 3% ex-FX. I think we also continued to deliver our leveraged P&L with 10% FX on the bottom line, and we are looking forward to data readouts in areas like Keytruda and other areas of our pipeline. So we're very excited and we look forward to speaking to you soon.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Merck's Q1 2016 sales and earnings conference call. You may now disconnect your lines.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
iinsulin : Diabetes Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty : Specialized Drugs/Medications | ihormp : Hormone Products
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160506ec550021o
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,221 words
   PD
3 February 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Darla and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q4 and full-year 2015 sales and earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Teri Loxam.

TERI LOXAM, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Darla. Good morning everyone. Welcome to Merck's fourth-quarter 2015 conference call. Today I am joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rob Davis, our Chief Financial Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Labs.

Before I turn the call over to Ken, I want to point out a couple of items. First, you will see that we have items in our GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provided a reconciliation of these items in table 2 of our press release. We have also provided a table to help you understand the sales results in the quarter for the business units and products, which can be found in table 3 of the press release.

Second, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Our SEC filings, including item 1A in the 2014 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. And you can see our SEC filing as well as today's earnings release on Merck.com.

With that I'd like to turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Teri. Good morning. Thank you all for joining the call today. 2015 was a year of considerable progress and execution for Merck. We continued to focus on the most exciting scientific and commercial opportunities in front of us, advancing our pipeline, securing new product approvals and launching expanded indications for key products.

I'm pleased that our operating performance across our research and commercial organization, including rigorous cost management, enabled us to exceed our EPS commitments in 2015. Despite strong currency headwinds, we were able to deliver growth in 2015 and we expect to deliver growth again in 2016. In fact, 2016 represents the first year in several years in which Merck's new product sales growth, driven primarily by Zepatier, our new hepatitis C product, and Keytruda, are expected to contribute meaningfully above the impact of the products that are losing exclusivity.

To ensure continued progress it is imperative that we remain focused on three priorities. First, we must innovate across all aspects of our business so that we can pursue and deliver the most promising medical breakthroughs. Second, we must execute in our labs and in our markets around the world to deliver results by prioritizing resources to the highest growth areas, key markets and customers. And, finally, we must adapt our culture and business model to evolve as the world changes around us. Specifically this includes driving the success of our key inline brands, including Januvia, launching new indications for Keytruda in more tumor types, and launching Zepatier which received approval from the FDA just last week.

We also anticipate several important pipeline catalysts this year, which Roger will discuss in more detail shortly. Augmenting our pipeline with the best scientific and medical innovations also remains a key priority for us, and we are eager to continue to aggressively seek attractive external opportunities that can further bolster our scientific leadership, while complementing the current assets in our pipeline.

In closing, in 2016 we will build upon the strong foundation we established last year. We will continue to invest resources to launch and grow our strongest brands, support the most promising internal assets, enhance our pipeline with the best available external science, and maintain a balanced and differentiated portfolio, all with the goal of delivering long-term growth and shareholder value.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to my colleague, Rob Davis.

ROB DAVIS, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Ken. Good morning, everyone. As Ken referenced, 2015 reflected another solid year of operational performance at Merck. We delivered full-year revenues of $39.5 billion, which was in the upper part of our original guidance range despite a slightly higher than expected foreign exchange impact for the year. In addition, as a result of our continued focus on transforming our business model, we were able to deliver full-year non-GAAP EPS of $3.59, $0.12 higher than the upper end of our original 2015 guidance range. We also returned over $9 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.

This strong performance was driven by our continued focus on prioritizing resources to our highest growth areas, and reducing net costs by more than $2.5 billion versus 2012, while investing in key inline brands including Januvia, maximizing launches such as Keytruda, and strategically investing in R&D and business development to drive a pipeline that will deliver long-term results. Now let me turn to some specifics for the fourth quarter, and my remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials.

In the fourth quarter we delivered a leveraged P&L with growth excluding exchange on both the top and bottom lines. Total Company revenues were $10.2 billion in the quarter, a decrease of 3% year over year, including 7 percentage points of negative impact from foreign exchange. Excluding the impact of exchange, fourth-quarter revenues grew 4%. It's worth mentioning that approximately $110 million of our foreign exchange impact on revenues in the quarter was due to a devaluation of our operations in Venezuela, where we began using the SIMADI rate in the fourth quarter. Given the current and expected conditions in that market we anticipate continuing to use the SIMADI rate for our P&L in 2016.

In addition to solid results for global human health in the quarter, which Adam will discuss in a few minutes, the animal health business also had a good quarter, with sales growing at 8% excluding exchange. Sales of companion animal products, let by Bravecto, as well as swine products, accounted for the majority of the growth.

Turning to the other parts of the P&L, non-GAAP gross margin was 74.8% in the quarter, an increase of 20 basis points year over year. Full-year gross margin increased 150 basis points to 75.4%. Lower discards and foreign exchange drove the overall improvement in margin percentage. We continued to manage expenses in Q4, with decreases in both marketing and administrative costs as well as R&D, as operational efficiencies more than offset our investments supporting key products and new launches. On a full-year basis we delivered operating expenses in line with our guidance with meaningful savings in marketing and administrative expenses more than offsetting modest increases in R&D.

Our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 16.4%, resulting in a full-year tax rate of 21.7%. The quarterly and full year rates reflect the benefit from the renewal of the R&D tax credit. Taken together we earned $0.93 per share on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter, delivering 13% growth, excluding exchange, on the bottom line and significant P&L leverage.

Now let's turn to guidance and our outlook for 2016. Given the continued strength of the US dollar against virtually all other currencies, we anticipate foreign exchange will have a meaningful impact again in 2016. We expect revenues to be $38.7 billion to $40.2 billion using mid-January exchange rates, which reflects an approximately 3 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange. Excluding the impact of exchange, we expect low to mid single-digit revenue growth in 2016 as new product launches more than offset the impact from generic and biosimilar competition. Our guidance range also assumes negligible revenues from Venezuela compared to $625 million in the full year 2015.

We expect non-GAAP EPS to be $3.60 to $3.75, which also reflects an approximately 4 percentage point negative impact from foreign currency at mid January rates. 2016 EPS growth would be in the mid to high single-digits excluding the impact of exchange. On a GAAP basis we expect to earn between $1.96 and $2.23. Our non-GAAP EPS guidance assumes 2016 product gross margin will be roughly flat compared to 2015. In addition, we expect operating expenses to be generally in line with prior year. We will continue to invest in direct selling and promotion to support new product launches, while reducing administrative expenses as we continue to focus our operating model.

We remain committed to delivering a leveraged P&L and we will monitor our new launches and key products throughout the year and flex resources, as appropriate. Regarding tax, we expect the full-near non-GAAP tax rate in the range of 21.5% to 22.5%, which includes the benefit from the recently renewed R&D tax credit. Finally, we project average diluted shares outstanding of 2.78 billion for 2016, reflecting a decrease versus the prior year as we continue our share repurchase program. The fourth quarter was a strong finish to a solid year of execution. We expect this momentum to continue into 2016 as we further innovate in our labs, invest behind our launches, and continue our focus on disciplined resource allocation and continuous productivity to deliver a leveraged P&L and shareholder returns.

Now I will turn the call over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER, PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Rob. Good morning, everyone. This morning I will provide highlights on global human health performance for the fourth quarter and for the full year of 2015. My comments will be on a constant currency basis.

Total sales reached $34.8 billion in 2015, reflecting growth of 4%. In our fourth quarter sales reached $9 billion and also grew 4%. Excluding Cubist and divestitures, human health sales grew 2% in 2015.

Moving now to priority franchise updates. I'll start with the Januvia franchise. The Januvia franchise grew 7% in 2015 driven primarily by volume increases. However, in the fourth quarter US revenue was impacted by a significant reduction in channel inventory following the buy in that we saw in the third quarter. It's important to note that underlying volume maintained growth of about 3% in the US in the fourth quarter. Despite increased pricing pressure, we expect to grow the Januvia franchise in 2016 ex-exchange. We have maintained a high market share of about 75% in the US and 65% globally. Volume increases in the US and internationally, physician and patient experience with our medicine, and macro trends that support a growing market, all reinforce our confidence in Januvia.

Moving to hospital and specialty care, our hospital acute care business grew 11% in 2015 excluding Cubist. Sales in the fourth quarter reached more than $600 million and grew 7%. Performance was driven by our antibiotic and anti-fungal treatments as well as by Bridion in the international markets. In addition, we are launching Bridion in the US. While still early, customer feedback is very positive on this new product that uniquely reverses the neuromuscular block following surgery.

We are also excited to be launching Zepatier for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection in the US and Canada. Zepatier offers a competitive profile and high cure rates, with 12 weeks of therapy for the vast majority of patients in a one-pill, once-a-day treatment. Zepatier is differentiated versus other options, including consistent dosing regardless of cirrhosis status, renal impairment or use of PPIs and other acid-reducing agents. We believe our payer and pricing strategy will maximize Zepatier revenue and market share as well as broaden and accelerate patient access. We are enthusiastic to be back in this important market and our teams are rapidly deploying to capitalize on this opportunity.

Moving to vaccines, the vaccines portfolio grew 3% with sales of $5.7 billion in 2015. In the fourth quarter sales reached approximately $1.7 billion and grew 5% on strong performance for Gardasil. Gardasil growth was aided by timing of public sector purchases in the US of about $50 million and timing of government purchases in Brazil in our fourth quarter. Gardasil 9 now represents approximately 90% of sales in the US as our teams have executed well on converting customers to the 9-valent vaccine.

Zostavax sales declined 11% in the fourth quarter resulting from a very weak flu season in the US. We continue to work to educate customers on the reimbursement for Zostavax and to invest in direct-to-consumer advertising for this important brand.

Finally, I'd like to spend a few moments commenting on the continued launch of Keytruda. In the fourth quarter, sales were approximately $215 million, driving strong full-year sales of more than $560 million. Our performance was driven by the refractory melanoma indication in the US, as well as ongoing launches in more than 40 markets ex-US. In late 2015 we received approval in the United States for first-line treatment of advanced melanoma regardless of BRAF status. The sales force is launching this indication as we speak.

Looking into 2016 and beyond, we remain enthusiastic about the potential for Keytruda across markets and across cancer types. We are building a critical foundation for PDL1 testing in lung cancer as we launch in second line. We believe this will help to set the stage for when first-line indication is achieved. We have now demonstrated overall survival benefits for Keytruda versus standard of care in both lung cancer and melanoma, which strengthens our belief that Keytruda has the potential to become foundational to the treatment of cancer over time. With more than 200 clinical trials and more than 100 combinations in over 30 tumor types we see the potential to drive significant growth for Keytruda over the long term.

In summary, global human health delivered a solid performance in 2015. In 2016 we'll continue to prioritize resources, focusing on Januvia, hospital acute care, vaccines, and important product launches including Zepatier and Keytruda. The strength of our underlying business, the continued execution of our strategy, and the launch opportunities before us position us well for the year ahead.

Now I will turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, PRESIDENT OF MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Adam. I'll provide a brief update on our progress in key programs during the fourth quarter and will note opportunities for further advancements in 2016.

The fourth quarter was an important one for Keytruda. Our US label was updated to include data from our 006 study in melanoma, demonstrating that Keytruda treatment is superior to ipilimumab, the prior standard of care in the first-line treatment of advanced melanoma, as judged by improvements in overall survival and progression-free survival. Data from the 002 study in which Keytruda treatment proved superior assessed by progression-free survival to traditional cytotoxic chemotherapy was also added to our label. Hence, in the United States as in Europe, our Keytruda label documents the superior effect of this treatment for advanced melanoma as compared with other interventions.

Also in the fourth quarter we presented data from our KEYNOTE-010 study, demonstrating that Keytruda provides superior overall survival as compared with docetaxel treatment in non-small cell lung cancer in patients with PD-L1 expression of 1% or more. This study was presented at the ESMO Asia meeting, simultaneously published in the Lancet, and has already been included in NCCN guidelines for lung cancer treatment. These data have also been submitted for review in the United States and in Europe.

Looking ahead head for Keytruda, 2016 promises to be a very exciting year. We will see data from our KEYNOTE-024 first-line non-small cell lung cancer trial comparing treatment with a range of cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens to Keytruda monotherapy by mid year. The primary endpoint is progression-free survival. Our KEYNOTE-055 study, which evaluates response rates in head and neck cancer following Keytruda monotherapy in patients who have failed both platinum agents and cetuximab treatment will also provide important new data.

Looking still further ahead, there are multiple opportunities for filings in other tumor types, including bladder cancer and classical Hodgkin lymphoma, depending upon the results that we observe. As we have noted, the Keytruda development program is exceptionally broad with registration-enabling studies underway in more than a dozen tumor types. We do view Keytruda as providing a foundation for the next generation treatment of malignant disease. Along these lines, we are also studying combinations with cytotoxic agents, targeted therapies, vaccines and other immunomodulatory agents.

In 2015 we gained access to a Phase 1 cCAM-directed antibody program, which complements our internal clinical programs that target GITR, IL-10 and many other axes. In all we have more than 100 combination studies underway, as Adam mentioned.

A few weeks ago we announced the acquisition of IOmet through which we will gain access to a set of IDO1 and TDO1 small molecule antagonists. We have previously presented data in collaboration with our colleagues at Incyte, suggesting that Keytruda may be fruitfully combined with their IDO1 inhibitor, and a Phase 3 study using this agent will soon begin enrolling patients with melanoma. Our acquisition of IOmet will permit us to explore the utility of IDO1 inhibition much more broadly.

Last week we announced the approval of Zepatier in the United States. Zepatier was the subject of two breakthrough designations and was evaluated promptly by a priority review. A key strength of Zepatier is the fact that it can be used without dose adjustment in patients with chronic renal failure, a group that suffers from increased rates of HCV infections. Going forward in 2016 we expect to complete Phase 2B and initiate Phase 3 studies for new regimens that include MK-3682 urogenital nucleoside polymerase inhibitor, and MK-8408, a next generation highly-active NS5A inhibitor. These programs emphasize our commitment to complete care of patients with HCV infection where the goal should certainly be to cure as many patients as possible using appropriate and effective regimens.

Our 2016 plan includes numerous other approvals and filings. As we have announced previously, bezlotoxumab, our therapy designed to reduce recurrences of Clostridium Difficile associated enterocolitis, received priority review designation from the FDA with a PDUFA date in July. In 2016 we expect to complete our Phase 3 program and our filing for ertugliflozin as both single agent and in combination with Januvia. And we will obtain adjudicated data supporting the filing of odanacatib.

We will have the opportunity to review Phase 3 data from our inactivated varicella-zoster vaccine in immuno-compromised populations, and from our Phase 3 programs studying letermovir as prophylaxis for cytomegalovirus activation in patients receiving bone marrow transplants. In collaboration with our colleagues at Bayer, we will begin a Phase 3 heart failure program for vericiguat based on Phase 2 data that we presented last year. And we will also have a chance to see important early clinical data from our collaborations with NGM Pharmaceuticals in metabolic disease and from Moderna in the vaccine space.

It will be a busy year. Now I will turn the call over to Teri.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Roger. We are going to be moving on to Q&A. We would like to try to get to as many questions as possible this morning, so I'd ask that you try to hold your questions to one or two each. Thanks, Darla. We can go to Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Geoff Meacham with Barclays.

GEOFF MEACHAM, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the question. I have a couple for Roger on Keytruda in lung. The first question is, for the first-line data this year, how mature do you think the OS data will be? And will that matter to regulators in the competitive landscape?

And then on the 010 study, how much do you think the overall survival data will play a role when it comes to looking at the PD-L1 minimal expressers when you think about that testing as a lever going forward vis-a-vis competition with Bristol? Thanks a lot.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Jeff, first of all, with respect to first line, the primary endpoint of the study is progression-free survival. In these studies we do permit crossover. It's really necessary to do that in these studies. So, you really are comparing the early versus late access to Keytruda.

That's understood. Progressive-free survival is an accepted endpoint. So I think that's where we'll be with respect to first line.

And with respect to the 010 study, I am not sure exactly what you mean by PD-L1 minimal expressers. What we showed in the 010 study, of course, was that there was a treatment effect in the 1% expressers as well as in the high expressers. We have noted that in PD-L1 negative populations with non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer, it's not at all clear that there is a benefit that inures to patients who receive PD-directed therapy. And that's true for every agent that has been studied, not just our own agents.

I think it is important to be looking at PD-L1 expression in order to decide who in fact should be treated with these agents. Adam may have some other thoughts about PD-L1 expression in the second line.

ADAM SCHECHTER: The only thing I'd add, Geoff, is that if you look at reimbursement broadly in the US, right now we are being reimbursed for PD-L1 positive. It's irrespective of if it's 1% or above 50% for the vast majority of plans. So, we are seeing reimbursement already for anybody that shows up as PD-L1 positive.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson with Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Thank you. A question on Zepatier. Payers and your competitors in this space talk about long-term contracting. Knowing where your net pricing is coming in, or at least I think I know where it's coming in, and knowing the positioning of the product, which has some reasonable attributes, can you just talk about what we should expect in 2016? Consensus has, I think, around $600 million. I know you don't guide on individual products normally, but give us some guidance here, if you can, especially in the context of trying to bump what could be a high prevalence of long-term contracts.

Second question on 4-1BB. Pfizer made some positive comments yesterday. One of the products they have been studying with is your drug, Keytruda. But I'm wondering about the longevity of that deal and whether they kick you to the curb potentially now that they have their own PD-L1.

And then just a third quick question, does KEYNOTE-24 have an interim analysis? Bristol's first-line trial does not.

TERI LOXAM: Adam, why don't we start with you on Zepatier and then we can move to Roger for the other two.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Sure, Tim. Let me give you some context and then I'll try to answer the question specifically on how we are thinking about the pricing, reimbursement and contracting strategy.

First of all, I agree with your comment that we do have a competitive product. And we have high cure rates. If you look at our clinical trials in GT1 patients, it was 94% to 97%. If you look at GT4 patients, it's 97% to 100%. So, we start off by showing we have very good efficacy with the product.

I also believe we have some important differentiation with the product. Our dosing is not affected by the presence of concentrated cirrhosis. If you look at the competition, they have to change their dose there. You can use us with any degree of renal impairment. If you look at the competition, particularly in certain patients with renal impairment, they can't be used there. And, also, you don't have to adjust our dose for acid-reducing agents such as PPI. I think those are some things we feel good about in terms of differentiating our product versus the competition in the marketplace.

I think what we did was develop a real deliberate and, I believe, innovative pricing strategy to try to maximize the product and increase the number of appropriate patients treated. But the first thing I want to say is we want to be competitive across all segments and we want to look at public, private. We want to work with managed care organizations and government agencies, et cetera. So, we plan to be competitive across all segments.

And I believe that the strategy that we implemented could accelerate access to patients in certain segments where access, frankly, has not been as broad to date, including those patients with medical needs in stage 4 and 5 CKD. As you said, we don't give guidance for individual products but we will provide updates as we go through the year. We are just launching right now. The product is not available in the marketplace yet but it will be in a matter of days. And then I will provide updates as we go through the year to give you a sense of where we are.

TERI LOXAM: Roger, do you want to address the 4-1BB and KEYNOTE-024 interim?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Tim, on 4-1BB, first in context, as you know, this is just a huge number of combinations that potentially can be studied. We're studying 100. And 4-1BB is one of those. The expectation is that we are going to see a lot of opportunities to combine Keytruda with other drugs. We are already seeing those and have talked about them -- for example, in combination with chemotherapy, radiotherapy, with immunizations, with T-vec, the oncolytic virus. And of course we're doing our own studies with other checkpoint inhibitors and other immunogens.

We are very pleased with our collaboration with Pfizer on 4-1BB. I believe that the plan is, assuming that it's accepted, to be able to present some of those data at ASCO. And our expectation is that if it turns out that there is a good opportunity there, that we will continue to collaborate. I am not really terribly concerned about not being able to take advantage of an important opportunity to help patients.

With respect to KEYNOTE-024, the study is, of course, being continuously monitored by a data monitoring committee. But, importantly, here we are in February, clinical trials, I think has the end in June, so we are getting close to the end of this study anyway. And my expectation is that we'll have the opportunity to see the data in not too long a time, and can use that as a basis, potentially, assuming the data come out correctly, as a basis for filing.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you very much. Ken, a first question for you. At our CEO conference earlier last month you talked about your increasing desire to be more aggressive with M&A now that you have a strong scientific team on board, thanks to Roger. Given the fairly significant derating of the biotech space since that conference, I would think you are absolutely licking your chops. Can you talk about the M&A landscape? And, most importantly, when do you think the buyers and sellers start to come together?

And then a question for you, Roger, I think to Roger. It's again on Keytruda and the first-line study. Can you size the opportunity? How large is the highest PD-L1 expressers in the front-line lung market? And when will we see the study that targets the entire PD-L1 patient population in front-line lung? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Jami. Let me start by just reiterating what I said before, which is that business development remains a critical part of our strategy because we need to pair both our internal work with the best external innovation opportunities. And we are looking to augment our Phase 2 as well as our early-stage pipeline with these kinds of partnerships and collaborations and bolt-on acquisitions.

As it relates to the rerating of the biotech industry, of course we are very focused on value-creating opportunities. Our team has looked at this very carefully and we are very active in looking for opportunities in oncology and other therapeutic areas where we can build our pipeline. I can just assure you that we have paid attention to what's happened in the marketplace and we are working very actively to reach the right kinds of deals, whether they are M&A or partnerships or collaborations to advance our pipeline.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Jami, on the first-line opportunity and the size, just to remind you and everyone, our approach has been to ask the question of whether or not we can identify populations that would benefit, especially from the treatment of Keytruda. And we chose to use the PD-L1 expression as a marker for that. It's turned out that that is a marker. And the reason, of course, is not because specifically that PD-L1 is the counter ligand for PD-1, but rather because PD-L1 is a marker for the presence of an immune response, and that PD-L1, as a result, is telling us that there already is a preexisting immune response that can be enhanced by the addition of Keytruda.

The 024 study looks at those that are PD-L1 high. And what we have done in all of our studies is that we have looked at the PD-L1 high, those with the proportion of scores above 50%, and then looked at those that are expressing PD-L1 above 1% and also looked as those that appeared not to be expressing PD-L1 as we move across the line.

So, for example, and we published in the New England Journal that there was, in general terms, in the 001 study, in melanoma, in general, that those patients who were expressing more PD-L1 had better responses. We similarly published data in 010 study recently showing that responses were better in the highest PD-L1 expressers, again reflecting immune status.

The 024 studies looks at those that have the highest PD-L1 expression. It was about 25% of the first-line patient population. The 042 study will go on and look at patients who have the 1% cut point. And we will begin to see the data across the entire first line. So, we will have an opportunity to look at that.

Frankly, from a biological perspective, I really can't understand why it would be any different in the first-line population from what we have previously shown in other tumor populations because, again, PD-L1 expression is a reflection of immune activity.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott with JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks very much for the question. Just two here. First, can you elaborate on Januvia sales in the quarter? How much did destocking impact results? And maybe, more broadly, just latest thoughts on the SGLT2 impact on the DPP4 classes as you talk about growing Januvia in 2016.

And then a follow-up on HCV. Can you just comment specifically on how much you see price driving share and broader adoption of these agents in the space? I think just a lot of focus on how the price dynamics play out here. I know you're not going to give specific comments, but just generally speaking do you see price as a lever that is relevant to the space going forward for you? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Chris. This is Adam. Let me start off with the Januvia franchise because I think it's important to give some additional context. I want to start off by saying we are really pleased that Januvia grew 7% in 2015.

And if you look at our underlying performance in fourth quarter, it was similar to the other quarters in the year. What you saw in fourth quarter was volume growth in the US of about 3%, which was about the same as what you saw the quarter before, and so forth.

What happened was there was significant channel reductions that followed the third-quarter buy-in, which I noted on the last call was more than $100 million. And as you may recall, last quarter the US grew 22% for Januvia, and that's why I noted that there was buy in and we would expect to see buy out.

So when you look at fourth quarter, I would look at the underlying performance, which remains similar to the other quarters. And I think we had a good year with Januvia showing 7% growth versus prior.

When you look at 2016, despite increasing pricing pressure that we will see in the United States and the bi-annual price declines that you see in Japan, we expect to grow the franchise globally, when you exclude exchange. And what that means with regard to EMPA-REG, we don't see a significant impact in 2016. In fact, if you look at the earliest data that you can look at, we are seeing market share shifts within the SGLT2 class, but we're not seeing shifts between classes, between DPP4s and SGLT2s.

We will continue to monitor that closely. We will see when there is label changes or if there's potential guideline changes. But at this point in time we feel confident that there should not be a significant impact in 2016 from the SGLT2 class.

Let me answer your question on Zepatier. I already stated that we think that we have a competitive product profile, and that's where it all starts. You have to have a competitive product profile to be successful in the marketplace. Efficacy is good. We think we have strong differentiation versus the competitors.

Price is always a lever that you can choose to utilize, but you don't necessarily have to utilize it nearly as much when you have a differentiated product that you think you can bring to market. We will continue to keep you updated on Zepatier as we move forward. But we are going to do everything we can to optimize and maximize that brand.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert with Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes, thanks. First for Rob, it looks like you're guiding to a currency effect on the bottom line that's more extreme than the top line in 2016. So, can you just help us understand that relationship for 2016 and for Merck in general, and comment on what share count you are factoring into for guidance for the year?

And then for Ken, going back to the aggressive deal strategy you described, what are your latest thoughts on deals like the Cubist deal, and whether those are the kinds of deals you are looking to sprinkle in, as well. It sounds like you have a scientific and pipeline focus but what about deals that leverage or build out certain commercial verticals you have and whether you do those deals again? Thanks.

ROB DAVIS: This is Rob. Good morning, Gregg. On your question, we are seeing a little bit more pressure to earnings than we are to sales from foreign currency. The biggest single driver of that is really how our hedging is flowing through on a year-on-year basis.

Recall that in 2015 we flagged in prior quarters that we have received a meaningful benefit from hedge gains as a result of the positions we took. And that declines, that benefit declines, as you look from 2015 into 2016, assuming constant rates, basically because of the fact that a lot of those hedges were in place and the gains on them were smaller.

That impact does cause a little bit more of the leveraging effect you're seeing between the top and the bottom line. Other than that, we generally see a proportional move between sales and earnings. But that's the single biggest driver.

And then to your question of what we're looking at from a share count, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we are assuming 2.78 billion shares as an average for 2016, which is a reduction from where we were in 2015.

KEN FRAZIER: Gregg, thanks for the question on M&A. Let me start by saying that the Cubist deal actually has been a good deal for us, as you can see from this year's results. It also positions us well in the antibiotic space, a space that's a priority space for us going forward from that standpoint.

But I also want to reiterate what I said, which is that our main focus going forward will be to augment our Phase 2 and early-stage pipeline. So, our focus is on getting the best external science because we believe that's how we can drive the greatest long-term value. I would say going forward our main focus will be more on those kinds of scientific acquisition deals than on things that augment necessarily our commercial stable.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez with Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks very much. Just a couple of quick questions. Ken, as I just listened to your comments, one of the things that I'm trying to better understand is, can you give us a little bit of the history of Phase 2 and earlier stage deals where Merck has successfully brought forward a product like that into development? When I look at the yield history, Schering-Plough is really one of the acquisitions that was quite successful with regard to gaining access to Keytruda, having your BACE inhibitor advance forward. Can you just help me understand why the smaller acquisitions are really the way to go? Obviously, you guys identified those assets, but it actually came from a larger deal and was clearly value generating.

And then, separately, for Roger, Roger, where I'm a little perplexed on the timing, if I look at the development of the front-line lung situation, it seems like studies that finish faster in immuno-oncology consistently show a less robust result. So, can you help me understand how the KEYNOTE-24 study has an opportunity to successfully complete earlier than expected and before some of the other competitor studies that are out there?

And then my final question, just for Adam, I think you guys have been really respectful basically not saying that you are going to win, but that you will have a foundational product in Keytruda. When other competitors claim and state that they are going to win, particularly from a third or fourth or fifth position, how likely is it, given what you have seen historically that that is a realistic possibility, particularly in the space where new standards of care are being created? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. Let me first start with your first question, Seamus, which is a perspective on how early-stage deals have created value for Merck. I would start by saying that at Merck we have always been focused on being a company that tries to develop really strong insights into human biology. And that has helped us to find things earlier on that have actually become important.

Some examples are Fosamax, which was licensed in, or Cozaar. In my own experience when I was on the legal side, the work that we did to get access to the DPP4 technology through a German company call Pro BioDrugs, when those deals were done, people don't necessarily sit up and take notice of them. But Januvia was the result of that deal, which was done a number of years ago.

So, what we have found in the past is the best way for us to create value is through those insights early on that allow us to acquire the kinds of things that you heard Roger talk about -- NGN and Moderna. Our goal is to find those kinds of things before there is a bidding war to apply our scientific know-how, our development know-how, our molecular -- I'm sorry to say, our medicinal chemistry know-how -- and to bring forward the kinds of molecules like sitagliptin that can actually be pretty important contributions to human health.

ADAM SCHECHTER: With regard to Keytruda, I'll answer your question next, I've always said that I believe that this market is going to be a very large market and that there is room for multiple competitors. I also believe that there will be certain competitors that do really well in one tumor type and another competitor might get data in a different tumor type first, and, therefore, you see differences based on tumor type. It's not too different than if you look at the anti-TNF field where you have multiple products. One might be do better in GI, the other might do better in rheumatoid arthritis, but they all tend to do very well and grow very fast.

At the same time, I believe building a wall of data is important. When you look at the size and the magnitude of our clinical trials, and when you look at the number of tumor types that we are studying, I think we are going to be in a very good position over the long term. And it's hard to think about late entrants coming in and having a strong position once you have that wall of data built. I think the strategy that we've put in place is the right strategy over time, and I think over time you will see us in a leadership position.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Seamus, I am not sure exactly what you mean by faster studies giving less robust results. Just to outline again, our strategy broadly with respect to these tumor types, as I mentioned in response to Jami Rubin's question, is that we have gone in and said let's look at the patient populations in which we expect to see the best results. And those are the PD-L1 highs in the current formulation. It's not the only biomarker that we have. In fact, we have involved other better biomarkers, we believe. But it's one that's useful.

In those patient populations, because a higher percentage of the treated patients, in principle, should respond, the result will be faster. But it shouldn't be less robust. In fact, in many cases it would be more robust simply in terms of the efficacy window. So, that's the basis for why the 024 study, which is reading out in mid year, has a good chance of succeeding. We don't know what the data are but we are eager to see the data on PFS. And thereafter, the populations will broaden through 042 and through a whole variety of other studies that we are doing. So, that's the general strategy and I think it's a good one because it focuses on those patients who need these therapies most.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum with Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. A couple of questions, please. First for Roger, some of your competitors are beginning to make investments in cancer neoantigen vaccine platforms to address the non-biogenic tumor subsets which are obviously sizeable. I am unaware that Merck has such a collaboration right now. Obviously involves logistical complexities (inaudible) off-the-shelf solution might share a point. I would be interested in your appetite to move into that treatment modality.

And then, second, a question for Ken. Obviously, pharma has been positioned as a rogue industry in light of the pricing issues within the US. To what extent are you seeing some of the negative attention on reimbursements spill over into other areas? I noticed [notpic] in investigations from the DOJ, the FTC, the HHS. Do you see any additional risk there for the industry as a function of scrutiny, almost certainly driven by political focus? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Andrew, with respect to neoantigen vaccine strategies, conceptually the idea is, okay, we've introduced checkpoint inhibitors now and we can get good responses in a significant percentage of patients. But in a large number of patients, on more than half, we actually don't see a response. So, why don't we see a response in those patients?

One possibility certainly is that there isn't enough preexisting immune response. And if we could stimulate that through, as you say, a neoantigen vaccine, things might go better. We're interested in those kinds of strategies. We, of course, have used other vaccination strategies. I point out again the oncolytic virus strategy which appears to have some traction.

And we are looking at the question of whether or not it's possible to use neoantigens. One of the issues is, as I'm sure you realize, introducing it as scope therapy where each patient receives a unique neoantigen cocktail will be very challenging from an industry perspective. So, we are looking for those situations where there might be groups of neoantigens that could be used and would be able to improve responses in a large set of patients.

KEN FRAZIER: And with respect to the political and regulatory and legal issues around pricing pressures, obviously the whole issue of pricing and affordability for patients is a significant one. It's a challenge that we have as a society. I think it's unfortunate that that debate is being amplified and, in some ways, distorted by some of the political rhetoric, especially having to do with the Presidential election cycle. From a pharma standpoint, as Chairman of PhRMA, we continue to work and educate constituents in Washington, DC and around the country on how pharmaceuticals actually help reduce costs in the overall healthcare system, as well as the impact that they have on individuals, as well.

Now, the reality of the world is, as we've seen, when there are these headlines you tend to get Congressional hearings, and you tend to have states attorneys generals writing letters and things of that nature. And I take those things very seriously. But I also think that the most important thing we can do as an industry is to continue to price our products consistent with the value that they provide to our customers, and to continue to try to educate, again, people about the long-term positive impact that appropriate use of pharmaceuticals has on overall healthcare costs.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler with Guggenheim Securities.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Yes, good morning. Thank you, Teri. A couple of brief questions for Roger. One is, interesting BD solution with IOmet given some earlier data that you presented at SITC on melanoma. But the real question is, do you actually have data in-house that an IDO and/or a TDO inhibitor in combination with Keytruda would have utility in tumors outside of melanoma?

The second question is around GITR. Will we see Keytruda GITR combos this calendar year at a clinical meeting?

And forgive me, Teri, but, Adam, quickly on Remicade non-US, do you actually have countries which are actively switching patients on to the biosimilar today, or is that simply new patients who go on an anti-TNF inhibitor? Thank you very much.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Tony, with respect to the question of whether IDO1 inhibitor data exists outside of melanoma, we have a lot of data that we have generated in combination with Incyte. In order to really know whether you have evidence for combined efficacy, you would have to have detailed, really, comparisons between monotherapy versus combination therapy, and those kinds of data don't exist, really, anywhere. Those really have to be done in robust Phase 2 or certainly Phase 3 studies. And we are moving forward with that.

We are interested in pursuing the field in more detail and in order to do that we really need to have access to a whole range of different compounds. And that's really what drove the IOmet deal. We are pleased with our interaction with Incyte but we need to be able to look at a broader range of starting materials.

And for the GITR data, we are doing combination studies right now, GITR in combination with Keytruda. Depending how enrollment goes and how much data we have, we hope to be able to present some of that data this year.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And then with regard to the question on Remicade, if you look at share by volume, we had 85% share in the fourth quarter. That came down from about 90% share that we had the quarter before. So, we're definitely seeing biosimilar business wins for new patients. The percent of new patients is only going to grow over time. Right now about 10% to 20% of the business per year is new patients.

We are seeing substitution of existing patients in some smaller markets such as the Nordics. At this point in time, we are not seeing it in the larger markets. But we continue to anticipate that the impacts of biosimilars is going to accelerate as we got into 2016, as there is more and more new patients coming into the market and they become a larger percent of the sale.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei with BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. Thank you for taking the questions. Roger, on the Keytruda 024 first-line study, forgive my ignorance on this, but can you provide the rationale why PFS was selected as a primary endpoint given that it has not been a reliable endpoint for anti-PD1s in general? Basically I'm trying to assess the risk for this trial. Could we see a situation where PFS is not significant but overall survival is significant, which would actually be similar to what we have seen in a more advanced setting?

And the follow up for Rob, what's driving the 14% FX head wind in animal health? Obviously it's more significant than what you are experiencing overall and masking solid operation or growth. Is this mostly Venezuela? And when can we expect this to moderate? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Alex, this is Roger. On the PFS endpoint, if you look at the 010 study, I think that that's a good model for you to look at because you look at overall survival and you look at PFS, the PFS hazard ratio is really excellent. And you can see the progression-free survival for both doses and for PD-L1 high as well as PD-L1 1% population.

Again, I don't really see why first line should look any different from second line in that kind of setting, and we should, therefore, be able to see a PFS signal. And you can do the tower calculations based on the hazard ratio of less than 0.6 that we saw in that study. That looks pretty good. You can't know until you do the study but that's really what it all looked like, I think.

ROB DAVIS: Alex, the other part of your question on animal health, the reason you see a higher FX impact to animal health is predominantly due to the fact that the sales of animal health relative to our human health business are even more weighted outside of the United States -- pretty significantly outside of the United States. So, it's really just a proportion of the sales coming from markets exposed to currency more than anything else. Venezuela did have a nominal impact on animal health but it's not the driver. It's just general trends across all currencies.

OPERATOR: David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. With respect to hepatitis C, could you please talk a little bit more about your list pricing decision relative to the competition and how the market should think about discounting? Obviously, there is a lot of speculation, so it would be good for you to help frame these topics so that people understand your perspective on the list pricing and discounting.

And then, second, with respect to odanacatib, investor expectations are very low for this drug, Roger. I was just hoping that you could share your level of enthusiasm for this drug to be approved and have a successful launch. Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Dave. This is Adam. Let me start with Zepatier. I always think it's important to remind everyone that we have a competitive product profile, and it all starts with having a competitive product profile. And I think we potentially would have some areas of differentiation that could be important.

In addition to that, I think we developed a good pricing strategy that's going to help Zepatier be successful in the marketplace. What we did was we priced our list price to be competitive where the market's current net prices are. Our list price makes us competitive across all segments. I think it could potentially help us in some currently underserved segments.

I think, also, lower list prices could potentially have a positive impact on out-of-pocket medication costs for some patients. There are some patients in Part D where the list price does matter in terms of out-of-pocket costs, and I think it could be beneficial for us there.

I wouldn't read into our discounting strategy based upon our initial pricing strategy. What we intend to do is compete in all segments of the market and to have an appropriate discounting strategy that allows us to have access.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And Dave, it's Roger on odanacatib. Back in May of 2014 I talked about odanacatib because we had the early results from memo available for the Phase 3 study, and noted that odanacatib had hit the three critical endpoints in osteoporosis -- namely, it reduced vertebral fractures, no-vertebral fractures, and it reduced fractures at hip. And I said at the time that the benefit-risk profile for odanacatib appeared favorable.

It's a novel oral therapy that does what it's supposed to do in terms of reducing fractures, actually quite dramatically, quite impressively. In terms of clinical vertebral fractures it's really the best that I have seen, and I've been doing this for a while. So it looks really quite good.

One of the things that we pointed out when we presented these data at the end of 2014 was that there was a larger than usual discrepancy in adverse experience reporting for investigators versus central review. And in order to resolve that problem, we undertook an adjudication process, and that adjudication process has taken much longer than we imagined. We worked with FDA to define that process and we have worked with an external organization to go through with it. It took all of last year. We are nearly done. We want to get these data in and have an opportunity to file it.

But I don't think there's any question that odanacatib does what it's supposed to do. We just want to see those data pulled together.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to talk a little bit about your Belsomra launch. Scripts are doing fine. We are curious about the performance, though, above and below your expectations at this point. And really quick, is there anything in the pipeline that investors are ignoring?

ADAM SCHECHTER: With regard to Belsomra we started off with a really good launch and we had nice growth. It then flattened a little bit. We ran direct-to-consumer advertising and we saw an increase again in TRx volume. We have since seen it flatten a bit.

We are working right now on augmenting our digital capabilities and our online capabilities. At the same time we're working with physicians to understand that if 10 milligrams, which is the start dose, isn't effective, that they should titrate the patient to 20 milligrams. I would say that we were off to a good start. I am not pleased that it's currently flat at this point in time, but we are working on that.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And, Mark, with respect to the pipeline, your colleagues are always telling me that, based on our current share price, it appears that the pipeline is being completely ignored because there is almost no value that is ascribed to it. And it surprises them that here we have a really major effort in Alzheimer's, for example, and don't get an enormous amount of credit for that.

When you tick through all of those Phase 3 opportunities, some of which I mentioned, that are coming forward, as well as the large number of Phase 2 programs in the early space -- and I could go through them one after another -- I think we have an enormous opportunity here, and would love to have the opportunity to talk about it in more detail.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Roger. I think, unfortunately, we are out of time. So I'm going to just turn it over to Ken for some final comments.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. Again, thank you for joining us this morning. We are pleased with the growth that we saw through continued execution in our key areas, including diabetes. We are looking forward to additional growth. I think if you look at our 2016 guidance ex FX, you see we expect to grow low to mid single digits. I think it's important to look at our EPS also. We continue to be very rigorous in our cost reductions and we are able to provide guidance here that, again, will allow us, ex FX, to grow mid to high single digits.

So, we are pleased that we are back in a growth mode. And we're very excited to have opportunities to launch important products like Zepatier and Keytruda. Thank you for your attention this morning. We look forward to talking to you in the future. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160204ec23001s0
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,528 words
   PD
27 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Darla, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time. I would like to welcome everyone to the Q3 2015 sales and earnings call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Teri Loxam.

TERI LOXAM, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Darla, and good morning to everyone. Welcome to Merck's third-quarter 2015 conference call. Today, I am joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rob Davis, our Chief Financial Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Lab.

Before I turn the call over to Ken, I want to point out a couple of items. First, you will see that we have items in our GAAP results, such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs, and certain other items. You should note that we've excluding these items from our non-GAAP results and provided a reconciliation of these items in table 2 of our press release.

We've also provided a table to help you understand the sales results in the quarter for the business units and products, which can be found in table 3 of our press release. During the call we may refer to table 2 for the P&L and table 3 as it relates to revenue.

Second, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current belief of Merck's Management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Our SEC filings, including item 1A and the 2014 10-K identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, and you can see our SEC filings as well as today's earnings release on Merck.com. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Teri. Good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining the call this morning.

Before we review our third-quarter results, I want to reinforce a few fundamental points about Merck. Our Company has had a long history of success in translating scientific discoveries into novel and highly differentiated medicines and vaccines that provide major therapeutic and economic value. Our R&D-focused strategy aims to drive future growth and shareholder value in the same manner. We believe that the evolving characteristics and dynamics of global healthcare increasingly underscore this ability to provide high-value innovation is what distinguishes successful companies going forward.

This approach is evidenced by our late-stage pipeline in ongoing launches, which reflect scientific and therapeutic progress in some of the world's most challenging areas of unmet medical need, including cancer, antibiotic resistance, cardiometabolic disease, hepatitis C, and Alzheimer's disease, all areas where we have both the near- and longer-term opportunities to create beneficial returns for patients, society, and shareholders. Our broad, global, and balanced portfolio of medicines and vaccines allows us to weather periodic volatility within a particular therapeutic area or region, while consistently focusing on the best scientific and medical opportunities.

Speaking of focus, we've been investing our resources to grow our strongest brands and to support the most promising assets in our pipeline, while at the same time, lowering our overall cost base and delivering a leveraged P&L. We restored the JANUVIA franchise to growth. We established an oncology business unit and accelerated the development of KEYTRUDA, which was the first anti-PD-1 to market in the US. We reinforced our leadership in hospital acute care, specifically in antibiotic resistance, and have continued to drive positive results in vaccines. We are executing well on our strategy, advancing our pipeline and commercial portfolio, both internally as well as externally through business development, all while delivering significant capital returns to shareholders.

In the third quarter, we reported solid top-line performance, achieving strong results in our core focus areas, which, coupled with thoughtful cost management, translated to bottom-line growth. Rob and Adam will provide more detail on our financial, operational, and commercial performance this past quarter.

On the R&D front, our Research organization continues to make major strides, accomplishing several important milestones this quarter, which Roger will review in detail in a few minutes. Progress in our oncology and hepatitis C programs underscores and exemplifies our ongoing commitment to pursuing science in the areas where we can have the greatest impact, while driving long-term growth.

On a separate but meaningful note, we are especially proud to mention that recently our own William Campbell, Dr. William Campbell, was jointly named to the 2015 Nobel Prize winner in physiology or medicine for his work and the discovery of Mectizan. More than 2 billion free treatments later, the results speak for themselves as river blindness is in the process of being eliminated around the world. As you may know, this honor is rarely bestowed on a scientist whose research was conducted in a company setting. We are delighted for our retired colleague Dr. Campbell, who is an inspiration for our Merck colleagues around the world.

In closing, Merck is well positioned for a solid finish in 2015. Our results for the quarter and year to date reflect the Company's disciplined focus and investment of resources on the internal and external opportunities that can generate sustainable value for society and shareholders. In doing so, we intend to continue to play a leading role in helping to shape the future of health for populations around the world. And now, I'd like to turn the call over to my colleague, Rob Davis.

ROB DAVIS, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Ken, and good morning, everyone. Our performance for the third quarter is evidence of our continued focus on execution. We delivered solid financial results and a leveraged P&L in the quarter as we saw a return to growth, ex exchange, on both the top and bottom lines.

Total Company revenues of $10.1 billion in the quarter decreased 5% versus the third quarter of 2014. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, total revenue grew 2% this quarter, and grew 4% if you further excluded the impact of acquisitions and divestitures.

In addition to strong results for Global Human Health, which Adam will discuss in a few minutes, Animal Health grew 7% in the quarter, excluding exchange. This growth was driven by an increase in sales of companion animal products, primarily BRAVECTO, as well as new aqua and swine products.

As a result of our performance in the first nine months of the year, we are narrowing our revenue guidance range and increasing the midpoint. We now expect full-year 2015 revenue to be $39.2 billion to $39.8 billion at current exchange rates.

Turning to the other parts of the P&L, non-GAAP product gross margin was 75.1% in the quarter, an increase of 80 basis points year over year, primarily driven by lower inventory write-offs. We remain focused on driving additional productivity through improvements in our operating model, as total non-GAAP operating expenses were approximately $160 million lower this quarter. Marketing and administrative expense, which declined 7% versus prior year, was partially offset by a modest increase in research and development.

We continue to expect full-year 2015 non-GAAP operating expenses will be lower than they were in 2014. In addition, we are pleased to report that we have met and will exceed our annual target of $2.5 billion in net savings versus 2012 by the end of this year. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 21.6%. Given our results year to date, we expect the full-year rate to be at the lower end of our overall guidance range of 23% to 24%.

Taken together, we earned $0.96 per share on a non-GAAP basis in the third quarter, delivering 7% growth on the bottom line, and significant P&L leverage. This marks our second sequential quarter of year-over-year earnings growth, taking in to account headwinds from foreign exchange and net acquisitions and divestitures, and is continued proof of our efforts to manage our business and execute on our strategy. Given our continued expectation of strong operational performance in the fourth quarter, we are increasing the top and bottom ends of our full-year non-GAAP EPS guidance range to $3.55 to $3.60.

Finally, in addition to investing in our business and looking for opportunities to bolster our pipeline with external innovation, we remain committed to returning cash to shareholders via the dividend and share repurchases. To that end, we were able to take advantage of market conditions in the latter half of the quarter and repurchase additional shares opportunistically, nearly doubling the amount of repurchases in the prior quarter. Given these additional purchases, we now expect to return approximately $4 billion to shareholders via share repurchases in 2015.

The third quarter was another demonstration of strong execution. We remain committed to delivering a leveraged P&L through our focus on expense management, while also ensuring we make appropriate investments on our broad portfolio of commercial and pipeline opportunities.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER, PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Rob, and good morning, everyone. This morning, I'll discuss the third-quarter results for Global Human Health, and my comments will be on a constant currency basis.

This quarter, we continued to drive growth within our core business, while executing on our new product launches. As a result, worldwide Human Health sales increased 6%, driven by sales growth in the United States and emerging markets, partially offset by declines in Europe and Japan. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, worldwide sales grew 3%. Our global growth was primarily driven by our diabetes, hospital acute care, and oncology businesses.

Beginning with diabetes and our JANUVIA franchise, our results continue to reflect the strength and the importance of these products and our commitment to grow JANUVIA in the DPP-4 class. With nine years on the market, physicians are comfortable with and confident in the efficacy and safety that JANUVIA offers for patients with type II diabetes. In the third quarter, JANUVIA franchise sales reached approximately $1.6 billion, and grew 17%.

In the United States, sales grew 22%. Timing of customer buying significantly benefited the third quarter by approximately $100 million. This will have an adverse impact in the fourth or subsequent quarters.

The best way to understand the underlying performance is through TRx trends. Through continued execution of our strategy, we drove underlying volume growth of about 4%. We are encouraged by the volume trends as we head into the fourth quarter and into 2016.

In the international markets, which represent nearly half of our diabetes business, JANUVIA franchise sales reached approximately $675 million, and grew 12%. We drove double-digit growth in Europe and emerging markets, which was partially offset by slight declines in Japan.

Diabetes is a progressive disease that affects hundreds of millions of patients worldwide. Many patients require more than one medication to treat the disease. We continue to see opportunities to grow JANUVIA as a preferred add-on therapy in global markets.

Next, in immunology, combined sales of REMICADE and SIMPONI were approximately $620 million, a decline of 5%. SIMPONI grew 25%, but growth was offset by a 13% decline in REMICADE sales. As expected, we continue to see additional competitive impact from biosimilars across Europe. We expect declines in REMICADE will continue to accelerate in the fourth quarter and throughout 2016.

In hospital acute care, global sales reached approximately $985 million. Excluding the impact of our acquisition of Cubist, sales grew 7%. We drove growth for BRIDION in a portfolio of antibiotic and antifungal treatments. We continue to see this segment as a growth driver and expect to solidify our position as a global leader in hospital acute care with our emerging pipeline products. Additionally, our teams are preparing to launch BRIDION later this year in the US.

Turning now to the vaccine business, vaccine sales were approximately $1.6 billion, a decline of 3% versus the prior year. Gardasil franchise growth was more than offset by declines in PROQUAD due to a timing of sales activity related to the CDC stockpile and continued near-term competitive pressure for PNEUMOVAX. Combined sales of GARDASIL and GARDASIL 9 grew 7% to approximately $625 million, with continued growth in the US. GARDASIL 9 accounted for approximately 80% of HPV sales in the US. This result is a testament to our Team's strong execution in securing managed care access and their ability to transition customers to the new 9-valent vaccine.

Zostavax global sales increased 1% to approximately $180 million. Growth in ex-US markets was partially offset by slight decline in the US, resulting from a delayed start to the flu season. As we've indicated previously, we do see some seasonal fluctuations in Zostavax sales with increases in vaccination rates when patients visit their doctors or their pharmacist to receive a flu shot.

Now that the flu season has begun, we have launched a new DTC campaign to drive future growth. Outside of the US, we continue to launch in more than 25 markets, and it remains significant opportunity for Zostavax globally. We remain confident in the proven efficacy and safety that comes from the single-dose regimen of Zostavax.

Now I'm excited to share with you some updates in a few of our launched products, and I will start with KEYTRUDA. We continue to be pleased with our execution of the KEYTRUDA launch. Global sales for KEYTRUDA were approximately $160 million in the third quarter, an increase of 45% compared to the second quarter of this year. Importantly, our strong launch in melanoma has provided physicians with valuable experience using KEYTRUDA with its durable efficacy results and convenient dosing schedule of every three weeks.

In the US, KEYTRUDA retains approximately 70% of anti-PD-1 one patient share in melanoma, and it's the number one therapy to treat melanoma in the United States across all classes of treatment. Internationally, KEYTRUDA is launching in approximately 40 markets, including the EU, where the product is approved for use in advanced first- and second-line melanoma. Our teams are working tirelessly to secure pricing and reimbursement, and recent recommendations from NICE in the UK are helping to secure timely access for patients.

Additionally, we are enthusiastic about expanding our launch of KEYTRUDA to patients suffering from lung cancer. In the few weeks since FDA approval, our teams have reached a majority of high-volume prescribers for this important new indication. Earlier customer feedback is encouraging, and we're confident about the uptake of KEYTRUDA over time as customers build in PD-L1 testing as a common practice in lung cancer diagnosis to inform treatment decisions.

We are still in the very early days of the KEYTRUDA launch and life cycle. With approvals in lung cancer and melanoma, and one of the broadest clinical programs in the industry, studying over 30 different tumor types, we are very excited about the promise KEYTRUDA offers to patients suffering from cancer now and in the future.

Moving to BELSOMRA, we continue to be encouraged by the early days of the BELSOMRA launch in the US and Japan. In the US, we initiated a branded DTC campaign in August, and we're already seeing steady demand increases from both new and current customers. Brand awareness continues to increase for both physicians and for patients.

Finally, our teams are preparing for the launch of our hepatitis C doublet in the US, the EU, and other global markets. Merck has an important legacy in bringing innovative treatments for HCV to the market. We have maintained our global footprint and our relationships in the HCV community. Our teams are ready, and they are extremely excited to launch.

In summary, Global Human Health delivered another solid quarter. We grew through execution in core areas of diabetes, hospital acute care, and oncology, and we continue to gain momentum with our key new product launches.

Now I'll turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, PRESIDENT OF MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Adam. The third quarter saw continued progress in late stage development, especially in our oncology and infectious disease programs, with new results, new regulatory approvals, and new partnerships.

First, with respect to KEYTRUDA, our PD-1 directed monoclonal antibody designed to promote activation of tumor-directed immune responses, at the end of the quarter, we obtained accelerated approval from the FDA for the treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer in the salvage setting. This approval was based on the response rate seen in patients with advanced disease whose tumors expressed PD-L1 in 50% or more of tumor cells.

Accelerated approval of KEYTRUDA required that we had a confirmatory study underway, and the study was called KEYNOTE-010. The final top-line results from KEYNOTE-010 study were announced yesterday. Briefly, the KEYNOTE-010 study randomized 1,034 patients with advanced non-small lung cancer who had failed at least one prior systemic therapy to treat with either docetaxel, a standard chemotherapeutic agent used in the setting, or to KEYTRUDA. Patients enrolled in the study were quite ill, typically with stage 4 disease and evidence of metastases, including brain metastases in many cases.

KEYTRUDA was administrated either at the approved dose of 2 milligrams per kilogram given every three weeks, or an investigational dose of 10 milligrams per kilogram every three weeks. All patients enrolled in the study had tumors that expressed PD-L1 in at least 1% of cells; however, statistical testing for the primary endpoint was performed first in the population of individuals whose tumors had very high expression PD-L1, that's equal to or greater than 50%, which permitted the subsequent analysis of the entire population, including all of those whose tumors express PD-L1 in at least 1% but fewer than 50% of tumor cells.

As we announced yesterday the KEYNOTE-010 results were unambiguous. Administration of KEYTRUDA as compared with docetaxel improved the overall survival of patients with non-small cell lung cancer, irrespective of the proportion of cells that express PD-L1 as judged by immunohistochemistry. There was no meaningful difference observed between the 2-milligram dose of KEYTRUDA, the approved dose, and investigational 10-milligram dose, a result that mirrors what we had previously seen in the melanoma setting.

I should emphasize that the KEYNOTE-010 study enrolled patients with both squamous and non-squamous cell histologies in about the ratio that one would expect on the basis of the epidemiology of lung cancer. KEYNOTE-010 is a large multinational randomized controlled clinical trial, and of course, there's a great deal more information relevant to the outcomes of patients treated with KEYTRUDA as compared with docetaxel that can be distilled from the study. We anticipate presenting the results of KEYNOTE-010 at a scientific meeting in the near future and expect to submit the data for review by regulatory authorities before the end of the year.

Beyond KEYNOTE-010, we continue to explore the utility of KEYTRUDA therapy in patients with non-small cell lung cancer at an early stage in the evolution of the disease. We have two ongoing first-line studies addressing this issue. Our KEYNOTE-024 study is now fully enrolled, and our somewhat larger KEYNOTE-042 study is enrolling well.

We have previously shown that KEYTRUDA improves overall survival when used as first-line therapy in patients with advanced melanoma. These data are included in our European label for KEYTRUDA and are currently under review on a priority basis at the FDA. We expect to complete a label discussions with the agency regarding both our KEYNOTE-002 and KEYNOTE-006 studies in the fourth quarter.

In evaluating KEYTRUDA, we have sought to broaden the impact of this therapy still further by combining it with other immune manipulations. Along these lines, we recently announced the expansion of our collaboration with Incyte Pharmaceutical, testing whether their IDO1 inhibitor could increase tumor regression in patients simultaneously receiving KEYTRUDA. Early data from this collaboration will be presented at the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer meetings in November.

Lastly, I should again note that we have an exceptionally broad program exploring the utility of KEYTRUDA treatment. We have embarked upon registration-enabling studies in more than 10 different tumor types, are exploring the utility of KEYTRUDA treatment in 20 additional cancers, and have evidence of tumor responses in about two dozen different types of malignancies. Earlier today, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan announced the first set of so-called SAKIGAKE products, those given fast-track review status, which included KEYTRUDA for the treatment of advanced unresectable gastric cancer. Clearly, the spectrum of activity of KEYTRUDA appears to be extraordinarily broad.

Turning now to infectious diseases, during the third quarter, the European commission ratified the use of Zerbaxa for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal or urinary tract infection. Also during the quarter, we had the opportunity to present the results from bezlotoxumab, our monoclonal antibody directed against the toxin produced by Clostridium difficile. As we discussed at the Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents in Chemotherapy, a single intravenous administration of bezlotoxumab significantly reduced recurrence of C. difficile infection as compared with standard therapy. We anticipate submitting these data for regulatory review before the end of the year.

As we announced last quarter, our combination therapy containing grazoprevir and elbasvir for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection is undergoing priority review in the United States, with a PDUFA date of January 28, and accelerated assessment in the European Union. Regulatory agencies are making good progress in reviewing our files, and we are responding to questions from both FDA and the CHMP. Additional data from our hepatitis C virus program will be presented at the Liver Disease meetings next month, including the efficacy of grazoprevir/elbasvir in more challenging patient populations and phase 2 data from the analysis of our nucleoside polymerase inhibitor MK-3682 used in combination with grazoprevir/elbasvir and other agents in our antiviral arsenal, including MK-8408, an especially potent inhibitor.

Our program is based on the idea that we can advance an antiviral regimen with broad activity across HCV genotypes and that can be used in patients irrespective of comorbidities, with shorter courses of therapy designed to improve adherence. Using this approach, we are optimistic that substantial control of HCV-imposed liver disease can be achieved for tens of millions of infected patients around the world.

During the third quarter, we received a marketing authorization in Japan for MARIZEV, our once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor generically known as omarigliptin. We continue to assemble data supporting the filing of omarigliptin in the United States, which we plan to complete before the end of the year.

In the area of cardiovascular medicine we are working with our partner, Bayer, to evaluate data obtained from a phase 2b study of vericiguat in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. We expect to have the opportunity to present these data at upcoming scientific meetings and are considering various options for registration-enabling clinical trials.

With respect to anacetrapib, our potent once-daily CETP inhibitor, we are obviously aware of the termination of Lilly's phase 3 study of evacetrapib, another CETP inhibitor, for futility. In a sense, this result increases the importance of our large phase 3 outcome study called REVEAL. Our IMPROVE-IT data, which became available a year ago, demonstrated that reductions in serum LDL cholesterol levels, whether achieved using statins or use of the cholesterol absorption inhibitor ezetimibe, had predictable and similar effects on the risk of major cardiovascular events.

Since CETP inhibitors also dramatically reduce serum LDL cholesterol levels, it is now especially important to know whether this biochemical effect is associated with lower cardiovascular risk. Our REVEAL study is explicitly powered to see this effect.

Six months ago, we reported that the REVEAL Steering Committee wished to adjust the primary endpoint to substitute ischemic stroke for revascularization, reflecting evidence from IMPROVE-IT, where a benefit was observed on the incidence of this more easily adjudicated endpoint. After discussions with regulatory agencies, however, this change was deemed inadvisable. Hence, as of today, the Steering Committee plans to continue along the path originally outlined in the study protocol. There will be an interim analysis before the end of the year, and in light of the results obtained with evacetrapib, it is anticipated that a futility component will be included in this analysis.

We achieved meaningful progress in many other important programs in the third quarter, including completion of enrollment in our Phase 3 mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease study with verubecestat, our highly potent BACE inhibitor; completion of enrollment of all 11 of our phase 3 studies for ertugliflozin; a collaborative effort with Pfizer to develop a novel SGLT2 inhibitor; and commitment to regulatory filing of two new diabetes programs, omarigliptin in the United States and insulin glargine, which we are pursuing in collaboration with our colleagues at Samsung Bioepis.

However, I would like to close by again acknowledging Dr. William C. Campbell, who will receive the 2015 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for research conducted in collaboration with Dr. Satoshi Omura of Japan. Dr. Campbell performed his Nobel Prize-winning work, identifying the parasiticide avermectin, here at Merck, where he was employed from 1957 until 1990. Dr. Campbell's steadfast commitment to fundamental research has preserved the sight of millions of people around the globe, people who were otherwise condemned to early blindness from onchocerciasis.

My colleagues and I at Merck Research Laboratories, including quite a few who overlapped with Dr. Campbell at our Rahway site, offer our congratulations for this important and well-deserved recognition of his accomplishments. I'll now turn the call back to Teri.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Roger. Darla, we're ready to move on to the Q&A portion of the call.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks very much for the questions. First one is, can you just elaborate a little bit more on your view of JANUVIA and the broader oral diabetes landscape following the recent SGLT2 outcomes data? Do you see incremental pressure to this franchise as that data is reflected on competitor labels? And then maybe as a follow-up to that, can you just update the timelines of your SGLT2 and when you'll have outcomes data?

My second question was on KEYTRUDA and lung and the commercial dynamics based on the recent approval and now that the KEYNOTE-010 study -- just how do you see the dynamics playing out here relative to Bristol given the label differences between the products and just given the various moving pieces of these two products? I'd just like to understand a little bit how you're thinking about the coming quarters on that one. Thanks so much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes. This is Adam, Chris. I'll start off by reviewing JANUVIA, and then I'll give some color on lung. But I'll also ask Roger to jump in on our SGLT2 question.

If you look at JANUVIA, we continue to be pleased with the underlying demand in the US, where we are seeing about 4% TRx volume growth, and that's been consistent since before EMPA-REG and after EMPA-REG. And if you look at the most recent current week, it's just over 3% still. So we're seeing the underlying volume continue to be strong.

If you look at what's occurring in the marketplace, and you look at NBRx data, which is like real early data to try to understand the dynamics early in the marketplace, we see switching that's occurring within the SGLT2 class, but we do not see switching occurring across classes at this point in time. We believe that this market is very big. It requires multiple medications for people over time. And we believe that JANUVIA will maintain a very strong add-on position as we go into the future. So we remain optimistic about the promise of JANUVIA into the marketplace.

We're not giving 2016 guidance today. As I look at managed care, those decisions have been made for 2016, and I'll say that our formulary position in 2016 remains strong and very similar to what it was in 2015.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes. And Chris, it's Roger. With respect to the timing of SGLT2 results for ertugliflozin, as I indicated, all 11 of our studies are fully enrolled and data will begin to rollout from those studies in 2016.

We do have a cardiovascular outcome study. Those studies obviously take a longer period of time. The expectation for those studies is that data will be available around the 2019 timeframe.

But of course, in light of the results that were obtained by Lilly-BI, the EMPA-REG study, as we look at those results, there's interest in asking the more explicit question of whether ertugliflozin has the same kinds of effects on cardiovascular mortality, which could result in a slight change in the way we conduct our outcome study. And we'll have more commentary on that later. We're reviewing those issues, but that's basically where we stand at this point.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And then, Chris, with regard to your question on lung for a KEYTRUDA, so when we built the oncology business unit, we built it to maximize KEYTRUDA over the long term. And just like you saw we were ready to launch melanoma, we were just as ready to launch lung. So we think that lung cancer is a very significant opportunity for KEYTRUDA, and we think there is room for multiple products with KEYTRUDA and Opdivo in that market.

If you look, we're still early in the launch, but we are encouraged by customer feedback, and just days after the approval, we got to 100% of our top 150 accounts, and we had over 5,500 customer interactions. And we're confident that the uptake will be good over time as customers build in PD-L1 testing as a common practice.

And I think that's probably what your question is getting to with PD-L1 testing versus not testing for lung. And what I'd like to say about that is, as you think about diagnostic testing, it's very common today for lung cancer. It's become standard and widespread for HER2, ALK, and EGFR. So we believe that it will be standard over time for PD-L1. It's going to take time for it to become standard.

But our execution by our teams and the partners at Dako was very strong, along with our leading diagnostic centers, and we actually had the companion diagnostic available and accessible for patient sampling day one at the time of launch. So it allows the physicians to really have a different conversation with patients depending on their PD-L1 expression. And I think that's important when you start to see the differences between low PD-L1 expressors and high PD-L1 expressors. It allows physicians to have better conversations.

So as we've said before, this is going to play out over time. Lung is an important indication. We think there's room for multiple drugs. We think PD-L1 testing over time will become increasingly important. And we're confident about KEYTRUDA moving forward.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And just to emphasize what Adam said, there is no doubt that a PD-L1 expression, while an imperfect biomarker, does have predictive value in the lung cancer setting with respect to responses to anti-PD-1 therapy, and that has been observed. Although we've pioneered those studies, that's been observed by everyone who's looked at this kind of therapy.

TERI LOXAM: Darla, if you could move onto the next question please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hi. Going back to KEYTRUDA, do you anticipate that in the US, you'll get reimbursed either by Medicare or by private payers in PD-L1 negative patients. The NCCN Compendium came out just in the last couple of days, and it recommends your drug and PD-L1 positive patients. It doesn't specify any cutoff for that positivity, so it's a fair chunk of patients. But I'm wondering from here if you can actually -- if you think you can negotiate with payers such that you will actually get broad coverage which would go above and beyond what NCCN recommends or what your label actually recommends.

And then another question on hep C, just talking about commercially how the doublet might play into existing therapies that are out there. Can you make any directional comments at all on pricing, for example. My guess is that as a later entrant in the category, you might have to come in at a discount. Ken, I think in certain settings, you've implied that may not happen and that you may not play the price card, but can you talk about how you view the competitive dynamics in that category, with your doublet specifically, as you go into 2016?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Tim. This is Adam. So I'll start with, obviously, the NCCN guidelines were just updated. We received the information last Friday evening, and it's done by outside agency with a no input from us. And we do see that they recommended KEYTRUDA side by side with nivo as a preferred option and treatment of algorithm for second line non-small lung.

The updates are very recent. We expect that payers will take some time to interpret the guidelines on how they'll reimburse the use of KEYTRUDA. But anecdotally, when we've talked to customers, they are going to file and NCCN. They will not go outside of NCCN. So we think that this is positive. We also think the fact that we now have the new KEYNOTE-010 data will help us in the future as well because these guidelines were issued Friday night before we even put the top-line results out on Monday. So that's where we are with NCCN.

What I'd like to do now is give you a sense of hepatitis C. And we know this market, and we know the players, and we know that mass care organizations very, very well. We have a very long legacy in HCV with interferon, and I think you saw our ability to execute with VICTRELIS. And we've had great success in the past. We expect to have success in the future.

You see from the phase 3 data, we believe we have an innovative, broadly competitive regimen, and there may be some advantages in some patient types, particularly CKD, patients and we believe that our data in cirrhotics is particularly strong. So I don't want to give specifics about pricing strategies and contracting strategies, as I'm sure the competition would love to know what we are thinking there, but what I would say is that we intend to be serious about coming into this market strong, and we think there's a real opportunity for us.

TERI LOXAM: Next question please, Darla.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hey, guys. Actually, I just had some IMAX questions for Teri. Is she there? (Laughter) I have been having trouble getting tickets to the latest Avengers movie, and anyway -- Thank you very much for calling on me, and welcome, Teri. It's great to have you there.

A lot of my questions have been asked, and so what I'll do is try to re-ask some to see if I can get better answers and ask some different ones. First, on hep C pricing, Adam, just obviously, you're not -- it's not in a shareholder's interest or your interest to tip your hat on this, but the reason people are asking is that AbbVie, weeks before their negotiations with Express Scripts was saying -- Rick Gonzales was saying things like, we don't think we're going to really be using pricing, Mark, and then they cut price 50%.

So I'm just asking you, can you reassure the market, when you think about the hep C pricing, your internal hep C pricing scenarios, that something like a 50% cut isn't what you're thinking. It's more incremental. And you don't have to give us that number. Even that I think would relieve a lot of the, perhaps, pressure.

And then a question on biosimilar REMICADE. I may have missed this. I had to hop off the call for a few minutes. But can you update us on market shares, Pan-European market shares for biosimilar REMICADE, and what the average price discount is to branded REMICADE in tender and nontender markets, or perhaps even both combined?

And the last one is for Ken, and just big balance sheet, M&A, a lot of targets out there you have been quite inactive since Cubist. Like to know if you, now that prices have come down 30% in biotech, if you rev any engines. Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Okay. So let me give it a start, Mark, and I'll say with hepatitis C, I don't want to give specifics, but all I'll say is when you have what is perceived to be an inferior profile in the marketplace, as I think AbbVie's product was, you may have a different strategy when you have a product that you think is competitive in the marketplace, and we believe that we have a competitive profile to be able to be successful in the marketplace.

With regard to biosimilar REMICADE, we are seeing most discounts of 30% to 45%, maybe a little bit higher in some of the countries where there's been a biosimilars for a longer period of time than in core Europe. If you look at our market share, we have about a 90% market share as we go through the third quarter. That's down from about a 95% market share the prior quarter. And we believe that the pressure will continue because we've been able to hold onto a lot of the existing patients that are well controlled, and physicians don't want to switch.

But we are starting to lose more and more new patients, and new patients, as you know, become more of a percent of the total as you go longer over time. So it would be a bit gradual, but it's going to continue to have impact. About 10% to 20% of the business per year is in new patients, just to give you a sense.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, Mark. And on business development, let me just be really clear. We are very committed to doing the right kind of deals to create value for our shareholders and that augment our pipeline with programs that, as Roger would say, provide an unambiguous promotable advantage. That's what we've been doing over the past couple of years. You've seen Idenix, Cubist, OncoEthix, cCAM Biotherapeutics, just to name a few.

We're also, today, very confident that we have the right balance sheet to do whatever size deal we need to do, whether it's M&A or licensing. We've been very clear in the past that our preference is for bolt-on deals rather than the large consolidation-type mergers. But the fact of the matter is, we will continue to pursue pipeline assets on a selective basis, meaning they have to be really important scientific breakthroughs, and they also have to be capable of being acquired at a price that's valuable for our shareholders.

And to your point, we have seen values go down over the last few weeks, and we're going to continue to look for those opportunities. So we are committed to it. Don't think if you haven't seen anything in the last couple of quarters that that reflects any change whatsoever in our perspective.

TERI LOXAM: Darla, we'll go on to the next one.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Ken, a question for you. Just given the increasing pricing debate in the market, I'm just wondering if you can -- I'm interested in your perspective and what you think happens to drug list price versus realized price. Clearly, we have seen price increases increase over time, but we've also seen the phenomenon of increased rebates and discounts.

So just given the increased focus on pricing, given the campaign rhetoric, which doesn't appear to be dying down anytime soon, how do you expect the industry to respond to this growing debate? And I'm also surprised that the industry has been so silent given all of the headline news. And I know that you have a leadership position within the industry and what your plans are to defend industry practices.

And Roger, for you, just on the anacetrapib interim later this year -- did you say later this year or early next, the interim in futility? Are we going to -- if the decision is to continue with the trial, are you going to let us know, or is no news good news in this case? How should we think about it? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay --

TERI LOXAM: We'll start with pricing.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me start with pricing. Good morning, Jami.

JAMI RUBIN: Good morning.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me first remind everybody what I think is the most important thing, which is that we are, at Merck, entering a period of unprecedented advances in human biology, and we have immense opportunities to advance patient care as well as public health. Unfortunately, I think the current discussion around pricing fails to account for the fact that this industry is hardly homogeneous.

There are a lot of companies, as you know, that purchase drugs. Many of them are older drugs. They raise the prices to whatever they feel the market will bear, while significantly reducing or eliminating investment in R&D.

Merck has not been that kind of Company. Obviously, we invest in R&D to bring forward important products like KEYTRUDA. But we've also tried to approach pricing from the perspective of value.

And I recently had the opportunity to actually meet with the President of the United States in his office, and we had this conversation. And I think there's a lot of our rhetoric around the industry. As the leader of PhRMA, I try very hard to distinguish between in the innovation-based companies that do take a value approach to pricing and a few companies that I think are unrepresentative of the entire industry.

If you don't see it in the newspapers, recognize that there's a little bit of a filter between what we say and what actually gets reported in the newspapers, but we're going to continue to make that point, and I have to say that I believe that while there's a lot of noise out there, my experience in Washington is that people do recognize that this industry is important, that these innovations are critical to society, that we, for example, need a disease-modifying agent for Alzheimer's. People see what these immuno-oncolocy drugs are doing, and they know that that's just the beginning of what we can do as an industry.

So I think you have to separate a little bit of the rhetoric in the newspaper reports from the fact that I think there's a lot of rationality in public policy, and people recognize that this is an industry that contributes greatly to global society, is one of the strongest industries in the US economy.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Ken. Roger, do you want to comment on anacetrapib?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes. Jami, in light of the evacetrapib futility results, that -- there will be a futility analysis incorporated into the interim analysis of anacetrapib, which will be conducted before the end of this year. And obviously, if we were to decide that -- if our Steering Committee came back and said that it is futile, obviously, we will announce that. If they don't, then we will announce in the appropriate forum that the study is continuing.

I wouldn't over interpret that though. I wouldn't look at that and say, oh, that means it must be working. What it means is it's not futile; it could work. And so it will be one or the other results. I think it is important to include, and I've made the point in talking with Steering Committee members, that it is important to include this kind of analysis because we wouldn't want to be exposing people to the drug if there's no hope of showing a benefit.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Roger. Darla, let's move onto the next one, please.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. First, you mentioned the diabetes franchise was a little weak in Japan. Can you talk about what's going on there? And is that because you have this new product, the once weekly, that just got approved? Was that having any impact, and how you think that plays out over there?

And then second, can you talk about the gross margin a little bit, just the underlying gross margin, what's being impacted by currency, what's going on there, and how you're thinking about that? And no one's really asked about expenses. Maybe you can talk about just of the underlying numbers. Is this a good run rate to be thinking about for how Merck is spending? What are some of the push-pulls on spending over the next 12 months? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Mark, I'll cover the question on diabetes in Japan. Japan remains a very important market. In fact, if you look at DPP-4 inhibitors, it's one of the few markets in the world where DPP-4 inhibitors actually have more patient days of therapy than metformin does, or sulphonylureas.

So it's always been a very fast uptake market for a DPP-4 use, and for JANUVIA, we have a very high share. So the issue there is it's harder to grow because you can't take share away from sulphonylureas as much because you already have the leading product in the marketplace.

We are launching our once weekly, and we think that could be a very important product. It's on a two-week prescription limit right now, but that, over time, will be removed. And we think that that will help us potentially expand the DPP-4 class even in (inaudible) lines of treatment. Overall, it was down about 2% versus prior year in Japan, so it wasn't a significant decrease versus the prior year, and part of that is also customer timing.

ROB DAVIS: And with regard to your question on gross margins, so if you look at the drivers of gross margin, by far the largest driver was the fact that we had lower inventory write-offs than we've had in the past, so that was the single biggest item. FX was favorable in the quarter in the margin, but again, the bigger driver was inventory write-offs. And also, recall that part of why we're seeing a lift in gross margin year on year is the fact that with the divestitures we did last year, primarily MCC, you did get a favorable lift as a result of just the mix of those businesses.

If you look from expense perspective, recall that as I mentioned in the prepared remarks, we did meet and we are exceeding our target of $2.5 billion of expense reduction relative to our 2012 base, so we've delivered on what we expected to do there. If you look at what's happening on a spend basis, obviously, we are investing in R&D, and in fact, R&D was up a little bit. It was funded by overall reductions across marketing and administrative spend.

I don't want to get into specific guidance as you look forward, but to say we continue to be committed to driving a leveraged P&L as we look into the future, balancing the need to drive cost reductions as an ongoing part of the business, really with a focus more and how do we drive productivity as we invest in the future around key new product launches, and obviously, the R&D pipeline and what we have coming there. So I would say our story is really shifting from absolute cost reduction to productivity, and leverage going forward is the way I would look at it.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Rob. Darla, let's move onto the next one.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good quarter and a KEYTRUDA progress. Just following up on KEYTRUDA, do you anticipate that most of the PD-L1 testing in lung cancer will be done with the diagnostic test that was approved with KEYTRUDA, or will it depend on which test the lab chooses, because your label is obviously not restricted?

And a follow-up for Roger. Apologies if I missed it, but when can we expect data for your next-generation immuno-oncolocy product? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: I'll start off with the question on the testing. I think right now, a lot of the PD-L1 testing, particularly outside of the large hospitals, institutions will be done through the approved PD-L1 tests that are available. I do think even today, some of the large institutions are doing their own PD-L1 testing. So I think over time, it's very common for multiple tests to be available in the marketplace for various things like HER2 and so forth, and I think that there will be multiple different tests, and the hospital and the physicians will choose which ones they use in the future.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Alex, it's Roger. I assume you want clinical data for next-generation immuno-oncolocy products, and we have several. But for example, we have an anti-GITR antibody, which and agonist antibody immune manipulator. We also have the cCAM antibody that we acquired. And both of those are in phase 1 clinical studies, the GITR antibody also in combination with KEYTRUDA, so we'll have the opportunity to see those data in 2016.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Roger. Darla, let's move onto the next one.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks very much for taking the question. So just a few here. First off, could you guys update us on why the Incyte agreement didn't include lung? Should we assume that lung is excluded from this, or is that something that may require some additional negotiation going forward, or is that -- should we think of that as still a potential shot on goal for Merck?

Second, can you talk a little bit more about the SGLT2 programs? When might we see data from those, and should we expect a filing in 2016? And if you could just let us know if that would include the single-pill combination or if that would be filed separately, that would be great.

And then the last question, really, is on other indications for KEYTRUDA. You have an awful lot of patients in clinical trials and ongoing. Roger, you mentioned the opportunity to potentially see gastric cancer approval of KEYTRUDA in Japan sooner than I think many of us expect. So what other areas should we be thinking about in terms of additional KEYTRUDA filings, or at least additional data or tumor types where you think Merck has a lead or a potential advantage?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Right. So Seamus, first of all, with respect to the Incyte agreement, we have the bulk of data from the combination of KEYTRUDA with their IDO1 inhibitor in melanoma. And based on those data, you'll have a chance to see some of those data at the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer meeting, as I mentioned, in November. Based on those data, we together wanted very much to proceed into a late development, and that's what we're going to do.

The agreement that we announced is about that, but it doesn't preclude doing other kinds of studies. And indeed, we have ongoing studies looking at other tumor types. So we'll get more information about that, and that will be helpful.

With respect to ertugliflozin, our SGLT2 inhibitor program with Pfizer, again, all of the phase 3 programs, all 11 are enrolled. Data will start rolling in. We'll have data in 2016. The filing will include the combination. It's not just by itself. And we do expect -- we will decide on it, the filing, based, of course, on what the data look like, but certainly, we hope that the data will look good, that we would be able to file the entire package in 2016.

And then the last question was other indications for KEYTRUDA. And there again, we have registration-enabling studies going on in more than 10 different tumor types, and an awful lot of new data become available, actually, on an almost weekly basis because we have so many different studies going on. But I would highlight to you that we have a lot of good data already in head and neck cancer, in bladder cancer. We're developing the drug in triple-negative breast cancer. We're developing the drug in classical Hodgkin's lymphoma, esophageal cancer, gastric cancer, as I mentioned.

So as you can see, there's a lot going on, and where we see opportunities to pursue an accelerated approval pathway, we're certainly interested in that, but we're also, of course, doing more conventional studies, including studies in which we're looking at the question of whether or not we can identify biomarkers like microsatellite instability that permit us to gain access and bring benefit to an awful lot more patients with other tumors, so it's a broad portfolio.

TERI LOXAM: Thanks, Roger. Darla, I know we're starting to run out of time. We're going to try to squeeze in two more questions if we can keep them short. And if we have time, we'll try to squeeze in another one. But let's move onto the next one.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Great. I will cut my eight-part question to six. Just kidding. So very quickly, could you just rephrase what the proposed anacetrapib study change was that, I think, Roger you said was rejected by the FDA or something like that?

Second, with respect to the BACE interim look, when is that interim look, and does it include a futility analysis? And then third, could you just update us on the timing of Gardasil safety updates in Japan and the UK?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So David, with respect to anacetrapib, the critical issue was to change the primary endpoint of the REVEAL study to include ischemic stroke as a component of the composite endpoint rather than revascularization because ischemic stroke is both a more explicit end point to test, and in addition, is something that we know from the IMPROVE-IT study was associated with cholesterol reduction.

Regulatory agencies were not comfortable with the idea of changing the primary endpoint, that perhaps, not surprisingly, while it is at the sponsor's discretion to do those kinds of things, I think the feeling after the discussions on the part of the Steering Committee was that that wouldn't be the way to go forward and we would stick with the primary endpoint as originally constituted. So that program moves forward.

And with respect to the BACE program, we have completed enrollment in the mild to moderate study. I should -- I would expect that study to proceed to completion. So you can anticipate that that study will proceed to completion. We'd hope to have data available in the 2017 timeframe.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And David, with regard to Gardasil, and we continue to work with our customers and the government in Japan. We are confident in the efficacy and the safety of the product, and we continue to have active discussions with them and provide them whatever data they would like to have.

TERI LOXAM: And I think we are almost out of time, but let's try to squeeze in one more really quickly, and then I want to be sensitive to the time given all the other calls going on today.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions, and congratulations on the results today. One thing that appeared to be really robust in the quarter were obviously JANUVIA / JANUMET sales relative to how we projected them. Just has to do with realized the sales and your contracting strategy in the US. Have you recently implemented anything on that in the way you're accounting for discounts and rebates? And are you able to realize a higher level of net sales as a result of anything that you're doing on the accounting on JANUVIA and JANUMET?

And then secondly, on ertugliflozin, can you maybe just outline what you view, aside from developing a combo pills, as the key points of differentiation relative to the other competitors, and just any thoughts on how you are designing your outcome study that would be required for that product? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So John, this is Adam, and I want to make sure I'm really clear about JANUVIA . What I look at first is TRx volume growth, and in the United States we saw a 4% TRx volume growth. But we also saw timing of customer buying patterns that caused about $100 million of increased sales in this quarter, and those will come out in the fourth quarter or subsequent quarters.

We had increased price last year in the third quarter, and we saw customers draw down their inventories. This year in the third quarter, we did not increase price, so we saw inventory levels remain at higher levels. JANUVIA is just a very big product, and a few days of inventory in one direction or another can impact reported sales significantly, so that's why you saw that difference of $100 million from -- versus the prior year.

And then with regard to -- and by the way, there's no change in terms of accounting or the rebates or discounts. Those are all consistent. What you're seeing is this timing of when we took price last year versus this year; that's all. It's just -- and that's why I seek to monitor the volume, and we're very pleased with the volume. We feel good about the volume going into fourth quarter and the volume going into 2016.

TERI LOXAM: Roger you want to comment really (multiple speakers) --?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, John, with respect to ertugliflozin, the -- what I've said from the very beginning is when we partnered with Pfizer on the drug is this is a drug that has extremely good pharmaceutical properties, and hence, it can be paired easily. It plays nicely with others. And so the most important attribute of the drug is our ability to formulate it together with JANUVIA and develop it in that context.

With respect to the outcome studies, the data that are available from EMPA-REG obviously influence the way we think about those outcome studies, and so we're looking at that carefully to ask the question, what do we need to do to ensure the outcome study provides a satisfactory test of whether ertugliflozin also reduces cardiovascular mortality in the way that was seen in EMPA-REG?

KEN FRAZIER: Just in closing, this quarter saw very strong performance for key drugs like JANUVIA and KEYTRUDA. We are looking forward to launching in the hepatitis C space and the lung space, and we feel there's good momentum for the business. Take care. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's Q3 2015 sales and earnings call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gdias : Diabetes | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151028ebar000ma
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,780 words
   PD
28 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to Merck's second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn your call over to Joseph Romanelli, VP of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
JOSEPH ROMANELLI, VP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Darla and good morning, everyone. We would also like to say good afternoon and good evening to everyone listening outside the United States. Welcome to Merck's second-quarter 2015 conference call.

Before I turn the call over to Ken, I just want to point out a couple of items. First, you will see that we have items in our GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we've excluded those items from our non-GAAP results. There are reconciliation tables available in our press release so that you can get a better understanding of their underlying performance.

We've also provided tables to help you understand the sales results in the quarter for the business units, as well for the products. This can be found in Table 3 of our press release and the reconciliation tables I mentioned earlier are on Table 2 of the press release. During the call, we will be referring to Table 2 for the P&L and Table 3 as it relates to revenue.

Second, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current belief of Merck's management and are subject to significant risk and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2014 10-K identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements and you can see our SEC filings, as well as today's earning release on Merck.com.

So with that, this morning, I'm joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health; Rob Davis, our Chief Financial Officer; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Labs. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Ken. Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Joe. Good morning, everyone. Thank you all for joining the call today. Before I discuss our quarterly performance, I want to take a moment to thank Joe Romanelli for ably leading our investor relations efforts for the past two years. Joe is moving on from explaining our numbers to a role in which he will be generating revenue as Managing Director for our business in Taiwan and Hong Kong. We have benefited from Joe's expertise and leadership and he has done an outstanding job. We wish him and his family all the best as they relocate to Asia. Thank you, Joe.

I'm also pleased that joining the call today is Joe's successor, Teri Loxam. Teri comes to Merck with a wealth of experience in finance and investor relations and has worked in the pharmaceutical, entertainment and investment banking industries. Welcome to Merck, Teri. We are pleased to have you on our team.

This is an exciting time for Merck as we advance our promising pipeline and launch new products in the marketplace. It is also a propitious time for biomedical research generally as we are witnessing the introduction of breakthrough therapies and in some cases cures for some of the most difficult-to-treat diseases.

Merck's late-stage pipeline and ongoing launches reflect scientific and therapeutic progress that will provide significant value to patients in society. Over the past few months, I've seen and heard first-hand from stakeholders across the healthcare ecosystem, including patients, payers and government, about the critical impact that our current and future medicines and vaccines can have on improving the health and productivity of both individuals and populations.

These experiences continue to reinforce my conviction that in the evolving healthcare environment success will accrue to those who develop products that not only enable patients to live longer, more productive lives, but that also can help reduce overall healthcare expenditures. By bringing forward these kinds of medical innovations, Merck will create sustainable value for society and shareholders.

Turning to our second-quarter performance, we built on the strong momentum achieved earlier in the year by executing well on our focused and discipline strategy. Global Human Health delivered top-line growth in our four core areas of oncology, hospital acute care, diabetes and vaccines.

Our Animal Health business also grew 10% due in part to the strong growth of BRAVECTO. We are investing resources to grow our strongest brands and to support the most promising assets in our pipeline while at the same time lowering our overall cost base and delivering a leveraged P&L.

Merck is active in many of the most promising areas of science and medicine, including oncology, antibiotic resistance, cardiometabolic disease, hepatitis C and Alzheimer's disease. The progress we continue to make with our pipeline reflects this.

We are advancing both our KEYTRUDA and hep C programs, two of our most important assets. As we move into the second half of 2015, our organization is preparing for these exciting opportunities. Last month, the FDA accepted our supplemental BLA for KEYTRUDA in advanced non-small cell lung cancer and granted KEYTRUDA priority review. And just this past week, the European Commission approved KEYTRUDA for the treatment of advanced melanoma in adults both as a first-line therapy and in previously treated patients.

Earlier today, we announced that the FDA has accepted under priority review the new drug application for our doublet regimen for the treatment of adult patients infected with hepatitis C. Last week, the European Medicines Agency also accepted our application, which they will review on an accelerated basis. Roger will discuss our KEYTRUDA and hep C programs in greater detail later in the call.

I am pleased with the progress we've made with our key pipeline assets. I'm also encouraged by our underlying commercial performance, which Adam will discuss in more detail shortly. We achieved solid growth in both our human and animal health businesses and in particular in our diabetes franchise where we saw 9% growth. We also continue to make progress with the recent introductions of KEYTRUDA, BELSOMRA, ZERBAXA and Gardasil 9, each of which provides an important treatment option for unmet medical need.

The growth of an established brand like Januvia and the successful launch of KEYTRUDA in the competitive melanoma field are examples of how we are bringing greater discipline, focus and execution across our business and especially in those areas where we have the greatest opportunities to grow and to lead.

In closing, Merck is positioned to build on the strong momentum we've achieved during the first half of the year. Going forward, we will focus on the best scientific and medical innovations, sourced both internally and externally, because we believe that is the best path to long-term value creation.

By capitalizing on the significant and exciting scientific and clinical opportunities that lie ahead, Merck intends to play a major role in transforming healthcare for the benefit of patients, payers and shareholders alike. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken and good morning, everyone. This morning, I'll discuss the second-quarter results for Global Human Health and my comments will be on a constant currency basis. Our performance in the quarter reflects continued efforts to drive growth within our core business, coupled with increasing contributions from new product launches. Sales increased 3% with growth in all of our core focus areas of diabetes, hospital acute care, vaccines and oncology. Collectively, these core focus areas grew 9%, excluding the acquisition of Cubist.

I'll start by reviewing the performance of several key products followed by a brief update by region and then on several launched products. Starting with the Januvia franchise, we delivered our seventh straight quarter of growth. We have steadily increased resources for Januvia to drive growth and our results reflect the positive impact of our strategic resource allocation and the strength of the products.

In the second quarter, the Januvia franchise sales reached approximately $1.6 billion and grew 9%. In the United States, sales grew 14%. While we continue to drive underlying volume growth of about 4%, we had some benefits this quarter from adjustments to rebate accruals.

In the international markets, sales grew 4%. Volume growth in Europe was a key contributor to performance and emerging markets delivered steady double-digit growth. Also, we are pleased that the data presented from the TECOS study at the American Diabetes Association meeting last month confirmed that Januvia did not increase the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events or hospitalization for heart failure. We are now educating customers on these important results.

Sales of ZETIA and VYTORIN declined 8%. In the United States, ZETIA was flat offset by declines in VYTORIN. Outside the US, sales fell as a result of ZETIA's loss of exclusivity in Canada and prescription initiation restrictions in France.

Next, in Hospital and Specialty Care, sales of ISENTRESS decreased 10% to approximately $375 million. We are starting to see the impact of slowing growth of the integrase class and continued competitive dynamics in the US and Europe. We are also having a difficult year-over-year comparison versus second quarter of 2014 in the emerging markets due to tenders.

In immunology, sales of Remicade and Simponi were approximately $625 million, a decline of 1%. Continued growth in Simponi of about 20% was offset by a 7% decline in Remicade. As expected, we are seeing additional competition from biosimilars in the first full quarter since loss of exclusivity. We expect declines in Remicade to accelerate in the back half of this year as tenders are implemented in core markets.

In Hospital Acute Care, sales grew to approximately $930 million. We drove double-digit growth across our portfolio. As a leader in Hospital Acute Care, we are enthusiastic about diversity and the breadth of our underlying business and the promising launch opportunities that we are executing on today and planning for in the future.

Turning to the vaccine business, vaccine sales were about $1.2 billion, up 1% versus the prior year. Growth in the Gardasil franchise was offset by a decline in sales of RotaTeq due to the timing of public sector purchases in the United States. Combined sales of Gardasil and Gardasil 9 grew 6% to approximately $425 million on contributions from the United States and emerging markets. We continue to transition customers to Gardasil 9 and managed care coverage is now similar to that of Gardasil.

Sales of Zostavax were approximately $150 million, a decline of 3%. In the US, sales declined 8%. We continued to work with customers to help them understand the broad managed care coverage and the process for obtaining reimbursement. Also, we will be launching a new DTC campaign for Zostavax in the United States during the start of flu season. This new campaign will focus on increasing brand awareness and patient activation. Outside of the US, Canada drove sales growth. We are continuing to launch Zostavax in more than 25 markets.

Now I'll provide some geographic commentary for the quarter. In the United States, excluding Cubist, sales increased 5% primarily from growth in the Januvia franchise, oncology and hospital acute care. In Europe and Canada, sales decreased 8%. Growth from the Januvia franchise and Simponi was offset by ophthalmology product divestitures, declines in Remicade and declines in ZETIA and VYTORIN.

Japan sales declined 13% primarily from ophthalmology product divestitures and declines in older diversified products. Pneumovax grew on a continued rollout of a national immunization program. Emerging markets sales grew 4%. If you exclude divestitures, sales would have grown 6%. China grew 8% this quarter driven by sales increases in Hospital Acute Care.

Now I'll provide some updates on a few of our key launches and I'll start with BELSOMRA. We are encouraged by results in the early months of the BELSOMRA launch in the United States. Demand for this new medicine is steadily increasing. From an access perspective, BELSOMRA is now covered by commercial payers representing over 100 million lives. Next week, we will begin a branded DTC campaign to enhance consumer awareness.

With ZERBAXA, customer feedback in the early launch is positive. Over 300 hospitals have placed ZERBAXA on formulary. Looking ahead, we are intensifying our focus on increasing access while at the same time driving greater utilization in hospitals where ZERBAXA is on formulary.

In addition, we saw another strong performance for KEYTRUDA with sales reaching $110 million. In the United States, we achieved more than 60% patient share in ipi-refractory melanoma, a testament to our team's strong launch execution. KEYTRUDA is now the number one therapy used to treat melanoma in the US.

Importantly, as we speak, we are launching KEYTRUDA in the EU where the product is approved for use in advanced first and second-line melanoma. The deep clinical experience physicians are gaining through the KEYTRUDA launch in melanoma is building a solid foundation, particularly in the community setting, for potential launches in lung cancer and also other cancers. With an October 2 PDUFA date, our teams are ready for a potential launch in patients with advanced squamous and non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer.

Finally, now that our HCV doublet has priority review with the FDA and accelerated assessment in the EU, we are very much looking forward to launching this important product next year.

In summary, Global Human Health delivered another solid performance in the quarter. We grew through execution in all of our core focus areas of diabetes, hospital acute care, vaccines and oncology. We are gaining traction with key launches that will help to drive future growth. Now I'll turn the call over to my colleague, Rob Davis.

ROB DAVIS, EVP & CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Adam. Good morning, everyone. As Ken and Adam stated, our results this quarter and for the first half of the year show that we are executing the focused strategy we first outlined nearly two years ago. We're driving top-line growth in core therapeutic areas and delivering a leveraged P&L. This morning, I will provide some additional detail on the quarter and comment on our outlook for the second half of the year. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials.

Total Company revenues were $9.8 billion for the quarter, a decrease of 11% year-over-year while the underlying base business grew 3%. This excludes a negative 7 percentage point impact from foreign exchange and a net negative 7 percentage point impact from acquisitions, divestitures and the now ended AstraZeneca JV.

I should note that the impact from foreign exchange includes the benefit of approximately $190 million of revenue from our hedging program. Growth overall was properly driven by four core focus areas of diabetes, hospital acute care, oncology and vaccines in our pharmaceutical business and by the 10% growth in our animal health business.

Moving now to expenses, gross margin was 75.4% in the quarter, an increase of 280 basis points year-over-year. Lower inventory write-offs and foreign exchange provided the primary benefit in the quarter. Total operating expenses were $463 million lower this quarter, primarily driven by marketing and administrative expenses, which declined 15% versus prior year due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange, net favorability from acquisitions and divestitures and lower direct selling costs.

Research and development expenses declined 2% as increased spending in the quarter was more than offset by foreign exchange. With our ongoing cost reductions, we are on track to meet or exceed the $2.5 billion in savings versus 2012 by the end of this year.

Finally, our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 26%. The 180 basis point increase versus the prior year primarily reflects a discrete item recorded this quarter related to an adjustment for deferred taxes associated with restructuring activities.

Overall, we earned $0.86 per share in the second quarter delivering 1% growth despite meaningful headwinds from foreign exchange and the net negative impact of acquisitions, divestitures and the now ended AstraZeneca JV. Our commitment to expense management coupled with focused investments in key brands continues to produce results.

Now turning to the outlook for the remainder of 2015. Accounting for our performance in the first half of the year, we are updating our top-line revenue guidance to a range of $38.6 billion to $39.8 billion. While we feel comfortable moving to a midpoint of $39.2 billion for the full year 2015, we feel the range is appropriate due to the potential impact of foreign exchange volatility.

Moving to PGM, we expect full-year gross margin to be approximately 125 basis points higher versus 2014. We continue to expect an overall decrease in operating expenses as lower marketing and administrative expenses are partially offset by a modest increase in research and development expense. Altogether we anticipate total operating expenses in the second half of 2015 to be approximately $200 million lower than in the prior year.

Regarding our non-GAAP effective tax rate, we now expect the full-year effective tax rate will be between 23% and 24% as we account for the higher rate in the second quarter. Taking these changes into account and given our strong operational performance in the first half of 2015, we are now increasing our non-GAAP EPS range to $3.45 to $3.55. We are also updating the range for our GAAP EPS guidance.

As we've discussed over the past year, we've been monitoring the situation in Venezuela. Based on evolving economic conditions and volatility in the country, our evaluations have led us to take a $715 million charge in the second quarter to revalue our net monetary assets in the country.

While we have taken this action, we will work with the government to continue to get essential medicines into the country and to ensure continued positive US dollar cash flows from our operations. We now expect GAAP EPS to be $1.52 to $1.71 for full year 2015 with the charge related to Venezuela partially offset by the anticipated gain on the previously announced sale of CGRP program, which will be accounted for in the third quarter.

Finally, touching briefly on capital allocation, we remain focused on our commitment to returning cash to shareholders and have over the last 12 months returned $11 billion via the dividend and share repurchase. Altogether, we are encouraged by the growth in our business and the leverage we are delivering through our focused strategy. As we move forward, we remain committed to transforming our operating model, achieving our cost reduction targets and ensuring we deliver a leveraged P&L. Now I will turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Rob. I will briefly review some of the accomplishments in research and development during the second quarter. First, with respect to KEYTRUDA, our PD-1 directed monoclonal antibody designed to promote activation of pre-existing tumor-directed immune responses, we announced that the European Commission granted marketing authorization for KEYTRUDA in the first and second-line setting for patients with advanced melanoma. This approval includes data from our KEYNOTE-006 study, which compared KEYTRUDA to ipilimumab in the first and second-line treatment of patients with advanced melanoma.

Details of this study, including the favorable outcomes observed for response rates, progression-free survival and overall survival, were published in the New England Journal of Medicine and were also incorporated into regulatory approval of KEYTRUDA in Australia. We have filed the KEYNOTE-006 data as a supplemental BLA with the FDA and have also filed an sBLA for our KEYNOTE-002 study where therapy with KEYTRUDA proved superior to traditional chemotherapy with respect to both response rate and progression-free survival.

During the quarter, the FDA granted priority review to our supplemental license application for the use of KEYTRUDA in patients with advanced treatment refractory non-small cell lung cancer where EGF receptor or ALK-directed therapy is not indicated. Data supporting this application also published in the New England Journal of Medicine demonstrated that expression of PD-L1, one of two ligands for PD-1, the target of KEYTRUDA in greater than 50% of tumor cells, was associated with substantially higher response rates than were seen in patients whose tumors did not express PD-L1.

These responses occurred irrespective of the underlying histologic classification of the presenting non-small cell lung cancer. These data were included in our recent submission to the FDA, which has an action date of October 2. We continue to see responses in patients suffering from a broad range of tumor types following treatment with KEYTRUDA. Registration-enabling studies are already underway in many of these settings. Data on additional KEYTRUDA responsive tumors were presented at the American Society for Clinical Oncology meetings last month.

Among the most interesting presentations selected from more than 30 abstracts describing the activity of KEYTRUDA was a study from Johns Hopkins University demonstrating that responsiveness to KEYTRUDA in patients suffering from metastatic colorectal cancer was associated with tumor-specific deficits in DNA repair mechanisms. These data, which also appeared in the New England Journal of Medicine, provides support for the view that control of tumor growth following KEYTRUDA administration is in part determined by the frequency of mutations in tumor DNA that could give rise to novel immune targets in the tumor cells. Studies of this type suggest ways in which the efficacy of KEYTRUDA might be further enhanced. Additional studies examining the importance of tumor-specific DNA repair deficits in dictating KEYTRUDA responsiveness in cancer patients will begin in the very near future.

In infectious diseases, the Committee on Human Medicinal Products, or the EMA, recommended approval of ZERBAXA, our next-generation antibiotic targeting resistant gram-negative bacteria, for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal or urinary tract infections, including pyelonephritis. Once the CHMP decision is ratified by the European Commission, which could occur by the end of September, ZERBAXA will become available in all member states of the European Union.

I'm also pleased to report that both the EMA and the FDA have accepted our filing for the use of our grazoprevir/elbasvir tablet in patients suffering from chronic hepatitis C virus infection. In Europe, our file was granted accelerated assessment for the treatment of infection with hepatitis C virus genotypes 1, 3, 4 and 6. The accelerated assessment was based on the significant unmet medical need that exists in hepatitis C virus-infected patients with chronic renal insufficiency.

The grazoprevir/elbasvir combination was previously granted breakthrough designation by the FDA and have now been informed that our file, which supports the use of the combination for hepatitis C genotypes 1, 4 and 6, will receive priority review with a PDUFA date of January 28, 2016. Site inspections in support of the US filing have already begun.

During this quarter, we submitted our complete response file for sugammadex marketed in over 60 countries around the world as Bridion for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium, drugs that are employed during certain surgical procedures. We've been informed that there will be an FDA advisory committee meeting to review the sugammadex filing on November 6 supporting a PDUFA date of December 19.

I should also note that we continue to have good discussions with the PMDA in Japan regarding our filing for omarigliptin, our once weekly DPP-4 inhibitor for the control of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes. We anticipate filing for approval of omarigliptin in the United States before the end of the year.

During our first-quarter earnings call, I provided top-line information on the TECOS study, which assessed cardiovascular outcomes in patients receiving Januvia for glycemic control as compared to those treated with other regimens. Details of this study were presented in June at the American Diabetes Association annual meeting and were published simultaneously in the New England Journal of Medicine.

Beyond TECOS, I will remind you that we are also engaged in a 30,000 patient outcomes study called REVEAL testing whether anacetrapib, our novel CETP inhibitor, can, when added to standard therapy, reduce the frequency of major cardiovascular events in patients at significant risk for such events.

As I mentioned in April, the REVEAL steering committee continues to evaluate a change in the study protocol to include ischemic stroke as a component of the primary composite endpoint. Their proposal must be fully vetted by governance committees and regulatory agencies and I expect that they will publish the proposed modifications. The steering committee estimates that the first interim analysis with this new protocol will take place towards the end of this year. In the meantime, the study is proceeding as planned.

Finally, we've continued to make progress in business development. To cite two recent examples, last week, we announced an important expansion of our agreement with Ablynx, enabling us to select up to 12 additional programs involving nanobodies, the products of B lymphocytes in the South American llama. Nanobodies are small, single chain antibodies that may be concatenated relatively simply using well described molecular engineering techniques to produce multivalent therapeutic candidates, including nanobodies that block multiple immune checkpoint targets simultaneously.

In a second related example, today, we announced the acquisition of cCAM Biotherapeutics, an Israeli company pursuing novel immunotherapies for cancer. Included among their drug candidates is CM24, a humanized monoclonal antibody in Phase 1 trials for the treatment of advanced malignancy. CM24 is specific for the cCAM one cell adhesion molecule, which, based on preclinical analyses, affects the ability of tumor-specific lymphocytes to control the growth of malignant cells. Additional details regarding this acquisition can be found in our press release.

In sum, during the second quarter, our teams made meaningful progress in developing key new therapies for the treatment of malignancy, hepatitis C virus infection and resistant bacterial infections. I will now turn the call over to Joe.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks, Roger and Darla, we will begin the Q&A segment of our call this morning and for the callers, if you can limit yourself to one or two questions, that way we can get through as many people in the queue as possible. So Darla, we will take our first caller, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much and I guess I should start by congratulating you, Joe. It's been great to work with you and we will miss you and want to offer my congrats to Teri as well. I look forward to working with you again.

With respect to my questions, I guess one question on Remicade biosimilar that I'm not clear on is are governments trying to leverage the Remicade biosimilar and push down pricing of other branded anti-TNFs? And along those lines, do you expect any implications from the NOR-SWITCH study when that report is out? So that's my first question.

And then I guess my second question is could you just walk through what we should focus on in the fall at upcoming cancer conferences on your I/O franchise? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: With regard to biosimilars, right now, we are not seeing a major impact in products outside of Remicade. So for example, if you look at Simponi, we continue to see good Simponi growth and we haven't seen any significant impact to Simponi based upon Remicade being a biosimilar.

At this point in time, we are not seeing a major impact from substitution. As you mentioned, there is the study that's being done in Scandinavia. We will see the results of that study and over time, I believe that there will be additional impact from studies as such, but I think it will take time, Dave.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, the question was the fall conferences. In the fall, we are going to have a lot of data at AASLD and I expect we will have the opportunity to present some data with respect to our triplet therapy, which will be quite interesting going forward. And in immuno-oncology, there are a variety of oncology meetings. I think the ESMO meetings are probably going to be the most interesting in Europe.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Just to continue on the Remicade, just curious -- help us with how pricing is being with the biosimilar. And can you talk about China a little bit? Obviously, sales were pretty good there, but we are hearing a lot of slowdown in China. There's a lot of things going on there. Talk about your new product launches relative to what's happening in China and how we should expect your growth. Can we grow double digits for the next couple of years there? And then just lastly on the gross margin, can you just give us the impact that foreign exchange had on the gross margin? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Let me start with the biosimilars. I'll give you some additional context and then I will briefly talk about China. If you look at what's occurring in the marketplace, we've definitely seen an increased impact in our first full quarter since loss of exclusivity in the second wave, the core European markets. We are seeing mandatory price reductions based upon reference pricing impacts. And as I reported last quarter, biosimilar discounts we've seen as high as 45%.

However, we still maintain about a 95% marketshare and we are facing mostly the reference pricing as the key issue as we speak right now. Over time, we believe that as more new patients come into the market, we will lose marketshare because we've been able to hold on to the vast majority. We've won most tenders for existing patients. So it really is the new patients coming in that over time we'll begin to lose.

So taking all of that together, we expect that the impacts from loss exclusivity on the Remicade business for this year will exceed the growth that we are seeing for Simponi. But I will mention as I said before we expect Simponi will continue to grow despite the increased utilization of Remicade biosimilars.

If you look at China, we had 8% growth and we saw growth across our hospital acute care business and diversified brands. There is no doubt that we are seeing some macro trends of a slowdown, but I still believe there's significant opportunity there. We have good traction with multiple key products that we have, the products that you would think of, but we are also pursuing innovation and we are looking forward to having NRDL pricing approval for products like Januvia and ZETIA in the future, which I think could be growth drivers for us in that market. So despite the macro trends, I do believe over time that China can remain an important market for us.

ROB DAVIS: With regards to your question on the impact of foreign currency and gross margin, it accounted for about half of the increase you saw in the 2015 second quarter versus second quarter of 2014.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you. A couple of questions. Obviously, one of the important controversies with investors is how KEYTRUDA's label will read in second-line lung. I'm wondering if you can give us your latest thinking. Will it likely be broad, meaning in allcomers, or will it likely be narrow, meaning only in PD-L1 positive patients? I know in the past you've said you think the label would probably want to reflect the data in both patient populations, but I don't really know what that means in terms of the indication per se.

And on the same line of questioning, what's the most updated data you have on KEYNOTE-001 in PD-L1 negative patients in terms of the number of patients you have? I think originally that data set was around 40 patients. I think at ASCO I saw that it had grown to about 70 patients that were PD-L1 negative. What's going to be the final number that FDA has in the KEYTRUDA application?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: First of all, with respect to the explicit language of the label, I can't comment on what FDA will ultimately decide to do. Obviously, the major claims in the study, as I indicated, relate to response rates in PD-L1 positive patients and that fundamentally is what we will be focused on. But, at the same time, as I've said before, I don't think that the data that exists in the PD-L1 negative population can be ignored. The exact number of PD-L1 negative patients in the file -- we would have to get back to you on that, but you are right, it's going to be somewhere close to 100 patients. So as I say, it's a considerable number there and there are meaningful responses in that patient population, which one would guess will be reflected in one way or another.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. A couple questions. Ken, first for you. Just am wondering if you guys are giving any second thoughts to how you might consider unlocking the value of the diversified brands business. I know last year there were rumors in the press that you were considering bundling that business and selling it. And I think you decided not to because of the substantial tax leakage, but, as you know, we are seeing companies come up with all sorts of creative ways to either spin out certain assets, sell assets, etc., etc. So I am just wondering maybe if you or Rob can comment on what you might be thinking in terms of options for that business because obviously it is having a significant drag on your top line.

And my second question for you, Roger, is on anacetrapib. If you could comment on the drug's long half-life, how much of a disadvantage do you see this? Obviously, I think the Street has basically written your CETP off because of this issue. If you could put that into context for us. Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: First of all, as we've said before, we are really focused on prioritization and as we look across our entire business, we continue to challenge ourselves to determine whether specific assets, including diversified brands, would have more value outside of Merck or as part of our business. You've seen us take action and divest certain assets -- I would say ophthalmology, MCC -- when we feel that we can do that in a way that's advantageous to the Company long term.

So while we are cognizant of the issue that you just raised relative to the top-line growth, we have to look at the difficulty associated with it and what are the vehicles that we could use to do that. So I could just summarize it by saying that we will look at these mature assets and we will focus on the impact that they have on cash flow, as well as the impact that they have on growth and we will try to make the right decision relative to the specific opportunities that we have. Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Jami, with respect to anacetrapib, I think the really important issue is the benefit/risk ratio. We have a very large, as you know, study, 30,000 patient study, which will go on for quite a long time and we are capturing all the adverse experience data within that patient population.

The benefit of reducing major cardiovascular events is significant; it's very meaningful. It can in fact -- it's certainly a morbidity benefit -- it could in fact be a mortality benefit. That has to be then juxtaposed with the adverse experience profile. Because we have so many patients who have been treated for such a long time, I think we will have a very good sense of that and depending upon the magnitude of the benefit that we see, the consequence we believe of LDL cholesterol-lowering, also HDL raising, LPa-lowering, all of those things together will have to be juxtaposed with what the adverse experience profile looks like. Once we have the data, I think we will have a better sense of that.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Jami, this is Adam. The only thing I'd add is I'm sure you remember when we launched the 4S trial, also when we launched the ASCOT trial in the cholesterol area, I wished we had an outcomes trial at the time of launch for either Zocor or Mevacor. I think it would've made such a substantial difference. So I'm very excited about the potential opportunity of launching a product with a 30,000 patient outcomes trial into an area that we know extraordinarily well, which is the cholesterol-lowering market.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions and congrats, Joe. First question on the oncology franchise for Roger and Adam. Can you maybe just articulate, especially in lung, when you think you might have an OS benefit? And Adam, for you, having or not having that in the label, how does that position you relative to your competition, most notably Opdivo, that has that in the label?

And then second question, it looks as though, Ken, and this is also for Rob, repatriation seems to be a real possibility this year in order to pay for some highway trust fund funding. You have a significant amount of cash on the balance sheet. We estimate at the end of 1Q at about close to $29 billion with 80% to 90% of that offshore. If you do have an opportunity to potentially repatriate that, how are you thinking about deploying that if you are able to bring it back? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So John, with respect to the 010 study, which is a study that will provide a first look at an overall survival benefit for KEYTRUDA in the non-small cell lung cancer setting, this is a study that compares two doses of KEYTRUDA, 2 milligrams, 10 milligrams versus conventional chemotherapy. It's a good sized study and there is the opportunity for an interim analysis, which, of course, is event-driven. At the time when sufficient events are accrued, then the data monitoring committee will look at that.

In principle, they could see a benefit that would result in a recommendation to modify the study or they could continue the study, which is designed to end sometime around the end of the year. So those are the times when we potentially would see the overall survival benefit.

ADAM SCHECHTER: John, let me provide some context and then I'll answer your question directly. First of all, I'm sure you've seen the IMS data, and the May IMS data just came out. And KEYTRUDA has more than an 80% anti-PD-1 share in all of melanoma patients. In addition to that, KEYTRUDA is now the number one treatment in melanoma at a 35% overall patient share. So hopefully, you've seen that we are able to do well in the marketplace.

With regard to lung, we've built an oncology business unit to maximize KEYTRUDA over the long-term. Just as we were ready to launch in melanoma, we will be ready to launch in lung. We are ready for that. We think it's a very significant opportunity. Of course we'd prefer to have overall survival data to promote. And as Roger said, those data are maturing in our broad clinical program.

But we have the capabilities now to be successful, and I think physicians have seen the overall survival data in melanoma. They begin to assume that you'll have overall survival data once you have the studies underway. So although we prefer to have it at the time of launch, the good news is that as Roger said, we have the study to show it over time.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Maybe the only other thing to emphasize is if you look at the PD-L1 positive population, so in those individuals with proportion scores above 50%, the response rates are really quite extraordinary. So in treatment naive patients, the response rates were 50%. Those are really quite unprecedented response rates in non-small cell lung cancer. One would expect those to translate into survival data. We will have a chance to see.

ROB DAVIS: John, with regard to your question about repatriation, firstly I would say, obviously, we are very supportive of comprehensive tax reform. And I think listening to the dialogue as it's evolving in Washington, clearly it is something that I think is a possibility. As we look at it, it's important that it is comprehensive, that it does look at a territorial system, that it does consider a flat tax and it does look at ways to advantage companies that develop intellectual property in the United States.

So all of that is being discussed and we are very supportive of that. As far as the cash we have offshore and what we would do if we did have a major repatriation, right now I don't want to get into specifics about a strategy. I would just go back to say our overall capital allocation philosophy remains the same. First and foremost, we are going to fund the business. And then beyond that, we will look to deploy capital towards business development opportunities, primarily focused in areas that help to augment our pipeline. I think you heard some examples of that even this morning on the call from Roger.

And then clearly, we remain committed to our dividend and we will consider a share repurchase. If you look at what we've done over the past, we have deployed meaningful capital back to shareholders and all of that would remain the same. So as we would see that, all of that will inform any strategy we think of in using the cash.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: I really appreciate you taking the question. Start with Adam, if I may. Maybe -- it's early, early days, you don't have a label, understood. But post-ASCO, doctors have seen that you are on the NCCN. Roughly speaking, how many second-line patients have you guys treated with KEYTRUDA and do you anticipate that once fully approved by FDA that second-line patients that want to elect for KEYTRUDA will need a biopsy prior? So in other words, at the time of initiation of second-line therapy, they will need what presumably would be a second biopsy?

It appears not to be the case with nivolumab because obviously they are doing an allcomers trial, but whether Merck gets PD-L1 positives and negatives on the label, I'm just curious to know whether or not you think physicians are going to want to get a biopsy?

And then also, Adam -- well, this is more for Ken and Rob, I suppose -- this builds on Jami's question -- you've considered in the past very thoughtfully I think what to do with animal health and you elected to keep it. But now the PE arbitrage is substantial again, Zoetis at 30 times, Merck at 17 times, which is just a pretty dramatic opportunity if you were to separate those businesses and liberate value. Is your choice to not do it now have to do with these PE multiples in animal health just aren't sustainable, or is there some other reason why you wouldn't come back to this and study it hard again?

And then finally for Roger, I just wanted to ask, there's been some confusion around this question, so I apologize. I've asked you this before, but I just want to just get the truth out there. But the CETP (inaudible) ongoing, is that trial powered to hit on the final analysis assuming only an LDL impact on outcomes, or does there also need to be some sort of contribution from the raising of HDL on outcomes under base case assumptions in order for that trial to hit the endpoint? And then how is enrollment going in the prodromal-based trial? We've heard it slowed. Just wondering if that's true. Thank you.

If you don't want to answer all those questions, you can pick and choose. But I figured it's Joe's last call, so I can tick him off a little bit.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So Mark, let me give you some context on KEYTRUDA. So if you look at KEYTRUDA, as you know, we only promote the product on label. And if you look at the data we have, about 85% of the use we believe is in melanoma. Of that 85%, we believe about 70% of it is on label, which is within the improved indication. So that gives you a sense of where that is.

With regard to the diagnostic testing, diagnostic testing for treatment decisions has really become a standard and widespread in the treatment of cancer. So go to HER2, ALK, EGFR. So we believe that physicians will do that as a standard practice and we expect that we will have the availability of the test on the day that we launch lung. So we believe it will be easy for them to do. They typically are doing it already and we will make sure it's widely available.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM: Do you think the FDA's going to require that before getting second-line KEYTRUDA in lung?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: I really can't speculate, Mark, on what the FDA will say. They will look at the totality (multiple speakers).

ADAM SCHECHTER: Irrespective of what the FDA says, Mark, I think it is going to become standard practice that the doctors are going to want to know if they are PD-L1 expressive because it's going to have a very different discussion with the patient if they know that they are expressive or not. If you can say to a patient based upon your expression to clinical trials, you could have a greater than 50% response, that's different than saying you'd have a 10% response rate. So I think physicians are going to want that information and data irrespective of what the FDA puts on the label or not; and I also believe that payers, particularly outside the US, are going to be very interested in having that worked on.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM: And Adam, just to be clear you believe the physicians will want to have the second biopsy done at the time of second-line standard of care.

ADAM SCHECHTER: I think they will do it as a first biopsy. I think they are going to just want to know it as part of standard of care from the beginning as we move forward.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: (multiple speakers) CETP in (inaudible).

MARK SCHOENEBAUM: And also the animal health PE arbitrage question.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: But I won't answer that one for you, Mark. Just to be clear, you've asked the question before, but the REVEAL is powered to see the LDL cholesterol lowering effect based on the nomogram that associates LDL cholesterol lowering with reductions in major cardiovascular events. So we would see that, we believe.

And with respect to the base studies, prodromal enrollment is always challenging. There is no question. And part of the issue with respect to prodromal enrollment is that there are a lot of people out there who believe they have cognitive impairment, are concerned about their mental functioning and when you actually image those people, a small fraction of them have evidence of plaque and so the screen failure rate is significant. Nevertheless, we are making good progress in that study.

KEN FRAZIER: Mark, this is Ken Frazier. I'm going to try to take a shot at your arbitrage question. I am pleased that you characterized it as an arbitrage question. The fact of the matter is our animal health business grew very strongly this quarter. It continues to grow well. It continues to have a very good pipeline and so we think about the issue that you put on the table as we think about ways in which we can create value. But we also look at the business from a long-term perspective and I would say that while we don't take anything off the table, we always consider changes in the marketplace.

I want to come back to what I've always said. We plan to augment our animal health business with additional BD. We continue to see this business as a key growth driver with healthy margins and a strong market outlook over the long term. And as for the difference between potential PEs for the animal health business versus the human health business, we are going to continue to focus on running our business. We are going to continue to focus on what's in our control, which is running the business, getting our products approved, augmenting the pipeline, launching these drugs.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: I assume we are done with Mark's questions and congrats, Joe. Just quickly, this is more for Roger than anything. Just in terms of -- to follow up on Tim's questions -- prospects for a broad label versus the file patient group. Can you just give us a sense of the importance of KEYNOTE-010 to the initial filing? And then can you maybe give us a little bit of color on when you expect the KEYNOTE-010 study to read out? I know the primary analysis is in the patient group that's over 50% PD-L1 expression, which I think many of us would have thought could have stopped in an interim, but it would seem that the overall patient group would also be very important to fully understand. So is that part of the reason why we continue to wait for KEYNOTE-010?

And then lastly, on REVEAL, with anacetrapib, Roger, can you just update us on when we might expect the paper on baseline characteristics? I think it would be interesting to know the baseline LDL in REVEAL, particularly in the context of a similar design to [HBS25]. And just additionally on anacetrapib, could you comment on some recent genetic findings correlating the risk of developing macular degeneration? I'm interested just more if the FDA has requested any substudies evaluating this risk. Thanks a lot.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Okay, a lot of questions. First of all, with respect to the KEYNOTE-010 study, as you've said, there will be the final results, which we expect sometime towards the end of the year. But as I mentioned earlier, we have the potential for an interim analysis, which is event-driven. So I can't tell you when that interim analysis would take place, but that interim analysis could in principle result in a recommendation from the Data Safety Monitoring Board that the study be changed, potentially even stopped, I suppose, depending on the strength of the data. So it could happen sooner than that. The information from that study could in principle then contribute to the initial finding based on the [001F] in particular cohort, but it depends again on those analyses.

With respect to REVEAL, the baseline characteristics of patients -- we will present those baseline characteristics. I don't have the date exactly of when that would happen and of course, the study is being run by the Oxford Group, so they are the ones who are making decisions about publication of the REVEAL data, so we can get back to you on that. And of course, we are well aware of the potential association between CETP mutations and macular degeneration.

One of the things that we've done is looked very carefully in our patient population because we were aware of this. We did additional eye exams in our patient populations. The Data Safety Monitoring Board has been looking at that and thus far, we are not aware of any adverse affects. Nothing has been called to our attention. Of course, irrespective of the strength of the genetic association, we have to keep in mind that what we are doing is interdicting CETP function quite late in life; individuals who inherent a genetic anomaly of course have it from the time of conception. So that would have a different impact. But thus far, we are not aware of -- we are looking at it closely and we are not aware of any impact.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ: Very helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Guggenheim Partners.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM PARTNERS: Adam, I've asked this question of you in the past, but just want to get an update. As the SG&A year-over-year declines, Rob made some references to that, but yet at least in the EU you are launching ZERBAXA and KEYTRUDA in melanoma. And it would strike me that the need for additional capital given you're not in oncology in Europe would require a substantial expense. So I would love for you to touch on that.

And then, Roger, lastly, just some update if you could on your compound with Plexxikon -- or the compound, yes, with Plexxikon and its role with PD-1 and/or GITR. Would appreciate that. And then, finally, Joe, all the best on your second tour and welcome back, Teri.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So Tony, we are very much focused on maximizing each and every launch opportunity that we have. And when you look at the first dollar we spend, it's with the launch opportunities in Januvia, frankly. And what we've been able to do is make sure that when we see growth, we are able to put the money towards that growth. So even though you see SG&A declining overall, if you were to look at oncology or Januvia, you would see SG&A increasing over the past several years. And if you look at oncology, we are already there in Europe with Emend and we have a salesforce, we've increased that salesforce and we are continuing to grow.

So I just want to assure you that any time there's a growth opportunity, we are making sure that we have the right resources to maximize those opportunities for patients, but also obviously to grow those products.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And just with respect, Tony, to the combination studies, of course, we have a very broad set underway. Nothing really to update you on there except to say that, with respect to the GITR studies, those studies began -- GIRT agonist -- began in June of last year. We have to progress fairly slowly because of the fact that it is an agonist antibody and hence an immune stimulator as opposed to something that relieves inhibition, or is a dis-inhibitor like KEYTRUDA.

Nevertheless, we have progressed and are moving forward in our Phase 1 studies and we've just begun combination studies with our GITR antibody and KEYTRUDA, so that's moving right along.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICAMERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions and, Joe, congrats; and Teri, looking forward to working with you. So just as we think about the hep C opportunity, recently, one of your peers highlighted that US hep C volumes have been trending lower than anticipated and the expectation was approximately 180,000 patients treated per year. Is this in line with your observations and expectations? And I'm just curious how you see this evolving over time.

And then secondly on the TECOS trial and Januvia trends, just to what extent do you expect TECOS to have a positive impact on Januvia volumes and share? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: With regard to hepatitis C, I still believe that that represents a very significant opportunity for Merck, as well as a number of patients that will be treated. You've seen anywhere from 100,000 to 120,000 patients at maximum treated in the past. Now you're seeing even 170,000 to 200,000, which is still a significant increase from what was treated in the past even today.

It's not uncommon to see warehousing before a new drug comes to market. You saw that earlier before the Gilead compound came to market and obviously, as you have warehousing, you get a big bolus of patients and then it slows down a little bit over time. But I don't think there is a fundamental issue in the overall hepatitis C market. I still think it remains a very good attractive market and we are very excited about getting into that marketplace as soon as Roger and the team working with the regulatory agencies can get us into the market.

With regard to TECOS, obviously, we are very excited about the result. It's an important area for us, diabetes. We disproportionately invest in that area. I think that in general TECOS validated what physicians already were thinking in terms of the favorable tolerability profile of Januvia.

With that said, in markets around the world, we are able to promote it now. We've begun to promote it and I think that it has a very good perception in the marketplace. In other markets like the United States where we have to wait for it to be on the label before our representatives can actively promote the product, we are looking forward to getting the data in our label so we can promote it in the future. Obviously the results are helpful.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A couple quick ones. First, Adam, on diabetes, what would the implications be in your view if we saw positive outcomes for Lilly's SGLT2 inhibitor? Secondly, given Merck's history and expertise, are you interested in the lipid disorder space either from a BD or R&D standpoint? And lastly, perhaps for Ken and Rob, short of an overhaul of the US tax system, which seems unlikely, what is Merck doing to address the tax line longer term, as well as maximize access to your ex-US cash? Obviously, you've returned a lot of cash to shareholders, but you certainly could do more if you made certain corporate decisions. Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: First, with regard to SGLT2s, in general, if you look at the utilization of SGLT2s, they are typically after the use of Januvia. So typically it's metformin first, add on Januvia and then it's after the addon of Januvia. So that's the way they are currently being used. I don't see a significant change; although obviously we are not going to speculate on what the trial results could be for the SGLT2 drugs. So I still remain optimistic about our diabetes franchise.

With regard to lipids, I'm very excited about the potential opportunity to launch a CETP inhibitor. Lipids is an area that Merck has been involved in for many, many years starting with Mevacor and Zocor and this is an area we know very well. We continue to be there for other reasons with cardiovascular medicines and we will just see what the results show from the REVEAL trial.

ROB DAVIS: And Gregg, with regards to your question about the tax rate, obviously, I don't want to get into specific strategies, but it's safe to say that, as we look forward, we will continue to look for planning opportunities to bring the rate down and I do believe those opportunities continue to exist. So we are focused on understanding what our tax rate can be and trying to optimize that position with or without repatriation.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: So just one more following up -- you talked about TECOS and the impact on Januvia financially. Just on IMPROVE-IT with VYTORIN and ZETIA, I would've thought even though it's not on the label yet that we may have seen some benefit there, but it didn't seem to have much of an impact yet. So I'm just curious how you think about the benefit from IMPROVE-IT maybe for the later part of this year and then maybe for next year after presumably you will have the data in the label at some point.

And then second, just separate topic on Pneumovax, if you can just kind of talk about the implications there with Prevnar having the adult indication. Have you seen any impact on Pneumovax from the added competition? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Sure, Vamil. With regard to IMPROVE-IT, obviously, we were very pleased with the results of the IMPROVE-IT trial. As you mentioned, in the United States, we can't promote that trial until we have it into label and we are looking forward to having it in the label as soon as possible.

With regard to what's happening in the marketplace, in the US, you've actually seen a flattening of ZETIA since the announcement of IMPROVE-IT because I think a lot of physicians became aware of the trial through the New England Journal of Medicine and reading about it very quickly. But what you haven't seen is a stem in the decline of VYTORIN in the United States. Once it's in our label, our representatives will actively be able to promote it.

With that said, as you know, in the US, the products will be going generic towards the end of next year. I think the greater impact for IMPROVE-IT is to try to help in the future when you start to think about a CETP inhibitor and the ability to get more patients to goal and lower LDL cholesterol levels.

Outside the US and Europe, we've seen where they are able to promote the product, that it does have a positive impact, but at the same time we've lost exclusivity of ZETIA in Canada, which has had a significant impact and we've seen some changes in France in terms of the ability to have guidelines of when these products are utilized.

Regarding Pneumovax, we have seen increased competition from the ACIP recommendations that now include Prevnar and we've seen it in this quarter. We believe we will see it in this year. However, if you look at the ACIP, Pneumovax is still recommended as a second dose after Prevnar. So we believe that over time we will catch up again because the patients will get the second dose. So the question is how long would this short, interim impact occur and when will patients come back to the second dose. And our teams have been working on how to find ways to encourage the patients to come back to the second dose.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE: Couple quick ones. Maybe, Roger, can we get your updated view on the role you see for combination therapy as we think about the first line non-small cell lung cancer opportunities? Particularly just interested in your view of chemo/PD1 combos versus I/O, I/O combinations and just maybe just relative to monotherapy as we think about this playing out in the next few years.

Second question is on the BACE-inhibitor and just updated thoughts on that opportunity in light of the Lilly extension study and the updated Biogen data we just saw at AAIC. And I'm just going to wrap it up there. Thanks very much.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: First of all, with respect to combination therapy, I believe absolutely that we will find over time that while KEYTRUDA is foundational for therapy for a wide set of malignant diseases that there will be ways to optimize that therapy still further. And I think it will be based on molecular characterization of tumors because we want to preserve the most favorable benefit/risk profile. That's one of the reasons why we have so many of these combination studies going on and we are exploring the full set of combinations.

Without going into detail, the work which we've done and the work reported by our colleagues at John Hopkins really points to the importance of neo-antigens in tumor recognition. So one expects that therapies that increase the representation of mutations within tumor, that could be as simple as radiation therapy, it can be things that are chemotherapeutic agents that damage DNA, it can be ways of immunizing against tumor antigens, all of those things are things that we are pursuing. There are thousands of potential combinations one could pursue and we are trying to be smart about which ones have the highest likelihood of success. So we are also looking at things that affect tumor metabolism.

All of those are quite interesting and data from those will become available in not too long a time, so I am expecting that we will move to that, but I again point out how remarkable it is when you look at the response rates to KEYTRUDA monotherapy, particularly in selected patient populations. They are very impressive.

And second with regard to BACE, the data that have been presented with respect to antibodies directed against a beta, that's really quite a different mechanism from BACE inhibition. And I go back to sort of bedrock data. There is very impressive genetic data that tells us that individuals who have relatively high activity at beta secretase are at higher risk for developing dementia in their lives and they will develop it earlier as opposed to those who have lower levels of beta secretase. And that strongly suggests -- it's the most powerful data that we have and it strongly suggests if we can phenocopy that low level of beta secretase activity, we should reduce the risk of dementia. Whether we can do that in an individual in their seventh decade is in fact exactly what we are testing using our BACE-inhibitor in both mild to moderate and prodromal studies.

I don't think that we can look at the data from an a beta sequestrant, an antibody directed against a beta, and really interpret it in the same way because it's really unclear what those antibodies are doing. We know they cause an inflammatory response and are associated with an adverse affect; exactly what they do in terms of delaying the progression -- if they do that at all -- delaying the progression of either plaque or cognitive impairment, I think more time is needed.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Roger and Ken, do you want to give some final thoughts?

KEN FRAZIER: Again, thanks, Joe, for all you've done. This has been another solid quarter for us. Our four therapeutic areas grew 9%; animal health grew 10%; KEYTRUDA launch is progressing ahead of expectations. But the most important thing is, as we move into the future, we are tremendously excited by the opportunities that we have in hep C, with KEYTRUDA, particularly with non-small cell lung cancer coming up and we will continue to augment our pipeline as you saw this quarter, we did with BD deals, like cCAM and Ablynx. The chance to augment our pipeline is there. We are very excited about the transition to the future that is going on inside Merck. So thank you very much for your continuing interest.

OPERATOR: This concludes Merck's second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
iinsulin : Diabetes Drugs | iphddd : Drug Discovery/Development | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty : Specialized Drugs/Medications | ihormp : Hormone Products
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gdias : Diabetes | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150729eb7s001s1
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,452 words
   PD
28 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to Merck's first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Joseph Romanelli, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
JOSEPH ROMANELLI, VP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Darla and good morning, everyone. We would also like to say good afternoon and good evening to everyone listening outside the United States. Welcome to Merck's first-quarter 2015 conference call. Before I turn the call over to Ken, I just want to point out a couple of items. First, you will see that we have items in our GAAP results such as the acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded those items from our non-GAAP results. There are reconciliation tables available in our press release so you can get a better understanding of the underlying performance.

We've also provided tables to help you understand the sales results in the quarter for the business units, as well as for products. This can be found in table 3 of our press release and the reconciliation table I mentioned earlier is in table 2 of the release.

During the call, we will be referring to table 2 for the P&L and table 3 as it relates to revenue. Second, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current belief of Merck's management are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Our SEC filings, including item 1A in the 2014 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements and you can see our SEC filings, as well as today's earnings release on Merck.com.

So with that, this morning, I'm joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health; Rob Davis, our Chief Financial Officer; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Labs. Now I would like to turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Joe. Good morning, everyone and thank you all for joining our call today. We are off to a very promising start this year in 2015 and we are seeing additional confirmation that Merck's scientific and business strategies, together with our focused investments, are paying off. In the first quarter, we saw strong top-line growth from our core human health therapeutic areas and our animal health business. At the same time, our late-stage pipeline and the product approvals we gained last year are now coming to fruition with launches like KEYTRUDA, BELSOMRA and ZERBAXA.

It's an exciting time at Merck because we believe that our pipeline will continue to deliver medically important products over the coming months and years. And by bringing greater focus and discipline to all aspects of our business, we will continue to transform Merck into a more competitive, more innovative company built on a platform for sustainable future growth. Adam will discuss the quarter's product performance in greater detail later in the call.

Looking to the future, what we at Merck find most energizing is the progress we're making across our pipeline, progress evidenced by strong data presented during several recent major medical meetings. For example, last week at AACR, Merck presented KEYTRUDA data in three tumor types. It was both inspiring and encouraging to see and hear the impact KEYTRUDA is having in patients with lung cancer, melanoma and mesothelioma, which is a particularly challenging cancer with limited treatment options. Not surprisingly, the feedback we have received from physicians has been overwhelmingly positive.

We also announced new filings for KEYTRUDA in lung cancer and melanoma, which brings us another step closer to reaching more patients with this life-saving medicine. Additionally, we presented new Phase 3 data from our HCV doublet program at EASL last week. We are seeing robust responses to the doublet with significant cure rates across all patient types, including harder to treat patients. As you know, we also received breakthrough therapy designation from the FDA for some of these patients who have a clear unmet need.

Finally, this past week at ECCMID, we continued to reinforce our long-standing commitment to the global fight against infectious diseases, including antibiotic-resistant infections. This is another area where Merck will continue to lead the charge to address an unmet global need. Roger will discuss the progress of our pipeline in greater detail later in the call.

Immuno-oncology, hepatitis C and cardiometabolic disease are just a few examples of our most promising late-stage programs. Programs that are predicated upon what has long-defined Merck, our ability to generate innovative and medically important products that address global unmet medical need. In the evolving healthcare environment, commercial success will accrue to those who develop medicines and vaccines that help patients to live healthier and more productive lives and reduce overall healthcare expenditures.

We will remain focused on bringing forward the best scientific and medical innovations sourced both internally and externally because we believe that this is the best path to intrinsic long-term value creation. By capitalizing on the significant and exciting scientific and clinical opportunities that lie ahead, Merck intends to play a major role in transforming healthcare for the benefit of patients, payers and shareholders alike.

The advances in immuno-oncology, hepatitis C and anti-infectives I've mentioned earlier are just the beginning. There are numerous other examples ranging from chronic and debilitating neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's to urgent and pressing global threats like Ebola. These remind us both of the immensity of unmet global medical need and the unprecedented opportunity we have to address that need with transformational medicine. It is an exciting time to be at Merck on both the research and commercial fronts and with that, I will now turn the call over to Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken. Good morning, everyone. This morning, I will discuss the first-quarter results for Global Human Health. My comments will be on a constant currency basis. We are off to a strong start in 2015. We continue to drive growth within the core portfolio while entering a phase of important launches. Sales in the first quarter grew 5% reflecting the following -- growth in all four core areas of diabetes, hospital acute care, vaccines and oncology, the integration of the Cubist portfolio and product divestitures.

Now I'll review performance of several key products followed by a brief update by region and then commentary on a few of our most important launches, so I will start with Januvia. The Januvia franchise reached approximately $1.4 billion in sales and grew 10% in the quarter. In the United States, sales grew 4%. Strong performance this quarter was driven by continued focus and investment to defend our 75% marketshare and to grow the DPP-4 class. As you may recall, TRx volume was declining during the first quarter of last year, also allowing for a favorable comparison.

In the international markets, sales grew 17%. Europe grew as a result of market events last year, which led to share gains, particularly in Germany. Emerging Markets continued to show strong demand. We are off to a strong start to deliver global growth for Januvia in 2015.

Next, in hospital and specialty care, sales of Isentress grew 6% to approximately $390 million primarily as a result of tenders in certain Emerging Markets. In immunology, sales of Remicade and Simponi were approximately $660 million, growing 1%. Continued strong growth in Simponi was mostly offset by a 3% decline in Remicade. All remaining European markets lost patent protection for Remicade in February. We are still in the early stages of biosimilar competition in core EU markets, but the discounts offered by biosimilars are higher than our original expectations of 30%. Discounts are closer to 45%. However, we have yet to see many of the initial tender results to understand what the net prices may become over time.

We continue to maintain the vast majority of patients who are already well-controlled on Remicade. We anticipate that the impact of biosimilar competition, particularly for new patients, will accelerate throughout the year as more tenders occur in the core European markets.

In hospital acute care, sales grew to approximately $800 million. Strong double-digit growth from a broad portfolio, coupled with the addition of sales from Cubist products, solidifies our position as a global leader in hospital acute care. With important in-line brands and new product launches such as ZERBAXA, we continue to expect that this segment will be a core contributor of growth for Merck.

Now turning to the vaccine business. In the first quarter, vaccine sales grew 9% to approximately $1.3 billion. Growth was driven by pediatric vaccines given the recent public attention to measles, which has now subsided and also by Zostavax. Sales of Zostavax were $175 million in the quarter reflecting growth of 25%. Sales in the United States grew as a result of continued DTC efforts. Globally, we also saw positive contributions from Canada, as well as in markets in Asia, which are continuing to launch.

Combined sales of Gardasil and Gardasil 9 reached approximately $360 million in the first quarter, a decline of 5%. Growth in the United States, which reflects higher public sector purchases of about $30 million, was more than offset by timing of government purchases in Brazil. In February, the ACIP recommended Gardasil 9 for routine use in line with Gardasil recommendations. Managed care coverage continued to build following the ACIP meeting and coverage is rapidly approaching that of Gardasil. Physicians currently are transitioning to this new vaccine that offers increased protection from cervical cancer-causing HPV.

Now I'll provide some geographic commentary for the quarter. In the United States, sales increased 10%, excluding Cubist. There was growth across primary care, oncology, vaccines and hospital acute care. Sales in Europe decreased 5%. Growth from the Januvia franchise and Simponi was offset by ophthalmology product divestitures and declines in HCV and Remicade. Japan sales declined 13% as growth in Pneumovax was offset by ophthalmology product divestitures and the bi-annual price decreases that took effect in April of last year. Emerging market sales grew 7%, including 16% growth in China.

Now I'll spend a few moments speaking to several important launches and I'll start with BELSOMRA. We are pleased with the initial months of the BELSOMRA launch in the United States. As of the end of March, there were about 4000 total weekly prescriptions. To date, we have achieved positive coverage decisions for nearly 50 million commercial lives and half of those lives require no step edit. Our teams are continuing to drive awareness for this exciting, first-in-class treatment for patients suffering with insomnia.

Moving to ZERBAXA, following the acquisition of Cubist in January, we have rapidly began working with our new colleagues in the launch of ZERBAXA, a new treatment for certain complicated gram-negative infections. We are just beginning to see formulary additions. As expected in this market, formulary access is critical before use occurs. The growing resistance issue with gram-negative pathogens is driving positive discussions and positive formulary uptake for ZERBAXA.

In oncology, we saw strong performance in the continuing launch of KEYTRUDA. Sales reached $83 million in the quarter. We have achieved rapid penetration of the on-label indication in advanced melanoma. Additionally, NCCN guidelines recommend reimbursement in the first-line treatment of melanoma. Importantly, physicians continue to gain comfort and experience treating patients with KEYTRUDA, a product that will become foundational in the treatment of melanoma and potentially in a number of other cancers. We continue to believe that the immuno-oncology area holds great promise for patients and that it will be a very large and significant market.

Lastly, we are excited about the future opportunities we see, particularly with our hepatitis C portfolio. This is a market where we have succeeded in the past and we are excited for what the launch could mean for patients and for Merck.

In summary, Global Human Health is off to a strong start in 2015. We drove growth as a result of strong performance in focused areas of diabetes, hospital acute care, vaccines and oncology. Furthermore, the integration of Cubist is fortifying our growth platform in hospital acute care. The strength of our underlying business, our focused commercial strategy and the launch opportunities in our hands positions us well for the remainder of 2015 and for future growth. Now I'd like to turn the call over to my colleague, Rob Davis.

ROB DAVIS, EVP & CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Adam and good morning, everyone. As Ken and Adam shared with you, our results this quarter demonstrate our ability to simultaneously grow our businesses and effectively reduce our cost base. We continue to remain focused on transforming our operating model, achieving our cost-reduction targets and ensuring we have a leveraged P&L. This morning, I will provide some additional detail on the quarter and comment on our outlook for the rest of the year. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials.

Total Company revenues were $9.4 billion for the quarter, a decrease of 8% year-over-year, which includes a negative 5 percentage point impact from foreign exchange. The 5% impact from exchange is net of a 2% hedging benefit we realized in the quarter. Our sales decline reflects approximately $700 million of lower revenue from divestitures, including the sale of our consumer care business to Bayer, as well as $379 million in decline in other revenue in the quarter due to the termination of the AstraZeneca JV and the sale of US Saphris rights.

The overall top-line decline was partially offset by the $208 million increase in revenue from the integration of the Cubist portfolio following the close of the transaction in late January. Excluding these items, and the impact of foreign exchange, the underlying base business grew 6% in the quarter. As Adam stated, our sales growth in the pharmaceutical business was driven by growth across our core therapeutic areas of diabetes, hospital acute care, oncology and vaccines.

Our Animal Health business delivered another strong quarter of growth with revenue of $829 million, an increase of 13% year-over-year, excluding exchange. The growth this quarter was primarily driven by our companion animal business, reflecting the continued strong launch of BRAVECTO. We are excited about the progress we've made in this first full year of BRAVECTO's launch.

Now moving to expenses. Gross margin was 76.5% in the quarter, which represents a 240 basis point increase year-over-year driven by product mix, including the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange. We now expect full-year gross margin to be approximately 100 basis points higher versus 2014. Marketing and administrative expenses were $354 million lower in the quarter driven by declines in direct selling costs and net favorability from acquisitions and divestitures. We remain focused on funding opportunities for growth while reducing our overall cost base. Overall, we continue to expect a decline in marketing and administrative expenses compared to 2014.

Research and development expenses were $1.7 billion in the quarter, $149 million higher than prior year driven primarily by licensing costs incurred in the quarter. We continue to expect a modest increase in R&D expense versus prior year. We expect total Company operating expenses to be lower versus last year and we remain on track to reduce our operating expense by $2.5 billion compared to 2012 by the end of this year. Other income and expense was $69 million of expense in the quarter compared with income in the prior year primarily due to a nonrecurring gain from the divesture of Sirna in 2014.

Finally, regarding our tax rate, our non-GAAP effective tax rate this quarter was 22.4%. We continue to anticipate the tax rate for the full year to be between 22% and 23%. Taken together, we earned $0.85 per share in the first quarter, which reflects strong operational performance, as well as $0.06 benefit due to higher equity income from our research investment fund, revenue hedging gains and other one-time items. This compares to $0.88 per share in the prior year, which included $0.11 of gains from the sale of US Saphris rights and the divestiture of Sirna.

Turning to our outlook for the year, we now expect the strengthening of the US dollar to have a roughly $2.8 billion impact on our full-year sales results. Despite additional FX pressure, we are maintaining our sales guidance of $38.3 billion to $39.8 billion.

Now regarding EPS, we continue to expect FX to have a $0.27 impact in 2015. We anticipate that most of that impact will occur in the remainder of the year. In light of our strong first-quarter performance, tempered by our non-operational gains this quarter and the anticipated incremental negative impact of FX, we now expect non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $3.35 to $3.48, which reflects an increase from our prior guidance.

In summary, we are off to a strong start in 2015. As we continue to focus on execution, we are seeing the benefit of our efforts in revenue growth in core products and markets, a lower cost base and this first wave of innovation and new product launches. Lastly, as I previously mentioned, we remain on track to achieve our cost reduction goals by the end of 2015. Now I'll turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Rob. We had a very busy first quarter in research and development culminating in several important regulatory filings and research presentations. Turning first to KEYTRUDA, our PD1 directed monoclonal antibody designed to promote activation of pre-existing tumor directed immune responses. We previously announced that the Data Monitoring Committee recommended early conclusion of our KEYNOTE-006 study, which compared KEYTRUDA to ipilimumab in the first and second-line treatment of patients with advanced melanoma. Details of this study, including the favorable outcomes observed for response rates, progression-free survival and overall survival were presented at the American Association for Cancer Research meeting in Philadelphia last week and published in the New England Journal of Medicine. Also presented at the AACR meeting and simultaneously published in the New England Journal of Medicine were the results of KEYNOTE-001 cohorts, including patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer treated with KEYTRUDA following progression after systemic chemotherapy.

In these studies, we observed that expression of PD-L1, one of the two ligands for PD1, the target of KEYTRUDA, in greater than 50% of tumor cells was associated with substantially higher response rates than what was seen in patients whose tumors did not express PD-L1. These responses occurred irrespective of the underlying histologic classification of the presenting non-small cell lung cancer. These data were included in our recent submission to the FDA seeking approval for KEYTRUDA in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer that has progressed despite platinum-based chemotherapy and where EGF receptor or ALK-directed therapy is not indicated.

This filing joins another filing based on our earlier KEYNOTE-002 study, which is now under review at the FDA, demonstrating that, in a randomized comparison, KEYTRUDA therapy is superior to conventional chemotherapy in patients with advanced melanoma as judged by progression-free survival. We expect to file the results of our KEYNOTE-006 study, which I mentioned earlier, by the middle of the year.

Data from our melanoma studies is also under review by the Committee on Human Medicinal Products at the European Medicines Agency. I should note that, during the first quarter, KEYTRUDA was approved for the treatment of advanced melanoma in Canada and Australia, among other jurisdictions. We are particularly gratified that melanoma patients in Australia will now be able to benefit from KEYTRUDA treatment since this is the region of the world with the highest incidence of this life-threatening disease.

I also wish to emphasize that although we have studied a range of KEYTRUDA doses in our clinical trials, our data are persuasive that 2 milligrams per kilogram given every three weeks is as efficacious as higher doses across all tumor types studied. Indeed, we are advancing a unit dose of 200 milligrams every three weeks, which we hope to show is equally effective. This will simplify dosing for the vast majority of patients for whom KEYTRUDA is an appropriate therapy.

Finally, I will mention again that, during 2014, we provided data indicating that KEYTRUDA has activity in seven different tumor types -- head and neck cancer, bladder cancer, gastric cancer, triple negative breast cancer and Hodgkin's lymphoma, as well as melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer. And we are pursuing registration-enabling studies in each of these indications. At the AACR meeting, we presented the first data from our signal detection study called KEYNOTE-028 demonstrating tumor shrinkage in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma following KEYTRUDA administration. This represents an eighth malignancy for which data supporting further potentially registration-enabling studies can be pursued.

During the upcoming American Society for Clinical Oncology meetings in June, we will present 33 abstracts, including nine oral presentations describing the activity of KEYTRUDA in different settings, which can potentially be used to sharpen treatment algorithms for malignant disease. In all, we now have more than 14,000 patients enrolled in clinical trials aimed at defining the attributes of KEYTRUDA therapy.

Also during the first quarter, we completed Phase 3 studies of grazoprevir/elbasvir treatment for patients suffering from chronic hepatitis C virus infection. Some of these data were presented last week at the European Association for the Study of the Liver meetings in Vienna, demonstrating that our doublet regimen produced 95% sustained virologic responses at 12 weeks in patients suffering from genotypes 1, 4 or 6 infection with hepatitis C virus.

In addition, data presented at the meeting showed responses in patients simultaneously infected with human immunodeficiency virus or suffering from renal insufficiency, including those on hemodialysis. Summarizing across this very large data set, much of which was also published in the Annals of Internal Medicine, we conclude that combined treatment with grazoprevir/elbasvir presented together in a single oral dosage form given once daily permits control of hepatitis C infection in a broad range of patients. I will remind you that we have received breakthrough designation for this doublet therapy in the treatment of patients with genotype 4 infection and for the treatment of chronic HCV genotype 1 infection in patients receiving hemodialysis, an important subset of the total HCV-infected population. We plan to file for approval of this combination with the FDA by midyear.

Yesterday, we announced the results from our TECOS study in patients with type II diabetes. The study compared treatment with Januvia as a means of maintaining lower levels of glycated hemoglobin, a measure of diabetic control, with alternative standard regimens and was designed to collect data regarding the cardiovascular safety of Januvia treatment as compared to these other regimens. The TECOS study conducted under the sponsorship of the University of Oxford Diabetes Trials Unit and the Duke Clinical Research Center is the largest one of its type enrolling almost 15,000 patients from 38 countries and with a median follow-up of more than three years.

As I've indicated previously, the study investigators will present their data at the June American Diabetes Association Forum in just a few weeks and hence, I will not describe the results in detail. I will say, however, that the study met its primary endpoint. Januvia therapy was non-inferior to treatment with alternative regimens with respect to the composite cardiovascular endpoint. Observed adverse experiences were generally consistent with what has been previously reported in post-approval studies of Januvia. I should note that, during the month of April, the FDA convened an advisory committee to examine the safety of two other DPP4 inhibitors for which cardiovascular outcomes data had previously been made available as a result of the SAVOR-TIMI and EXAMINE trials.

Of special interest to the FDA and to committee members were results suggesting that DPP4 inhibitors might be associated with an increased risk of hospitalization for heart failure. This was an explicit endpoint of the TECOS study and I can report that there was no imbalance in heart failure hospitalization comparing the Januvia treatment arm with the treatment group receiving other therapies designed to reduce hyperglycemia.

Beyond TECOS, I will remind you that we are also engaged in a 30,000 patient outcome study called REVEAL testing whether anacetrapib, our novel CETP inhibitor, can, when added to standard therapy, reduce the frequency of major cardiovascular events in patients with significant risk for such events. Earlier this month, we received a proposal from the steering committee of the trial to change the study protocol to include ischemic stroke as a component of the primary composite endpoint. This proposal is based in part on data that emerged last year from the IMPROVE-IT study, which documented a reduced risk of ischemic stroke associated with LDL cholesterol lowering. With this in mind, and in advance of any interim analyses of REVEAL, it was proposed that ischemic stroke rather than revascularization would prove to be a more appropriate measurement for the cardiovascular composite endpoint.

The letter from the steering committee should not be taken to mean that investigators are aware of any outcomes from the REVEAL trial itself. The study remains blinded. However, given the proposed change in endpoint, they also wish to adjust the timing of the proposed interim analyses. Their proposal must be fully vetted by governance committees and regulatory agencies and I expect that they will publish the proposed modifications. The steering committee estimates that the first interim analysis with this new protocol would take place towards the end of this year. In the meantime, the study is proceeding as planned in a fully blinded fashion.

A few final notes on regulatory activity. We have received a complete response letter from the FDA regarding our submission of Bridion, which is approved in more than 60 countries for the reversal of certain types of neuromuscular blockade during anesthesia. The agency has asked for additional sensitivity analyses regarding the data that we have submitted. We expect to be able to respond to these requests in the very near future. And now I will turn the call over to Joe.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Roger. And Darla, I think we are getting ready for the Q&A segment of the call. For callers, I will ask that you ask only one or two questions so that we can get through as many colors as possible. Darla, can you turn it over to the Q&A segment? Thanks.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Congratulations on TECOS. I'm not going to ask any questions; I am imagining you won't say much. On KEYTRUDA in lung, the debate continues to rage on about the utility of a biomarker and you filed your product. Are you willing to say that you have asked for a label that is specific to high expressers of PD-L1, or is the data set you submitted really broader than that and you did not explicitly ask for a biomarker limitation?

And then you raised guidance for the year on earnings. Is part of that related to hep C specifically? What is baked into your 2015 guidance about a potential launch before year-end? Would that not make a difference anyway and your breakthrough therapy designation was limited in terms of what that status applies to. Can you talk about when the drug does get approved, is it likely to be a broad label?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: First of all, with respect to KEYTRUDA in lung, of course, the entire data set, the totality of our data has been filed with the FDA. And in those data, as I have said previously, what we know is that patients who have a high proportion of tumor cells expressing PD-L1 experience a higher likelihood of response and in fact, the response rates for those who are above the 50% representation are really very significant. But that doesn't mean that patients with low or even no visible PD-L1 expression failed to respond inevitably. There are responses in this patient populations as well and I would expect that the labeling would want to capture that information to best advise physicians as they make decisions about how to treat their patients.

ROB DAVIS: Maybe I'll take the other question with regards to the hepatitis C. I just remind you that, as we look to file in the first half of 2015, our guidance really has multiple scenarios around how this will play out, but it's not material this year given the timing of the launch.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And finally, Tim, with respect to HCV and our breakthrough designation, the breakthrough designation provides a mechanism whereby we can work closely with the FDA to design studies and our filing because the FDA recognizes, we believe, and the FDA recognizes that our therapy, our HCV therapy, has the potential to provide meaningful and important benefits to an underserved population. However, the data set that we submit is the entire data set and it is that entire data set that they will review and that data set, as you know, from the EASL meetings and from what we have published and from other presentations, spans the entire range of HCV infection.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Roger. Thank you, Tim. And Darla, our next caller.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE: Congrats on the quarter. Just two questions here. First, maybe just more broadly on KEYTRUDA in non-small cell lung cancer. Can you just talk a little bit more about your product's relative competitive position in this market and how you are thinking about the commercial rollout here? I know you just mentioned you are filing basically your entire data set, but commercially how do you think about your initial data versus your competitor, which has OS data from a controlled study and how that plays out in the market?

The second question was on the BACE program in Alzheimer's and just updated thoughts there following the recent Biogen data. I guess I would be interested in your views of how you think about BACE versus [block-specific] antibodies and just how the treatment paradigm in Alzheimer's ultimately shapes up. Thanks very much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: I'll answer the question on the lung cancer market readiness. So we have been building our oncology business unit to make sure we maximize the potential of KEYTRUDA over time and just like we were ready to launch in melanoma, we see lung cancer as a very significant opportunity for KEYTRUDA and we will be ready to launch. Of course, you'd prefer to have overall survival data to promote, but these data are maturing in our broad clinical program. We've been building our lung cancer capabilities, adding sales representatives and customer-facing teams who have been working with key scientific leaders and we are just getting ready for the launch.

In terms of competitiveness, we feel really good about the data we have showed and if you look at the value in the PD-L1 diagnostic, I think that can really help identify patients who will have an enhanced likelihood for improved efficacy and benefit most from KEYTRUDA. And when I talk to opinion leaders, but also when I have talked to governments, they see this as a way of allowing physicians to potentially have a different conversation with patients, depending on their PD-L1 expression. Particularly, we can see such a large effect of 45% in the high expressers, but it also allows physicians to prioritize treatment options, which they are looking for. Payers around the world, particularly in Europe, have noted their interest in the potential health economics and those that could be associated with identifying patients who could benefit most from KEYTRUDA and thinking about algorithms of treatment. So we feel very good about the data we have and our competitive position at this time.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And Chris, with respect to BACE, as you know, of course, our BACE-inhibitor is currently under study in two large Phase 3 trials, one in patients with mild to moderate cognitive impairment and the other in patients with prodromal disease. The data set from Biogen, which, as you know and as they characterize, is a small data set, is intriguing because it appears to show that there can be a dose response curve for plaque reduction using an antibody directed against A beta. The data with respect to cognitive improvement, of course, are, as everyone has commented, immature.

I think what we would say is, to the extent that one believes that actually reducing A beta and plaque has an effect on cognitive function, we feel very good about our clinical trials. However, the trials are the trials. We wait to see how they develop and we are eager to understand whether we can have an impact on this horrible disease.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Roger. And Darla, our next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Maybe I could just double down on Tim's question. At the risk of annoying you, but, Roger, is it your expectation that the FDA will write a label for KEYTRUDA in lung cancer that will allow for broad use irrespective of PD-L1 status in the commercial setting? Yes or no.

And then perhaps for Adam, if the answer is yes, how do you think physicians are going to choose between KEYTRUDA in OPDIVO given that, at least for a while, OPDIVO will be the only one with a -- presumably the only one with an overall survival benefit actually described in label?

And then also, Roger, you mentioned -- this is what everyone on Wall Street wants to hear you say, so I'll just ask it, I don't know what you will say, but you mentioned no quote in balance in hospitalizations for heart failure. I assume that that clearly means no statistical difference between the arms. What everyone is asking though in our world is can you also give us some comfort that there wasn't some sort of numerical difference that just optically is going to frighten us when we see the data? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Mark, so, first of all, there is no yes or no answer to your question about FDA labeling. The FDA will make its own decision based on the data, which you have seen and which we have presented. I think that the data with respect to KEYTRUDA in lung cancer speaks for itself and FDA will want to inform physicians of the actual information that is available so that they can make their best judgments and we will see how that turns out. I can't predict yes or no what exactly that labeling language will look like, so that's the first thing.

With respect to the issue of TECOS, just to take that off the table, again, with respect to heart failure hospitalization, the results in the two arms were balanced. They were completely balanced and that is I think all you need to know.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Mark, what I would say with regard to the marketplace, the first thing I'd like to say is that this is a very large market and it is not just looking at KEYTRUDA for one indication. If you look at KEYTRUDA, we are studying it over many, many different indications. I believe that this market can handle several competitors, so I don't think it should be looked at as one company versus the other. I think it should be looked at these companies, including Merck, versus cancer and trying to change the way the world thinks about treating cancer.

If you look specifically at lung, I think that having the data we have is good. I think having high expressers and understanding what the benefit is in those patient types will allow not only physicians, but payers to start to think about the treatment algorithms that they want to utilize to best treat patients. But I would look at this class more like the anti-TNFs where you have multiple competitors, they all do very well, they all have strong growth, some do a little bit better in one indication than another indication, but over time there's room for multiple, multiple competitors.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM: Thanks, I really appreciate it.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks, Mark. Thanks for the questions. Darla, next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just to follow up, Roger, what gives you confidence that the FDA will approve KEYTRUDA without a survival benefit just given that Bristol has now proven overall survival, both squamous, non-squamous in both PD-L1 positive and negative-express patients? So just if you can share your level of confidence in that issue. And secondly, when do you plan to file in lung in Europe? And then, thirdly, a question for you, Rob. I noticed that you highlighted a revenue hedging benefit and based on my math, that would seem to be around $200 million, or about $0.06 to earnings. Is that how we should look at that and is that something that is going to continue for the rest of the year? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: I have confidence that the data that we have provided to FDA are registration worthy. We have identified a population of patients for whom we've received breakthrough designation. We've had lots of discussions with the FDA. I think we recognize the benefit that [endures] to these patients from treatment with KEYTRUDA and we will move forward on that basis.

With respect to the European filing, of course, as I mentioned and as you know, KEYTRUDA is under review in Europe for melanoma and while that review process continues, we will wait and sit back and once we know what that answer is we will be in a position to file with respect to non-small cell lung cancer.

ROB DAVIS: With your question on the hedging, it's a little less than the number you quoted, but generally you understand it correctly. It flows pretty consistently from the revenue down to earnings and as you look for the rest of the year, obviously, it will depend on where currency rates end up, but assuming they continue where they are today, you should expect to see a proportion of benefits similar to what you saw in Q1 for the remainder of the quarters.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thank you, Jami. Darla, next caller.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: I guess first question is if you could just give us some more detail on KEYTRUDA and what has happened so far; number of patients on drug, how is it being used, mono versus combo, first line, second line, that kind of thing. Second question is on hep C. Can you talk about the potential here that there is some limitations just in the experienced patients, just given the data we saw. And third, just on Bridion, we keep hearing the same thing on Bridion. Is this ever going to make it through the US FDA? Is there something new that they are bringing up, or is this just the same old stuff and we're going to have to go back and do more data? What is happening here? Thanks.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: So Adam, do you want to take the KEYTRUDA mix of patients?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, absolutely. So first of all, what I would say is we had rapid penetration of our on-label indication and if you look, we had sales of about $83 million. The US was $66 million of that. Most of the patients that we have been treating are on label. So we think about 75% of the patients are in the approved indication and this is where we promote KEYTRUDA. The NCCN coverage takes some time for physicians to become aware of and for them to adapt. I think that that will increase over time, but it is still early.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And Marc, with respect to -- you had two questions. The first with regard to our doublet treatment of HCV, and you spoke of limitations, I actually think the data are extremely strong and they are especially strong, actually, in patients that are difficult to treat who have, for a variety of reasons, fit into the category where it is difficult to get therapy to result in sustained virologic response. So I actually think that the totality of the data set, and it's a very large data set, is really quite strong. I don't see it as limited in that way.

With respect to Bridion, we think our data set well characterizes the hypersensitivity reactions that can occur with Bridion administration. FDA is eager to get additional information about that study in particular, which they have asked for sensitivity analyses about and they also intend to scrutinize the data from each individual site and as soon as we can get that done, I am hopeful that we and they will agree that Bridion is appropriate for the US market, but it is important that they have their questions answered and we are doing everything we can to get those answers to them.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks for the questions, Marc. Darla, next caller.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: First for Adam, a KEYTRUDA commercial question. In the PD1 space, so far, I assume that the price is the price from the two companies, but my question is about whether you see these products moving into a contracting environment in lung cancer, or perhaps not until there are more players or perhaps never in this class. Want your views on that and how it evolves over time.

And then for Roger, where do you see the field settling on first-line melanoma treatment, monotherapy PD1 or combo therapy with Ipi? Obviously some data out in both of those cases recently. And lastly, Roger, beyond CETP, are there any sweet spots in cardiovascular research that you think make sense for Merck internally or externally given your current portfolio and heritage in the area? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: The first thing is that if you look at KEYTRUDA, the vast majority of formularies have put both products on formulary and they are looking at this as a way to allow physicians to have choice. In this class, obviously, reimbursement is different, so the way in which you can contract is different than in other classes and how you might think about it, but I would also say, with so many different tumor types being developed with so much different data by indication being developed, I think that, over time, there will be multiple products that will continue to be available so physicians can choose which product they want for which indication, which tumor type and I don't see that necessarily changing right now over time.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And Gregg, with respect to therapy for melanoma, just to elevate a little bit, the good news is that more and more profound results are being obtained in patients who previously had no hope of treatment and the results that we saw with KEYTRUDA monotherapy versus ipilimumab, previously the best available therapy for people with advanced disease, were so impressive that the Data Monitoring Committee had to stop the study early for a difference that emerged very early with respect to overall survival. So that is very good news.

The question is can we get beyond what we see with monotherapy in combination therapies and do better yet and for there, first of all, we need to see direct comparisons between the combination of a PD1 directed therapy plus let's say a CTLA-4 directed therapy versus a PD1 directed therapy alone. We are doing such studies. Bristol-Myers is doing such studies. We'll have an opportunity to see what those kinds of data look like and that will be important. And beyond that, there are other combinations which may prove to be attractive and we and others are pursuing those as well. I see a very bright future for this and I think we're going to continue to make strides. The platform of PD1 directed therapy is I believe foundational for the treatment of this malignancy and for many others and we are going to see further advances over the next few years, all good news.

With respect to cardiovascular disease, obviously, we are doing a great deal and one of the things that we have been working on is the soluble guanylate cyclase activators as a result of our recent interaction. We now have access to Adempas and in addition, we have a set of other compounds which come from Bayer and from us too, which address a whole family of interesting potential indications in that area. So we are doing quite a lot of work in cardiovascular research and we are quite encouraged by it.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thank you, Gregg. Darla, our next caller.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you for taking the questions and congratulations on the quarter. Roger, do you anticipate having difficulty recruiting for the KEYNOTE-024 study in PD-L1 positive lung cancer patients given what you showed at AACR? If a patient has greater than 50% PD-L1 expression, why would they agree to go on chemo?

And then a follow-up for Rob. How much of the gross margin was driven by FX versus product mix? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: I should say it is a changing environment; indeed, coming in very, very rapidly. I think it is important to recognize that these studies are conducted around the world in a whole variety of jurisdictions where we are at different stages in terms of the availability of PD1 directed therapies. And as is typical in such cases, there are opportunities to do studies directly comparing the therapies that exist locally. There are important questions that are being asked in KEYNOTE-024 and so we are eager to see those studies completed and to be able to present those data.

ROB DAVIS: With your question to product gross margin, if you look at the gross margin in the quarter, it grew about 240 basis points. And one of the major impacts was the fact that we had the divestitures of MCC and some of the other products, so the change in product mix. But if you look at it, a little less than half would have been coming from the benefit of FX.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks, Rob. Thanks, Alex. Darla, our next caller.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have had a number of my questions asked and answered already, but I guess I have a few more. First, could you just comment on the expected EPS accretion from Cubist in 2015? And then could you provide a little bit more color -- I know that you commented on the hedging benefit, but other revenues stepped up dramatically in the first quarter of 2015 relative to the fourth quarter of 2014. Could you provide any more quantification of the hedging benefit? And then as we look to modeling the second quarter of 2015, how should we model other revenue sequentially versus what you just reported in the first quarter of 2015? Thanks very much.

ROB DAVIS: Maybe I'll take the second question first and then we can jump into the Cubist question as well. So if you look at other revenue in the quarter, and it's really probably worth unpacking it a little bit because, while in some ways it looks like it declined year-on-year, I would have you recall that in the first quarter of last year, we did have the gain from the sale of the US Saphris rights, as well as the fact that we do have AstraZeneca joint venture revenues that were in that line that no longer repeat. So in reality, we did see year-on-year an increase of about $250 million in that line.

And if you look at it from that perspective, the vast majority of that was FX hedging gains we had in the quarter, as well as we did have third-party manufacturing sales as a result of the MCC divestiture. We still are supplying Bayer in that system, that line and then we had Alliance revenue. So those really are what drive the change in other revenue, but the single biggest piece of it, if you look at it year-on-year or frankly sequentially, is going to be the foreign currency hedge gains we had.

And then with regard to the Cubist accretion, recall when we gave the guidance on this deal earlier we said we would expect it to be modestly accretive in 2015 and that continues to be the case.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thank you, Rob and thank you Dave. And Darla, our next caller.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust Robinson.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. First one on KEYTRUDA. There certainly has been a lot written in the trade publications, especially from the head of the FDA oncology division. He certainly has put his pen to approving products. We saw CYRAMZA approved in 9 weeks, OPDIVO approved materially earlier than anticipated. Just your thoughts on is this a new paradigm out of the FDA, and could we see potentially earlier than expected approval of KEYTRUDA in lung? And if so, are you ready commercially to match share of voice within the marketplace?

On HCV, just reiteration of your filing timeline there; and then, Adam, any comments about Europe and Japan growth dynamics. It certainly would appear that a lot of the growth is coming from ex-US relative to US, but your commercial readiness to potentially launch HCV before the end of the year. And then just lastly, can we anticipate Zilmax back in the model before the end of this year, or back in the market? Thanks.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, do you want to start, Roger, with KEYTRUDA and timing; and Adam, go to share of voice?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes. So for KEYTRUDA in the KEYTRUDA review, I just would say that Dr. Pazdur speaks for himself. He is the head of the oncology review division and he has made plain that he is eager to advance these programs as best he can working with his colleagues. He spoke at the AACR meeting directly to this point. We have tried to provide the Agency with the information that they need to make their decision, but it is their decision and I really can't speculate on timing. With HCV with respect to filing, again, we will file by midyear.

ADAM SCHECHTER: With regard to lung, so we are ready. As soon as we have approval, as soon as the FDA provides that to us, we are ready to launch. We have been building our lung capabilities. We have added sales representatives. We already have sale representatives selling EMEND in many of those offices already. But we have built the customer-facing teams. We have begun working on our scientific platform with key scientific leaders. So we are ready as soon as Roger and the team can work with the FDA to get us approval.

In terms of HCV, so we have been in this market for a long time. And if you look at our success when we launched our protease inhibitor, we did very well everywhere around the world. And if you look at markets in Europe, our market share was very high, I think higher than most people would've expected. When we no longer promoted our PI in those markets, we kept a commercial presence because we knew at some point, we would be launching again into the marketplace.

So we never left the market for HCV in Europe or Japan. In fact, in Japan we continue to promote PI in that market. So we are ready for HCV. We are very excited about that opportunity. And frankly, as soon as Roger and team work with the FDA to get us approval, we will be off to the races. We think this is a very exciting opportunity for Merck. It's an exciting opportunity for patients, and we are certainly ready.

ROB DAVIS: John, with your question regarding Zilmax, recall that we voluntarily withdrew that product. Right now, we are in the midst of trying to work through an infield study working with our industry partners. And given the timing of that, we really can't speculate when we will be back in the market. We are continuing to work through that, but right now for purposes of how we would look at the year, I would not assume any Zilmax.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks, John. Thanks for the call, the questions. Darla, next caller.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Just a couple of quick ones on KEYTRUDA. I know it is short-lived, but maybe, Adam, if you could help us with the percent of sales in the community versus academics and if you can't give us that number, maybe you could just help us in terms of the increased penetration of oncology physician practices before the on-label indication?

And then separately for the on-label indications, can you just give us a sense of where you see the duration of therapy evolving at least in the melanoma setting? And then my last question, as we think forward to your update on anacetrapib, can you just remind us how that fits in terms of what your expectations were in terms of timing previously, what is the anacetrapib update coming towards the end of this year, a little bit of a delay implying that events are coming in just a little bit more slowly? Thanks a lot.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So first of all, with regard to KEYTRUDA, if you look at our sales, right now, the vast majority of those, we believe greater than 75%, are for the approved indication in melanoma and if you look at the breakout between community-based versus non-community-based physicians, the majority of sales still are from the non-community-based physicians and the big institutions. But you should know we are in all the offices of not only the large institutions, but the community practices as well and we continue to have a strong presence covering over 90% of the prescriptions of physicians prescribing for melanoma.

In terms of duration, it is just too early. In this market, data is hard to find, so it's very difficult for us to tell you how long people in the marketplace that have started a product have continued taking the product. So it's just very early for us to have that type of data. The data in oncology is a little bit harder to get than in primary care.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And just to follow up on that, Seamus, as you know, the duration of therapy in our clinical trials is two years because there is no marker that we can follow in responding patients that would tell us that it is essential to maintain the drug in order to keep the response. And that is one of the questions that is continuing to be explored in additional studies across the entire program.

And then with respect to anacetrapib, the protocol revision that has been proposed by the steering committee, assuming that it is accepted by governing bodies, will delay by a few months the first interim analysis, but it is not going to affect the conduct of this study at all, which is proceeding exactly as planned and is, of course, end-point-driven.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ: Okay, great. Thank you.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks, Seamus. Darla, I think we have time for one more call.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICAMERRILL LYNCH: On hep C, could you talk about your level of confidence in developing a shorter regimen with one of the triplet combinations? And when will we first see data from that C-CREST trial? Also on hep C, can you talk about how you see the pricing environment evolving in 2016 given the market is going to become increasingly crowded? And then just a quick one on odanacatib. Could you provide us an update on this program? Thanks.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Roger, do you want to talk a bit about --?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So for the hep C program, the question is, of course, can we -- we have a terrific set of data that we presented with respect to doublet and we've talked previously about developing triplet therapy, which would be pan-genotypic, shorter duration and could be used irrespective of comorbidities and we continue to work on that. Our triplet with 3682 is under study in Phase 2. We hope to be able to begin Phase 3 sometime perhaps in the beginning of next year or so. Data from the Phase 2 studies should be available sometime around the end of this year and once those data are available, that will help us to understand what we can do. Of course, we have already previously published data demonstrating that we can use a shorter regimen by using Sofosbuvir as a nucleoside inhibitor in combination with the doublet therapy. So we have some confidence that one could do that, but it needs to be explored, of course, with 3682 and that we will do.

With respect to odanacatib, the program continues. As we indicated before, we are working to adjudicate this set of adverse events that were scored in the study. It's a large study and the adjudication process is proceeding in an independent and blinded fashion. We worked with the FDA to create that adjudication process. We hope it will be done soon and then we will be in a position to file the drug.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And Colin, in regard to the hepatitis C market, first, this is a very large market. There are more than 3 million patients in the US alone and there's more than 100 million patients worldwide, so we think that this will be a very big, a very important market over time. We have seen some of the pricing and contracting occur in the market, but we believe that with our product and that we are developing a highly effective, well-tolerated ribavirin-free pan-genotypic regimen that has a minimal treatment duration for a broad variety of patients that we can be successful in this market and we believe that despite what has happened in the past with some of the pricing that it will still be a very big important market for us. So we remain very excited about coming back into the hepatitis C market in the United States, but also globally.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thank you, Adam and I will turn it over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, just to close the call, we are seeing steady progress as you heard in our pipeline and we are also experiencing solid growth in our underlying business. We are pleased with the momentum of the business and we look forward to speaking to you again. Thanks.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks, everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Merck's first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
iinsulin : Diabetes Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty : Specialized Drugs/Medications | ihormp : Hormone Products
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gdias : Diabetes | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150430eb4s001p5
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,160 words
   PD
4 February 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's fourth-quarter and full-year 2014 earnings call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joseph Romanelli, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead sir.

   TD
JOSEPH ROMANELLI, VP OF IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Christie, and good morning, everyone. We'd also like to say good afternoon and good evening to everyone listening outside the United States. Welcome to Merck's fourth-quarter 2014 conference call. Before I turn the call over to Ken, I just want to point out a couple of items. First, you will see that we have items in our GAAP results such as the acquisition related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items.

You should note that we have excluded those items from our non-GAAP results. There are reconciliation tables available in our press release so you can get a better understanding of the underlying performance. We have also provided tables to help you understand the sales results in the quarter for the business units as well as for the products. This can be found in Table 3 of our press release and the reconciliation table I mentioned earlier is in Table 2 of the release.

During the call, we will be referring to Table 2 for the P&L and Table 3 as it relates to revenue.

Second, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call might be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2013 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck underscores no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements and you can see our SEC filings as well as today's earnings release on Merck.com.

So with that, this morning I am joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health; Rob Davis, our Chief Financial Officer; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Labs.

So with that, I will turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Joe. Good morning, everyone, and thank you all for joining the call today. Our performance this quarter is the result of the proactive steps we are taking to further sharpen our commercial and R&D focus, redesign our operating model and reduce our cost base. We are evolving Merck's operating model in recognition of the evolution underway in healthcare markets across the world. And we will continue to focus our resources on those internal and external opportunities that can generate the most value for patients, customers and shareholders.

While we made real progress in 2014, you should all know that we are by no means content. Over the past year, our greater focus has led to better execution a point underscored by the effort that led to Keytruda being the first PD-1 inhibitor approved in the United States.

Another example of focused execution is restoring Januvia's growth. It is our intention to continue this focused disciplined execution especially in areas where we have the greatest opportunities to grow and to lead.

While we are transforming the way Merck operates and executes, our fundamental strategy has remained consistent. Our success and our future will continue to be predicated upon what has long defined Merck, innovating at the intersection of scientific opportunity and global unmet medical need. In short, there is no substitution for innovation which we believe remains the best path to intrinsic long-term value creation. We intend to stay at the forefront of biopharmaceutical science and innovation.

Now turning to our results. I am pleased that both on an annual and a quarterly basis excluding exchange we reported sales growth in Diabetes, Hospital Acute Care and Vaccines as well as in our Animal Health business. We also delivered on both our quarterly and full-year non-GAAP EPS commitments. Our core underlying portfolio continues to perform well and our commercial organization remains focused on those areas where Merck medicines and vaccines can make their greatest contributions.

We've also said that an important part of our strategy is actively pursuing the best external opportunities to augment our portfolio while divesting products and businesses that we believe can be better maximized outside of Merck. The divestiture of our Consumer Care business as well as the acquisition of Cubist are examples of how we are executing this strategy. As we move into 2015, we will continue to look for the best opportunities to collaborate with academia and pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms to bring forward the next generation of medical breakthroughs that can deliver value to patients, physicians and payers and fuel our future.

Our increased commercial focus, acquisition of key assets, and an unprecedented number of regulatory approvals in 2014 will enable us to launch several new innovative products in 2015, each with the potential to serve a critical unmet medical need. We are poised to capitalize on each of these opportunities. I am pleased that last year we not only achieved six new product approvals in the US but also made steady progress in advancing our late stage pipeline. We now have over 10 Phase 3 programs targeting many of the world's largest public health needs.

Roger will talk more about the exciting programs in our pipeline shortly but let me reiterate, our industry is built on a foundation of innovation. Effectively pursuing the most promising scientific discoveries both internally and externally ultimately will be the key differentiator in determining companies' ability to create long-term value for their shareholders and society.

Reducing our operating costs has allowed us to respond more rapidly to changes in the healthcare environment, drive greater profitability and invest in our late stage portfolio. A little over a year ago we pledged to reduce R&D and SG&A costs by $2.5 billion by the end of 2015 and I am pleased to say that we are on track to meet this goal.

Finally, we have not lost focus on the importance of returning cash to our shareholders. The past year allowed us to return approximately $13 billion to shareholders through our dividend and share repurchases. In 2015, our framework for deploying capital will remain consistent. We will balance investing in our business with funding compelling business development opportunities and we remain firmly committed to returning cash to our shareholders.

Today, Merck has the opportunity to reduce the burden of disease in five of the most significant global health battles, cancer, hepatitis C, cardiometabolic disease, resistant microbial infection, and Alzheimer's disease. This is only possible because of our unwavering commitment to the discovery and development of transformational medicines and our willingness to challenge how we operate. These are both important forms of innovation and both will enhance our ability to thrive in the changing healthcare environment and produce long-term value for patients, customers, society and shareholders.

In closing, we are continuing the strong momentum we achieved in 2014. We have made significant strides in our strategic initiative and accomplished groundbreaking milestones in our R&D labs. Moving forward, we expect to continue making major progress in advancing our late stage pipeline, gaining first-in-class approvals and launching new innovative products.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP AND PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken. Good morning, everyone. This morning I will provide you with an overview of the Global Human Health fourth-quarter results. I'll also provide you with some context on the 2015 outlook. My comments will be on a constant currency basis.

We finished 2014 with solid performance. Sales reached $9.4 billion in the fourth quarter and it reflected growth in our four core areas of Diabetes, Hospital Acute Care, Vaccines and Oncology, and those are partially offset by hepatitis C market dynamics and product divestitures. If you exclude the divestitures, sales grew 3%.

First I will review performance of several key products and then I'll provide an update by region and I'll begin with Januvia.

The Januvia franchise reached approximately $1.7 billion in sales and grew 6% in the quarter and 4% for the full year. In the fourth quarter, sales in the United States grew 5%. Our increased focus in investments enabled us to defend our 75% market share and to grow the DPP-4 class.

In our international markets, sales grew 6%. Europe and emerging markets continue to grow on strong demand. In Japan, sales declined as a result of DPP-4 class repricing and the competitive environment. We committed to grow Januvia in 2014 and our team worked hard to deliver on that commitment. We are entering 2015 with momentum to deliver another year of growth.

Next in hospital and specialty care, sales of Isentress were approximately $420 million in the fourth quarter, a decline of 1%. Internationally, we drove growth in Europe on continued volume increases. Emerging markets sales grew as a result of demand and of tenders. In the United States, sales declined due to a tough year-over-year comparison and competitive dynamics. On a full-year basis, Isentress grew 3%. We expect continued competitive pressure in 2015 but we believe that based on its efficacy and tolerability that Isentress will remain a compelling treatment option for physicians.

Sales of our immunology products reached approximately $750 million in the fourth quarter growing 5%. Simponi remains the fastest growing anti-TNF in the markets where we promote the brand.

Remicade sales declined 3% reflecting biosimilar competition in smaller EU markets partially offset by growth in core markets. For the full year, our immunology business grew 10%. However, we will lose patent protection for Remicade this month across the remainder of our European markets. We expect competition for biosimilars to begin upon patent expiry. While we believe we will retain many current patients being treated with Remicade, we will face increased competition for new patients and there will be mandatory price reductions in certain markets.

In Hospital Acute Care, sales were approximately $650 million and grew by 12% this quarter. We saw continued uptake of Bridion in Europe and emerging markets as well as solid performances from our antibiotic and antifungal treatments. Our Hospital Acute Care business grew 11% for the full year. In 2015, we expect continued growth driven by the strength of our legacy brands and the acquisition of Cubist.

As a global leader in Hospital Acute Care, we look forward to this business being a significant contributor to growth for Merck.

Now turning to our Vaccine business. In the fourth quarter, Vaccine sales grew 18% to $1.6 billion. Growth was driven by pediatric vaccines, Pneumovax and Zostavax and they were partially offset by Gardasil. Sales of Zostavax were $285 million in the quarter, the highest quarter of sales of the brand. In the United States, sales grew 7% in part as a result of our new DTC campaign. Internationally, sales grew 15%. We are now launching in more than 25 markets globally.

Gardasil sales declined 6% due to timing of customer purchases as well as fewer catch-up cohort vaccinations in certain emerging markets. We look forward to the launch of Gardasil 9 in the US in the coming months. The ACIP is expected to discuss Gardasil 9 at its meeting in late February. We see Gardasil 9 as the best-in-class HPV vaccine that will offer greater protection against cervical cancer and build upon our legacy in this important market. On a full-year basis, our Vaccine business grew 4% to sales of $5.7 billion. Vaccines remains an important core focus area in 2015.

Now turning to some geographic commentary for the fourth quarter. Sales increased 1% in the US but decreased 4% in Europe. In both regions, we drove growth in Januvia and in Hospital Acute Care. But sales were impacted by continued declines in hepatitis C portfolio and from product divestitures.

Sales in Japan grew 1%. Despite increases in Pneumovax sales, the biannual price decreases and ophthalmology product divestitures impacted growth this quarter. Additionally in Japan, we launched Belsomra in November and we are encouraged by the early results of our launch efforts and from feedback by physicians.

Sales in emerging markets grew 7% driven by strong performance in China which grew 14%. Mexico and Turkey also contributed meaningfully to emerging market growth this quarter.

Now I'll spend a few moments speaking about the Keytruda launch. We have made significant progress in bringing Keytruda to patients in the United States and through our expanded access program in several markets around the world. Sales of Keytruda were $50 million in the fourth quarter. Important to the early success of our launch is the strong market access we secured for Keytruda. Virtually all claims for the labeled indication are reimbursed without restriction within two months.

In December, through broad acceptance of academic centers and community treaters, we estimate roughly 2000 patients were receiving treatment with Keytruda. These figures indicate rapid uptake in patients fighting refractory metastatic melanoma. Furthermore, we continue to fortify our Oncology business unit as we prepare for potential launches in other tumors such as non-small lung cancer. We are investing to be a global leader in Oncology.

Now I'll briefly discuss 2015. 2015 will be an exciting year for Merck with current and new product launches. We will be launching Gardasil 9 and as we speak, the launch meetings for Zerbaxa and Belsomra are occurring in the United States.

We also look forward to a potential launch of Bridion in the United States later this year. And of course, we will continue to maximize the potential for Keytruda.

In summary, Global Human Health executed on our strategy in 2014. We focused investments in priority commercial areas and priority markets. We drove growth in Januvia, in Hospital Acute Care, and in Vaccines. We acquired key assets from Cubist with near-term revenue and good long-term growth prospects to solidify our leadership position in Hospital Acute Care. We divested several non-core products and franchises to increase our focus while reducing our costs and at the same time, we executed on a robust launch of Keytruda.

I believe that the strength of our underlying business, our commercial strategy and our new launch opportunities position us well for future growth.

Now I'll turn the call over to my colleague, Rob Davis.

ROB DAVIS, EVP AND CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Adam. Good morning, everyone. As Ken and Adam shared with you, 2014 was a year of strong execution and solid performance for Merck. From a financial perspective, we are leading a transformation of the business and are on track to achieve our strategic goals by sharpening our focus.

From a deal perspective, we executed a significant number of business development deals in 2014. From our divestiture of the Consumer Care business to the acquisitions of Idenix, Cubist and OncoEthix, our deal strategy shows we are focusing our business on our core areas which we believe will help drive future growth.

We also making steady progress to change the business model and achieve our cost reduction goals. Consistent with our guidance for 2014, we were successful in lowering our M&A and R&D expenses below 2013 levels. This drove a leveraged P&L and is an example of how we've changed the way we are operating.

For shareholders, 2014 was a significant year from a capital allocation perspective. We returned approximately $13 billion to shareholders through the dividend and share repurchases. This was a record year for Merck in terms of returning cash to shareholders and shows our commitment to being operationally focused and shareholder minded.

Lastly, we met our guidance targets in 2014. We achieved the top end of our EPS guidance range by delivering $3.49 of earnings. Our performance throughout the year shows that we will manage our business to achieve our financial goals.

Now turning to the fourth quarter. And as a reminder, my remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials.

Total Company revenues were $10.5 billion in the quarter, a decrease of 7% year-over-year which includes a negative 3 percentage point impact from foreign exchange. This decrease reflects $600 million in lost sales due to divestitures including the sale of the Consumer Care business to Bayer and approximately $200 million from the now ended joint venture with AstraZeneca. Excluding these items as well as the impact from patent expiries and foreign exchange, the underlying business grew 3% in the quarter.

As Adam stated, sales in the pharmaceutical business were driven by growth in our core areas offset by divestitures and competition for our Hep C vaccine franchise.

Animal Health delivered a strong quarter with revenue of $885 million, an increase of 8% year-over-year excluding exchange. We had strong growth throughout our portfolio across both species and regions. We continue to see the benefit from the launch of Bravecto, which is now in 30 markets. The Animal Health business grew 5% ex-exchange for the full year 2014 and we continue to expect mid single-digit growth in 2015.

Now moving to expenses. Gross margin was 74.6% in the quarter which represents 160 basis point increase year-over-year. Full-year gross margin of 73.9% was approximately 40 basis points below prior year in line with our guidance.

For operating expenses, we continued to manage our cost base and met our fourth-quarter guidance. For the full year, we reduced our operating expenses by $1.3 billion year-over-year by disproportionately focusing our resources on key clinical programs, core brands, and new product launches. We remain on track to deliver $2.5 billion of cost savings versus our 2012 base by the end of 2015.

Our non-GAAP effective tax rate this quarter was 20% and 24.3% for the full year. The quarterly and full-year rates reflect a benefit from the renewal of the R&D tax credit for 2014. Taken together, we earned $0.87 per share in the fourth quarter as compared to $0.88 per share in the prior year and delivered full-year EPS at the high end of our guidance range.

Now as we turn to guidance and our outlook for 2015, on the topline, we expect revenue to be $38.3 billion to $39.8 billion in 2015 using mid-January exchange rates. This range takes into account several key assumptions including the negative impact of generic and biosimilar competition, approximately $1 billion of net lost sales of acquisitions and divestitures, and $500 million from the end of AstraZeneca joint venture. Additionally, this range reflects $2.6 billion of negative impact of revenue due to the recent strengthening of the US dollar against virtually all other currencies.

This foreign exchange headwind will also impact our EPS in 2015. At mid-January rates, we expect non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $3.32 to $3.47 which reflects a $0.27 impact from foreign currency. If you exclude the impact of exchange, we expect mid single-digit EPS growth in 2015. We also expect EPS in the first half of the year to be lower than EPS in the second half of the year. On a GAAP basis, we expect to earn between $1.62 and $1.91 in 2015.

Now I would look to provide some additional color on the other elements we have built into our EPS guidance. We expect product gross margin to be 75 to 100 basis points higher year-over-year as we see margin expansion from the divestiture of lower margin businesses and products, improving product mix and manufacturing cost improvements. In 2015, we expect operating expenses overall to be lower year-over-year.

For our marketing and administrative expense, we expect a decline versus 2014 as we continue to focus on our operating model. For research and development, we plan to invest in our innovative late stage pipeline and therefore expect a modest increase in our R&D line year-over-year. All together, we remain on track to achieve our target of a $2.5 billion reduction in expenses off of the 2000 base by the end of 2015. I'm sorry, that was a 2012 base.

Regarding tax, we expect a full-year tax rate to be 22% to 23%. As in prior years, our guidance does not assume a renewal of the R&D tax credit in 2015.

Finally, we project average diluted shares outstanding will be approximately $2.86 billion for 2015 reflecting a decrease versus the prior year.

In summary, 2014 was a year of focused execution for Merck. Our commitment to the strategic reshaping of our Company has been evident in the actions we have taken over the past year. We have been able to execute against our goals while thoughtfully removing expenses from our operating base and continuing to drive productivity in our commercial business and in our labs.

Now I will turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP AND PRESIDENT, MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Rob. The fourth quarter saw increased investment in discovery research, clinical development and in regulatory affairs activities at Merck Research Laboratories.

Turning first to product registrations, in December we obtained FDA approval for Gardasil 9, our 9-valent Human Papillomavirus vaccine. As previously discussed, this vaccine will permit immunization against more than 90% of HPV strains associated with the development of cervical cancer.

Summing over the calendar year in 2014, we received US approval for more new molecular entities, that is new drugs and vaccines, than in any previous year in the history of Merck & Co. Also during the fourth quarter, we submitted our file supporting the registration of Bridion for which we had previously received a complete response letter. It is our expectation that the FDA will convene an advisory committee of the Bridion file with an action expected in the second quarter of this year.

On the development side, we continued to make progress on the evaluation of Grazoprevir/Elbasvir together known as our doublet therapy for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection. Phase 3 studies for this once daily therapy were fully enrolled during the fourth quarter which assuming that these data recapitulate what we have described previously in our phase 2 program, should permit FDA filing in the first half of 2015. Results from some of these Phase 3 studies demonstrating the favorable attributes of our doublet therapy will be presented at the European Liver meetings to be held in Vienna in April.

As noted in our press release, last week the US FDA informed us of their intention to rescind our breakthrough designation for Grazoprevir/Elbasvir for the treatment of genotype 1 HCV infection based on the availability of newly registered drugs that address this medical need. We intend to discuss this matter with the Agency in the coming weeks. I will remind you the data presented during the AASLD meetings in November demonstrated the potential of our HCV doublet therapy to provide impressive sustained virologic responses in the vast majority of infected patients irrespective of comorbidities.

We also provided data on our polymerase inhibitor now called MK-3682, which we hope to use as part of future triplet therapy for HCV infection. A robust phase 2 program testing MK-3682 in combination with doublet therapies is already underway and we expect to initiate Phase 3 studies with MK-3682 by the end of the year.

Also in the fourth quarter we provided data at the Society for Melanoma Research on the treatment of patients with advanced metastatic melanoma with Keytruda. In a randomized trial compared with chemotherapy, the objective response rate was 21% versus 4% for chemotherapy at the labeled Keytruda dose and a hazard ratio for progression free survival was 0.57 favoring Keytruda. We continue to study Keytruda in earlier lines of therapy for malignant melanoma. Data from our KEYNOTE 006 study comparing Keytruda with ipilimumab in first or second line therapy of advanced disease will become available by midyear and we have registration enabling studies ongoing or planned in six other tumor types.

As previously disclosed, we intend to file for approval of Keytruda in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer in mid-2015.

In December, we also announced the acquisition of OncoEthix which provides us with access to their leading BET domain antagonist for hematologic and other malignancies. I will have more to say about this molecule during future earnings calls.

The fourth quarter saw important progress in other therapeutic areas. In November, we presented the results of the IMRPOVE-IT trial demonstrating that Vytorin provides significant benefit versus simvastatin in reducing the risk of major cardiovascular events in patients hospitalized following an acute coronary syndrome. The fact that two different mechanisms of LDL cholesterol-lowering, HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, that is statin, and cholesterol absorption inhibitors, that is Zetia, both reduce cardiovascular risk suggests that LDL cholesterol is itself the target of action of these drugs and augurs well for our favorable outcome in the REVEAL study of Anacetrapib.

Although an interim analysis of REVEAL will take place in 2015, we expect the trial to continue to an event driven completion.

Also in the metabolic disease area, we have been informed by the executive committee of the TECOS study that they expect to have results available for presentation at the American Diabetes Association meetings in June. The trial is being administered by the Duke Clinical Research Institute and currently still accruing data.

As Ken mentioned, we are delighted to have the opportunity to form common cause with colleagues in the Cubist research and development organization. We have just embarked upon a holistic review of Cubist's programs but suffice it to say that this group complements our already strong programs in antiviral agents and vaccines.

Finally, I should note that our 2015 schedule promises to be exceptionally busy with substantial new data becoming available across all of our major programs. I look forward to sharing this information with you on future calls. Joe?

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, great. Thank you, Roger and Christie, I think were ready to turn it over to the Q&A portion of the call. And why don't we go ahead and take our first caller.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, thanks so much for taking the questions. So just a couple on the Hep C, the breakthrough therapy designation being rescinded. (inaudible) implications that other companies have received breakthrough therapies -- designations for their products. So is there any other color you can provide on the back and forth around this decision? Did you have a sense this was coming or was this a real surprise to you when it came last week?

And then just on the pricing side, a lot of investor focus there as well in Hep C. Are the dynamics in that market playing out in terms of pricing similar to the way you expected? Is it changing in any way how you view the longevity of this market?

And then maybe if I could just throw in along pricing, are there any comments you could give on the PD-1 in terms of access and in the level of discounting necessary there given that Bristol has a somewhat similar asset as well? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So Vamil, let me just -- this is Roger -- let me just comment with respect to breakthrough designation. We continue to have the sorts of discussions that we've been having with the Agency with regard to our doublet therapy which we are very excited about. Breakthrough designation of course doesn't affect our filing strategy and the data are the data. We have our Phase 3 data and we are moving along with our program. The Agency has invited us to comment on their intent to withdraw breakthrough designation and we intend to have those discussions with the Agency and we'll see where that goes. But meanwhile we are moving forward with our program.

And Adam, I think you have some --.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So with regard to hepatitis C first, the first thing I want to say is that it is still a large market. There's over 3 million patients in the US alone and 100 million patients worldwide. So we believe that this is a market that will be sustainable for a long period of time. Whenever there is competitors, there's going to be increased competition in the US on pricing and rebates and although the magnitude may be discussed, I think the fact that there is competition is not a surprise at all.

The good news is as we look at our success in managed care over the years, we've had a lot of success across every therapeutic area that we compete within whether it be diabetes or cholesterol or HIV, even HCV when we had Victrelis in the marketplace. So we still feel good that we will be able to compete in the competitive environment with our very strong managed care capabilities.

I want to remind you we have the doublet coming which we are excited about but we are also excited about the potential of a triplet in the future as well.

As you look at Keytruda, so we are very pleased with the market access that we have today and the fact that reimbursement is happening very quickly for the approved indication. We continue to believe that the market is going to reward innovation particularly innovation that's going to lead to improved clinical outcomes over the current therapies. And if you look at Keytruda, the key is building a wall of data around that product and we've got this very broad clinical program with over 60 studies and we are looking at Keytruda monotherapy as well as in combination therapies. And we believe as that data comes out it will continue to reinforce the value proposition that we have for Keytruda.

So we are pleased with the initial access and we are going to continue to compete very effectively in that marketplace as well.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Vamil. And Christie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thank you. A couple of questions on Keytruda and then on Remicade. On Keytruda, can you give us an updated timing on KEYNOTE 10 which is Phase 3 and lung cancer survival data? Clintrial seems to suggest it could report out later this year. And on that will there be an interim look at any point at those results?

Second Keytruda question, can you comment on how you view the impact of Keytruda from the new Compendia listing that supports the use of both your product and Optivo in first-line melanoma? It seems like an unexpected win for you guys given the fact that at least to my knowledge you don't have any first-line melanoma data yet. Yet NCCN just recently gave you this recommendation.

And then on Remicade pricing in Europe, in Norway, the product -- the biosimilar product looks like it's coming in at something like a 60% discount. I know that's a small market but I'm wondering if you can talk about where you think biosimilar pricing might land in major markets in Europe in 2015?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Tim, with respect to KEYNOTE 10, this trial as with most all of the others is an event driven trial and so the overall survival results will be looked at as a function of the number of events that occur in order to be adequately powered to see a difference which we would hope would anticipate would exist.

So we can't really predict what the timing will be. The timing that is in clinicaltrials.gov is our best estimate of what we are expecting. We of course have a data safety monitoring board that's reviewing these data. There always could be changes in terms of what is seen and they might call us and want us to look at it but that's really the status of the trial as it currently stands.

I would just like to say that with respect to melanoma data, the question that Adam will take on, but we do have a considerable amount of data in all lines of therapy in melanoma which we presented in various different settings so we have a lot of efficacy data that's already available in the first-line setting in ipi-naive patients.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Tim, let me give you some context on Keytruda and then I'll get directly to your question on NCCN. So we believe there's about 2000 patients who were being treated in December and we believe that virtually all those patients were treated on the current label. To give you some perspective on compendia, if you look at the approval in 2014, NCCN compendium guidelines added Keytruda for melanoma treatment consistent with our label very quickly. But as you mentioned in mid-January, NCCN updated the guidelines for melanoma and they've broadened the recommendation to melanoma and I'll give you a sense of what they did.

First, there was consensus among NCCN panel that Keytruda and Opdivo has a higher response rate and less toxicity compared to ipilimumab. Second, both drugs are included as options for first-line treatment and included on a list of preferred regimens. So although we promote on label only, it's clearly a positive for the anti-PD-1 class and it's a positive for the future of cancer treatment. So we'll see how this plays out over the coming months but we believe obviously it is a positive for the class.

As you look at Remicade, I think there's a couple things to think about. First of all, we had continued growth of Simponi but we had a decline in Remicade of 3% and we are certainly starting to see some impact from the 20% of markets that had availability of biosimilars last year and Norway is one of those. What we saw in Norway is first of all, it's been available for over a year. It was launched in October 2013, the biosimilar.

And I don't want to comment on commercial strategy of the competitors, but we have seen this tender at a very sharp discount as you mentioned. But our expectation remains that customers will continue to take a measured approach in how they use biosimilars and especially for the patients who are well-controlled at least at this early stage as we go into the broader European markets. So therefore we believe in the broader European markets we will see significant price decreases from the competition but that it will impact primarily the new patients coming in. Therefore we will try to hang onto the existing patients for as long as we can.

At the same time, there will be certain markets like France and Spain that even if you hold 100% of market share because of reference pricing, we are going to have a lower price there no matter what happens in terms of market share. So we will be monitoring and discussing that as we get through this year.

And the key for us is continuing to have strong growth of Simponi and as you saw Simponi grew about 40% in the fourth quarter versus prior year fourth quarter. So we are seeing good growth there. I will say though that we don't expect the growth of Simponi to offset the decline in Remicade as we are in 2015.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, thank you, Tim. And Christie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, can you give us a little bit more color on the animal health? It seems to have gotten much stronger.

Second, can you talk about the FX impact on the expense side for this year? You mentioned obviously a lot of color on the topline. And then just update us on when we are going to see the Phase 3 data for the C. diff product. Thanks.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: So, Rob, do want to talk about FX and expense for 2015.

ROB DAVIS: Sure. So as you look at foreign currency in the prepared comments as we mentioned, given what we've seen really since September of last year is the significant strengthening of the US dollar versus pretty much all currencies. We are seeing an impact as we said in our prepared comments; we see $0.27 of potential FX impact built into our assumptions.

As we look at how this flows through the P&L, we do get some natural hedge ability through our numbers and we are hedging actively in the marketplace but we can only offset a small percentage of the impact. And in fact, I would call it more a blunting of the impact than an ability to mitigate it.

As we look at the flow through from sales to EPS, you will see it flow through at a slightly greater rate due to the fact that we do have more expenses in US dollar driven primarily due to our R&D expenses in the United States and our headquarter expenses relative to the percentage of our revenue. So that's all the dynamic of what's playing through in the numbers you've seen. But as I mentioned in the prepared comments, if you exclude FX from an earnings perspective, we actually grew. We will be growing from 2014 to 2015.

KEN FRAZIER: So on Animal Health, you can see the fourth quarter showed very strong performance from our Animal Health unit and overall 2014 was a very strong year. And the good news is that it is driven by strength across all regions and all species and in particular on companion animals, it was really supported as we said by the launch of Bravecto which is underway all over the world and this year we are looking forward to mid single-digit growth in 2015.

We have also said that we will continue to look for opportunities to augment our animal health business in ways that create overall value for our shareholders. So we are very excited by that business and it is performing very well.

ROB DAVIS: It might be worth adding that recall that we've now lapped the Zilmax impact so part of what you are seeing in the strengthening quarter-on-quarter or fourth quarter this year versus fourth quarter last year is in fact the fact that Zilmax is now out of that compare.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Okay. Thank you, Marc, for the questions. And Christie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks for the question. First off, wanted to get a little bit of color on the tax rate and the significant drop in the tax rate. Rob, can you just give us a little color on what the changes are there particularly in the context of no R&D credit actually being incorporated into that number?

And then the second question is for Roger. Roger, can you help me understand a little bit more the differentiation about -- between the test and the biomarker, the potential availability of a biomarker. A competitor just received breakthrough designation on the basis of PDL-1 status so I'm just wondering will Merck or would you expect Merck to have their diagnostic available or the Dako diagnostic available within the context of the lung cancer filing? And then also would it be available at launch? I think there's a lot of confusion amongst investors as to the realities of the PD-L1 biomarker test. Thanks.

ROB DAVIS: Good morning. I will answer the first question around tax. There are really several things contributing to the decrease in our tax rate year-over-year. First, the divestiture of the Consumer Care business is expected to benefit our 2015 tax rate given the fact that the majority of the US Consumer Care business was a US-based business and that more than offsets the fact that there is a slight impact and from a negative perspective to the acquisition of Cubist. So net of acquisitions and divestitures, we actually see a benefit flowing through our tax rate.

And then outside of these factors, we do have favorable product and geographic mix year on year. We have some one-time items -- I don't want to get into them -- but flowing through. And then probably most importantly, we have and continue to look for specific strategies to actively manage the tax rate going forward although we don't we give longer-term guidance. Clearly that is something we are very focused on and we will continue to see as an important contributor.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Just on PD-L1 biomarker, first, with respect to what it's actually good for in non-small cell lung cancer, there is no doubt that there is a correlation between PD-L1 expression and the pretreatment specimens and response rate progression free survival that we measure after treatment. So we will in fact have the Dako associated PD-L1 antibody test for immunohistochemistry available for filing and available for use with the drug because that is an important aspect of treating patients.

On the other hand, it is important to recognize that PD-L1 is not an absolute predictor of responsiveness. That is to say that there are PD-L1 negative patients who nevertheless respond to therapy. So the issue will be how to capture in [layling] language the way in which to use this test. It's not an absolutely predictive biomarker but it is an important indicator of prognosis with respect to response.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, great. Thank you, Seamus. And Christie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thanks for taking the question. I appreciate all the clarity. Several but very short. One on Januvia, Adam. In the US in 2014, would you mind giving us the volume versus price component? Particularly curious about price. What happened to your net price in 2014?

And then on the CETP, Roger, you mentioned your expectation is that's going to go to final analysis. I just want to be clear, so you're basically telling us that you just don't expect that to be stopped early and any expansion on that comment would be appreciated.

And then on TECOS if I may, you mentioned ADA that you will have the data but should investors expect the topline release before that? Yes or no? Thanks a lot.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Mark, this is Adam. With regards to Januvia in the US, there was some positive impact from price but it's mostly from volume and if you look at TRX volume and you look at whether it's the current week or rolling 12 weeks, you are seeing anywhere from a 6% to 7% increase for same week or same rolling 12 week time period in the prior year. So a little bit from price but mostly volume.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, and Mark, it is Roger. On CETP, yes, I think it's very unlikely that the study would be stopped early. It is important in general to the executive committee of the study I think speaking for those groups that are involved, Oxford and TIMI, they are extremely anxious to have a definitive answer with respect to the question of whether HDL elevation of the kind that you achieve with anacetrapib through CETP inhibition actually has a meaningful additive or better effect on cardiovascular outcomes when used in combination with -- when used as a treatment for cardiovascular risk.

Keep in mind again as you know well, Mark, that anacetrapib lowers LDL cholesterol dramatically. So my comments were meant to say that since we know that LDL-cholesterol lowering is itself associated with a favorable outcome, one expects a favorable outcome, the question that's being asked is can we do still more through CETP inhibition? I think we will go to the end trying to find that out. Of course we are all looking very carefully at safety along the way and that could be a reason to stop the study. But on efficacy I think it's very unlikely to stop at an interim. I think it will go to completion.

And then with respect to TECOS, we just have to see what the data look like. The study is being of course run by an independent executive committee, Duke Center is coordinating it. They are going to pull together the data. They believe that they are going to be able to pull that together in time for presentation at the ADA meetings. And depending on what we see, that will decide how that's announced to you and to the public at large.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks Mark. Appreciate it. Christie next caller.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Yes, thanks for taking the question. So the first question has to do with some of the commentary, Adam, you gave on Remicade. I think you've indicated (technical difficulty) there has been some reference pricing. Across the major European countries, what is your assumption about the price compression across the major European countries in your plan for that franchise?

And then the second question on your HIV strategy, Roger, Isentress and (inaudible), a combination, secured approval on it. Can you talk about doravirine product profile, timing for completion of Phase 3 trials and how that fits into a more broader combination strategy with the other assets that you have within the HIV portfolio?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, John. So first of all with regard to Remicade, it's hard to say because you have never had a product of this magnitude, with biosimilar competition in major European markets. It's hard to predict based upon what happened in the smaller markets as to exactly what will happen in a large market. What we are assuming is that we can maintain a large number of the currently treated patients and we will see the most pressure in new patients coming into the markets.

The immediate mandatory price reductions, there's really four or five markets where that occurs specifically France, Spain, Austria and Belgium and those are markets that it's going to depend on what the biosimilars do in other parts of Europe in terms of competition and what they do discount versus how they tried to compete for the business in certain other markets.

So what we have assumed is that we keep the majority of patients. There will be some pricing pressure. If you look at the overall franchise, we think that it will decline versus the prior year because the growth in Simponi which will remain strong will not offset the pressure that we'll see on the Remicade and the price erosion. But it's just too early to know exactly what could happen.

We've seen discounts so far of approximately 30% but then you see what happened in Norway which was more steep than that. So we will have to see where they go and we will report over time what we see in the marketplace.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: John, with respect to HIV strategy without going into an enormous amount of detail and the totality of it, as you know, Isentress is an extremely important platform for therapy and the data that we described last year from the advanced study demonstrate that moving Isentress to a once-daily platform obviously is something that is important to do. MK-1439, doravirine, is intended ultimately -- if it reaches its objectives to replace Efavirenz, which is another platform and the non-nucleocide transcriptase inhibitor category, what we know is that this is an extremely important aspect of combination therapy and yet there are some real concerns about the ability of patients to adhere to Efavirenz because of adverse experiences.

1439 has very favorable properties. Doravirine has very favorable properties. We are expecting to see -- we are in Phase 3 now for that study. We are expecting to see data in the 2016, late 2016 timeframe. And based on what those data show us then we will be in a position to put that molecule in combination with the other programs that we have including Isentress.

So that's an aspect. There are many, many aspects of the combination therapy that gives you a sense of where we think we are -- where we think we are right now.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay , great. Thanks. Christie, your next caller.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAY OLSON, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, thanks for taking the question. This is Jay Olson on behalf of Jami. A couple questions for Roger. The first question is about Hep C from our regulatory perspective. With the recent approvals of oral Hep C regimens, does it change the way you plan to run your Phase 3 program? And specifically, will you include the new standard of care as an active comparator in your Phase 3 studies?

And then second, can you update us on the development plans for MK-4166? When should we expect to see clinical data and when should we look for new studies to be posted on clinicaltrials.gov? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: First of all, for the Hep C program, our Phase 3 studies, the first wave of Phase 3 studies that support of registration are essentially complete. So those data are being prepared and our expectation is that we are going to be able to file the Hep C program in the first half of this year. That's what we've said and so there is really no change to those programs that we can engineer at this point. The studies are done and of course those studies were studies that we designed following lots of discussions with the FDA. So that's kind of where we are with respect to those.

We are looking forward to having the opportunity to describe those data to you and the data will be presented in significant part at EASL.

With respect to 4166 which others know as our GITR agonist program which is one of the combination programs in our immuno-oncology program. It is in Phase 1, has been since the middle of last year. Data are accruing and we hope to have the opportunity to share those data with you in the not-too-distant future.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great, thank you, Jay. And Christie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: good morning and thanks for taking the questions. Just a few quick ones. On odanacatib, can you give us an update on the progress towards regulatory submission? On the business development front, can you just give us an update on your strategy with respect to therapies of areas of interest and optimal deal size and whether any of this has been impacted at all by the recent high-profile pricing headlines?

And then finally on the Animal Health business, are there any specific internal reviews scheduled with regards to potential divestiture of this unit or is this more of an ongoing fluid process? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: So with respect to refining the overall portfolio, not with respect to Animal Health specifically, we continue to evaluate our strategy and our opportunities to create greater value for shareholders and for customers. I have said very clearly that we see Animal Health as a great business. We are very interested in that business. We are looking to augment that business.

From a business development standpoint, first of all, we do remain committed to business development as a way of augmenting our pipeline with programs that as Roger says provide unambiguous promotable advantage. And while we had a significant number of deals last year including Cubist, Idenix and OncoEthix, in 2015, we will also pursue the right kind of deals which for us are bolt-on opportunities that will either drive our pipeline which of course is the most important thing to our future growth or we might pursue additional commercial assets if we believe that we have the ability in our portfolio to maximize with our reach, our expertise and our fit what those molecules can't do.

So I would say we'll continue to look for value-added bolt on opportunities and I will remind that we believe we have the right balance sheet to continue to do this.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Colin, with respect to odanacatib, as we've said, as we showed at last year's meetings, odanacatib has very impressive effects in terms of reducing the risk of vertebral non-vertebral and hip fracture and has a particularly strong effect on reducing the risk of clinical vertebral fractures in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis. The problem in our data set was there were some inconsistencies with respect to MACE events and we decided after looking at that and after discussions with the FDA that we would readjudicate all of those events.

So we are in the process of doing that, the readjudication is going forward, FDA has participated in the design of that process and we are working through it. As soon as those data are complete, we will pull it all together and we will have the opportunity to file it which we expect to do by the end of the year.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great, thank you, Colin. And Colin, congratulations on the arrival of your first baby, your daughter a few weeks ago. Christie, next question.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. First a follow-up on pembrolizumab in lung and the filing around midyear. It would seem that the data available in the PD-1 negative population is too limited to support a filing in that population. I'm wondering if you disagree?

Secondly, to clarify on your comments on the REVEAL trial, are you saying that it won't stop because the DSMB wants a definitive answer and not because there won't be a reduction in the event rate at the interim? So there could be a reduction in the event rate at the interim but it won't stop because a definitive answer is sought? That's the second question.

And then lastly, Glaxo recently released some very strong topline results from their zoster vaccine. Two questions, if the results hold up when the full data is released, what will be your commercial response? It would seem logical to me that Mark would do a study of Zostavax given in a two dose regimen. Are you contemplating that study? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Steve, with respect to PD-L1 in lung, we actually have a very large data set. We've described through our presentations and also clinicaltrials.gov more than nearly 600 patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Included in that are a lot of individuals who have low PD-L1 expression. But let me point out that it is a continuum of PD-L1 expression. So the issue really is when you are looking at it with our immunohistochemistry test, what is the cut point that you use. There are patients who are absolutely completely negative, we can't find a single cell seemingly that's PD-L1 expressing. Of course that's based on a very small biopsy sample. You don't know what would happen if you looked at another sample. There could be populations of cells that are expressing there.

And then there are others in which seemingly every cell is expressing, and then the vast bulk of individuals who are somewhere in the middle. So the question is what is a PD-L1 positive patient? We obviously have an approach to that that we've developed through a series of statistical analyses, but that's something that clearly will have to be reviewed with the agency as we go forward.

With respect to REVEAL, I am very confident for the reasons that I mentioned that there will be a favorable effect of anacetrapib in terms of cardiovascular risk. It has very impressive effects on LDL-cholesterol and that should be associated with the lowering of risk, but that isn't the question really that's addressed in the trial. The trial is trying to address the question of whether HDL elevation known for decades as associated with improved cardiovascular outcomes has a meaningful effect.

And for this reason, the trial is structured in such a way that as is typical for such trials that it's unlikely that a DSMB is going to call this study unless there's just an extraordinary, extraordinary favorable result. So that's my expectation.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Steve, with regard to Zostavax, so first when you think about the GSK product there's still a lot more we need to learn beyond the limited phase 3 efficacy data that was available in the press release. So we are looking forward to the data being published and available so we can learn a lot more about that vaccine.

But if you look at Zostavax specifically, there a lot of attributes that customers really value. First of all, it's a single-dose vaccine. It has an established track record of safety and efficacy in both clinical trials but also in real-world evidence settings.

We've already distributed over 20 million doses across 25 markets. There's still a lot of unvaccinated patients in the US alone that can benefit from it. And as you can see in the marketplace, we've increased our direct-to-consumer advertising. We are doing a lot to try to treat as many patients as possible in the short term.

KEN FRAZIER: To be blunt, we are trying to get patients to originate to get a single-dose vaccine, and we think that that is something we can continue to do. Getting people to originate twice to get a double shot, it's probably a little bit more challenging.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great, thanks, Steve. Christie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Guggenheim Security.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Yes, good morning. Thanks very much. I'll be brief and it's really around OpEx. Adam, you made some comments around the reduction in SG&A and some modest increase in R&D but with Sivextro launching in Europe, Zerbaxa in the US and some others, the question is are you really providing sufficient support to those new launches?

Second, likewise from an R&D perspective with TECOS rolling off, the question is I might have thought much like 2014, R&D expenses would be flat to down yet they are up. Is that more related to increased dollars spent for Keytruda or what?

And then third, again on CTP, anacetrapib, Roger, forgive me if you've actually stated this, but is it your intention to put out a press release or will it be at the end of a quarter or part of a quarter call when you will state the trial has continued, the DSMB, etc. etc.? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Tony, I'll start with regard to operational excellence. It first starts off with focus and what you've seen is we've really put our resources behind the four focus areas that I've talked about before and although total SG&A had come down last year, what you saw is we increased our spend in diabetes and we built an oncology business unit to launch Keytruda and we fully allocated resources to there. We look at every launch as a very important opportunity and we intend to fund those launches to be successful. And we will cut in other areas but we are not going to cut in areas that are key priority growth areas for us in particular when you think about Diabetes, Hospital Acute Care, Vaccines and Oncology. But also other launches that are even outside of those areas, we are going to fund those and we are going to resource those for success. So it really does come down to where else will we reduce expenses and it's going to be outside of those key growth areas.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Broadly speaking for R&D, recognize the magnitude of the clinical trial costs associated with moving forward with the totality of the Keytruda program and all of the other programs that we are pursuing. That said, I believe firmly that you have to live within your means and we will do everything we can to prioritize those investments. This is something that Adam and I do together in thinking about how to develop our portfolios and we are quite disciplined about that and we do expect that because of the profound opportunities with Keytruda, there will be an increase in expenses. But we are going to manage that pretty carefully.

With respect to anacetrapib, we are -- the trial will continue. There will not be a reason to announce that the trial is continuing. If something happens of course we will let you know about it but in general I think you should expect that you will hear about the trial when we obtain the results.

ROB DAVIS: And Tony, this is Rob. I just might add that I do think and agree with Adam, we are adequately investing where we need to invest for new products. I think the fact that we are growing the R&D spend is more a statement of the success of our programs and our excitement around our pipeline because to Roger's point, we are very disciplined and I think that shows in the fact that overall we are still expecting to lower OpEx in 2015 versus 2014 versus focus. So it is I think a good story of focus and discipline.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great , thank you, Tony. And Christie, I think we have time for two more callers.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. First, Roger, on anacetrapib, can you tell us how specifically the study leaders and yourselves would attribute benefit to LDL lowering versus HCl raising at the end of study?

Secondly, for Adam, do you have any recent marketshare data on how Keytruda is faring versus Optivo in the labeled indication and perhaps how you are trying to differentiate your molecule and how you might try to differentiate in lung?

And lastly post IMRPOVE-IT, are there any updated plans for the Liptruzet product and are you thinking OTC on Zetia at all? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Okay, on Anacetrapib, Gregg, there is no way to assign benefit to any particular mechanism except to say that there is an awfully good nomogram that correlates LDL cholesterol-lowering with the degree of reduction in major cardiovascular events. That nomogram is supported by a whole set of studies with different agents now particularly in light of IMPROVE-IT.

So you have a general feel for the magnitude that you are expecting. The question is do you see something that is above and beyond that? I think that what's critical in the study of Anacetrapib is to get a very, very hard number and to be really comfortable with the magnitude of the treatment effect and we will see that when the study completes.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Gregg, with regard to picture it up. There's really no market share data at this point time. It's still very early but a couple things to think about. First of all, we noted that in December we have about 2000 patients and most of those are, the vast majority of those are the approved indications. So you know the math, you know how many patients are out there. We think we've done a very good job in terms of the labeled identification getting a lot of patients already on Keytruda.

But I think the key thing is that this marketplace has room for multiple competitors and it's going to play out over years. It's not going to play out over days or weeks or months and as I think about it, I think about this marketplace almost like the anti-TNFs where you multiple players, some are strong in one indication and then another could be stronger in a different indication. We're going to have to see how a combination plays out over the years.

But what we are doing is we are building our oncology business unit to really maximize the potential of Keytruda over the long-term. And Roger in the past has talked about the numerous studies that we have underway as monotherapy, the number of cancer types that we are studying and we believe that the totality of the data will allow us to really be able to be successful for Keytruda over time.

With regard to Liptruzet, I'll broaden it to how do we think about Vytorin and Zetia and the overall Zetia franchise. We have to wait for the information to be in a label in the US before our representatives can begin to promote the product and that hasn't occurred yet but once it does occur, we'll actively promote the data into label. We are hearing very good comments from cardiologists and physicians about the trial but we are going to wait before we can promote it to a label in the US.

The good news is outside the US, the patent in Europe goes past 2016 and in Japan, it goes into 2019. So in other markets around the world, we have a longer time in order for us to actually be successful introducing the IMRPOVE-IT data to physicians in those countries.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great , thanks, Gregg. Christie, our last caller.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks very much. Just a couple quick ones here. First, coming back to HCV, I guess just elaborating a little bit more. Do you see access as a challenge in 2016 given some of the exclusive contracts that are currently being signed by some of your competitors? Should we think about another step down in price for the category as you enter the market?

Second one was on Keytruda. Beyond the lung filing, what's the next tumor type we should be watching in terms of a potential filing?

And then finally as we think about the broader IL portfolio at Merck, when could we see additional Merck developed IO agents enter the clinic and what mechanisms are you most excited about as you think about your preclinical portfolio? Thanks so much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So Chris, first with regard to HCV, first of all, we don't know the exact language in the contracts that our competitors have signed so I'll put that aside not knowing their exact wording in the contracts. But in general, we have had their very, very good success with managed care access across multiple different therapeutic areas, multiple different specialty classes where there's entrenched competitors and we believe that we will be able to get good access once we launch the product. I don't want to discuss our contracting or pricing strategy but we are going to make sure that we are competitive in the marketplace in order to get access.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Chris, with regard to Keytruda filings, as we have discussed before, beyond melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer, last year we had the opportunity to present data from five additional tumor types in which response rates really suggested registration enabling studies to proceed and we are pursuing all of those. So that includes of course head and neck cancer, it includes gastric cancer, it includes bladder cancer, Triple-negative breast cancer and Hodgkin's lymphoma data. We have quite strong quite provocative data in all these areas that we've had a chance to share with you.

We've initiated studies in many of those cases and depending on what those results look like, that would provide the basis potentially for filings going forward. We will have a lot more to say about that but those are the areas which are most advanced right now. And a look at clinicaltrials.gov will reveal that in particular for the head and neck cancer and (inaudible) cancers.

And then with respect to other immuno-oncology assets, of course, we have the GITR asset we've already talked about. We've discussed LAG-3, which will be coming forward. We are very interested in the set of cell surface molecules that are both stimulatory and antagonistic with respect to immune regulation and we have developed internally derived antibodies against a whole cluster of those and you are going to have a chance to see a number of them coming forward in this calendar year.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Roger. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, let me just summarize. I think we had a solid 2014 with growth in all of our core areas, EPS at the high-end of the range. Importantly six new product approvals in the United States and that innovation momentum continues into 2015. We will be filing for lung in mid-2015. Our HCV filing is in the first half of 2015. We are making steady progress in a number of areas within MRL and we're going to continue through business development to develop the best external collaborations we can.

As it relates to 2015 underlying business, our core business again will be growing and again I stress that ex ForEx, we are growing EPS mid-single digits in 2015. So the underlying portfolio is performing well and the Merck research labs are performing well.

So thank you very much for hanging in there with us for a little bit more of an extended call. We look forward to talking to you soon.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
iinsulin : Diabetes Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty : Drugs/Medication | ihormp : Hormone Products
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gdias : Diabetes | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150206eb24002xl
  


 HD
 Q3  2014  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,229 words
   PD
27 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to Merck's third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Joseph Romanelli, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
JOSEPH ROMANELLI, VP OF IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Jackie, and good morning, everyone. I would also like to say good afternoon and good evening to everyone listening outside the United States. Welcome to Merck's third-quarter 2014 conference call.

Before I turn the call over to Ken I want to remind you of a couple of items. First, there are a number of items in the GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. We have excluded these items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables and you can see them in our press release in Table 2. This will give you a better sense of our underlying business performance.

There are three tables in the press release. The first table provides the GAAP results. Table number 2 reconciles our GAAP P&L to the non-GAAP results and Table 3 provides sales performance for the Company's business units and our products, both on a reported basis and excluding foreign exchange.

During the call we will be referring to Table 2 when we discuss the P&L and Table 3 when we talk about revenue performance.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon Merck's current belief and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

The Company's SEC filings including Item 1A in the 2013 10-K identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement. Our SEC filings can be found on the website at Merck.com and you can also find our earnings release and all the tables there as well.

Now with that, I would like to say good morning to Ken Frazier, our Chairman and CEO; Rob Davis, our CFO; Adam Schechter, Head of Global Human Health; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, Head of Merck Research Labs. With that I will turn the call over to Ken. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Joe. Good morning everyone. Thank you all for joining the call today. We again reported solid earnings this morning but before I discuss our performance, please allow me to remind you of the strategy that consistently guides us. Merck remains focused on bringing forward medicines and vaccines that make a difference to patients, payers and healthcare systems around the world. In a healthcare marketplace where resources are increasingly scarce, our strategy continues to be all about meaningful innovation.

To accomplish this, last October we announced our global initiative to sharpen our commercial and R&D focus, redesign our operating model and reduce our cost base. We launched this multiyear initiative to transform Merck into a more competitive, more innovative Company and to build a platform for sustained future growth.

Now one year later I am pleased to report that this quarter's results reflect the steady progress we have made in each of these areas. We identified four areas of focus where we will compete to win and our investments are paying off.

In our diabetes business, we reallocated resources and invested significantly in Januvia and have now reported our second consecutive quarter of growth in the US and in international markets. This marks an important turnaround from where we were last year.

Our acute care business grew by double digits this quarter as we are now seeing the impact of our investments. These brands will continue to be key drivers of growth in emerging markets.

Our vaccines business remains a fundamental contributor to Merck despite a decline this quarter due to the timing of US public sector purchases. We are also looking forward to regulatory action for V503, our next-generation 9-valent vaccine for HPV. And in oncology, our integrated business unit has made strides to file and launch KEYTRUDA.

This quarter we received approval from the FDA for KEYTRUDA, the first anti-PD-1 therapy approved in the US for advanced melanoma. And I'm happy to report that we also recently received breakthrough designation from the FDA for KEYTRUDA as a potential therapy for advanced non-small cell lung cancer. We continue to study KEYTRUDA in more than 30 different tumor types and are encouraged by recent data presented at the European Society for Medical Oncology in five different cancers. Roger will talk more in a few minutes about the progress we continue to make with the KEYTRUDA program and Adam will discuss the recent US launch in advanced melanoma.

Also doing the third quarter, we received US approval from the FDA for BELSOMRA, our novel treatment for insomnia which we anticipate launching early next year.

In addition to increasing our focus on the key therapeutic areas that represent our best opportunities, we continued to rigorously prioritize our portfolio to ensure that all of our businesses have the potential to be market leaders and create value for shareholders. This approach led us to divest human health products and business areas that amounted to nearly $1 billion in annual revenue.

That focus also led to the recently completed sale of our $2 billion revenue Consumer Care business to Bayer. We then employed the proceeds of that sale to complete the acquisition of Idenix and to increase our return of cash to shareholders this year.

The same approach led us to a different conclusion with regard to our Animal Health business which we believe will continue to generate long-term value for Merck. Animal Health saw strong growth this quarter across all species. We look forward to additional innovation coming out of our Animal Health pipeline and remain committed to growing this business which is already a market leader in key segments of the global Animal Health market.

Let me now turn to the progress we have made in sharpening the focus of our R&D organization. Along with the strong progress we have made on our KEYTRUDA program, we continue to advance our work to develop a highly effective once-daily oral pan-genotypic regimen for the treatment of hepatitis C. As I mentioned earlier, we also completed the acquisition of Idenix Pharmaceuticals and its promising portfolio of hepatitis C candidates which complement our internal development efforts.

We will continue to focus on our highest potential growth opportunities while rigorously prioritizing our pipeline bolstering it with external assets while divesting our out-licensing programs and candidates that are better suited to create value elsewhere.

For example this quarter, we entered into an agreement to out-license MK-3222, our investigational treatment for chronic plaque psoriasis to Sun Pharma. All of these actions are in keeping with our intention to be the premier research intensive biopharmaceutical company.

Lastly, we have made significant progress in redesigning our operating model and reducing our cost base. You will recall that last October we targeted a net reduction in annual operating expenses of approximately $2.5 billion off our full-year 2012 expense levels by the end of 2015.

As a result of disciplined cost management, I'm pleased that we remain on track to achieve our target for 2015 and our overall savings goal by the end of 2015. These savings have enabled us to better target resources to keep priorities across the enterprise and to accomplish the goals I mentioned today.

At the same time this discipline allows us to return a high level of cash to shareholders through both a dividend and our stock repurchase program. Over the past 12 months, we have returned nearly $11.5 billion to our shareholders.

We are rebuilding Merck for sustainable future growth. We have sharpened our commercial focus and are launching products with the potential to make a significant difference to patients while providing value to payers, providers and healthcare systems.

We've focused and prioritized our R&D efforts so that we may continue to translate cutting-edge science into medicines and vaccines that have meaningful differentiated attributes and we have continued to aggressively manage our cost to ensure that our resources are focused on our most promising opportunities for growth. Taken together, these actions have created near and longer-term opportunities that will allow Merck to continue to drive value for both shareholders and society.

Now I would like to turn the call over to Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP, PRESIDENT GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken, and good morning, everyone. This morning I will provide you with an overview of global human health third-quarter results and also provide some commentary on the early days of the KEYTRUDA launch. My commentary will be on a constant currency basis.

Overall sales reached $9.1 billion reflecting the following, growth in core areas such as diabetes, immunology and acute-care which were offset by more than $150 million in product divestitures, hepatitis C market dynamics and patent expiries. First, I will review our core product areas and then I will provide an update on our regional performance and I will start with primary care.

The Januvia franchise reached more than $1.4 billion in sales and grew 5% in the quarter reflecting growth in the US and international markets. In the US, sales grew 6% on continued volume increases. We are encouraged by the growth trends we saw in the third quarter and the month of October. We are seeing positive results from our efforts to defend our 75% market share and to grow the DPP-4 class.

In our international markets, sales grew 4% driven by Europe and the emerging markets. Sales declined in Japan due to a 10% repricing that occurred in April and the overall competitive environment for DPP-4s. We are confident that we will deliver global sales growth for Januvia franchise in 2014.

Next in hospital and specialty care, sales of Isentress were approximately $410 million in the third quarter, a decline of 3%. Internationally our growth in Europe was balanced by the timing of tenders in the emerging markets. In the US, Isentress sales were impacted by customer buying patterns and the competitive dynamics in the HIV market.

Sales of our immunology products reached more than $770 million in the third quarter growing 9%. We are seeing continued strong uptake of Simponi across multiple indications and Simponi remains the fastest growing anti-TNF in markets where we promote. Remicade grew 3% reflecting growth in core markets and offset by biosimilar competition in some of the smaller EU markets.

In acute care, sales exceeded $600 million and grew by 17% this quarter. Growth was driven by continued uptake of Bridion in Japan, Europe and emerging markets and solid performances across our portfolio of antibiotics and antifungals. While growth rates may vary from quarter to quarter due to timing of tenders, we continue to expect this core area to be an important contributor to future growth.

Now turning to our vaccine business. In the third quarter, vaccine sales were approximately $1.7 billion, a decline of 6% primarily due to roughly $100 million of US public sector purchases of Gardasil and RotaTeq in the third quarter of last year that did not occur in the third quarter of this year.

Sales of Zostavax were approximately $180 million in the quarter declining 2% compared to last year. As we enter the flu season in the United States, we have initiated promotional efforts including a new direct to consumer campaign to educate consumers of the importance of talking to their physician and their pharmacist about shingles. We have broad access for Zostavax and we are working with customers to help them understand the reimbursement process.

Now turning to some geographic highlights in the third quarter. In the United States, sales declined 8% as growth in the Januvia franchise and Dulera was offset by lower vaccine sales, the loss of exclusivity of TEMODAR and declines in our HCV portfolio. In Europe sales fell 1%. We drove continued growth in diabetes, immunology and Isentress but sales were impacted by the divestiture of our ophthalmology products, continued declines in the HCV portfolio and a generic erosion for Nasonex.

Sales in Japan declined 14% primarily due to biannual price decreases and ophthalmology product divestitures.

Sales in the emerging markets grew 8%. China grew 33% in part due to timing of purchases. Demand in China remains strong for our broad portfolio of innovative and also established products. Other important emerging markets such as Turkey and Mexico also delivered solid growth in the quarter.

For the full year we continue to expect that the emerging markets will be good growth drivers.

Now I will spend a few moments speaking about the early days of the KEYTRUDA launch. First, let me say we are very excited to launch the first and the only anti-PD-1 therapy approved in the United States. We are still in the early days of launch but we have been moving rapidly to ensure the medicine is available to patients and feedback from our customers is very encouraging. Upon approval we said KEYTRUDA would be available within a week and we were taking orders and shipping in just a couple of days. Our colleagues in manufacturing worked tirelessly to ensure that patients would have access to this important medication as soon as possible.

On the commercial side, we reached the top ipilimumab prescribers in a matter of days from approval. We have now expanded our reach into community practitioners. We have reached more than 75% of the key physicians and we have made multiple calls into many of the high-volume prescribers.

Regarding access, most payers are covering the cost of KEYTRUDA for its current indication without restrictions. Additionally, we offer patient assistance for patients requiring reimbursement assistance. As we said at approval, we believe there are about 1200 patients in the US who are eligible for KEYTRUDA based upon our current label. Additionally, we expect a few hundred new patients to become eligible for treatment with KEYTRUDA each month.

Since approval in early September, we believe that approximately 900 patients are being treated with KEYTRUDA. Many of these patients were previously part of the expanded access program and are now in a process of moving from the EAP to commercial product.

Our global oncology business unit is passionately engaged on maximizing the potential for KEYTRUDA for appropriate patients. We are looking forward to sharing more launch details with you in the fourth quarter earnings call.

In summary, global human health is transitioning through a period of patent expiries and divestitures. Since late last year, we have consciously redirected our focus to core product areas to core markets and to new product launches. We drove growth in many of these core areas and we are successfully introducing KEYTRUDA to the US market for patients suffering from advanced melanoma.

We continue to prioritize our investments and we are intent on driving future growth and broadening our impact in global health.

Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Rob Davis.

ROB DAVIS, EVP AND CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Adam. Good morning, everyone. We have had solid results in the first nine months of the year. Our third-quarter results demonstrate that we continue to sharpen our focus as a Company and as Ken mentioned, our cost reduction program is on track. This morning I will provide additional color on our P&L and comment on our outlook for the rest of the year. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials.

Total Company revenues were $10.6 billion for the quarter, a decrease of 4% year-over-year with a 1% benefit from foreign exchange. This decrease reflects in part the loss of more than $400 million of sales in the prior year from divestitures and the now ended joint venture with AstraZeneca.

As Adam stated, our sales in the pharmaceutical business were driven by solid performance in our key brands which have benefited from continued resource allocation to our priority therapeutic areas like diabetes and acute care.

Animal Health revenues increased $83 million or 10% year-over-year excluding exchange. These results were driven by strong performance across the portfolio including significant growth in our companion animal and poultry businesses.

Consumer Care revenues decreased 9% excluding exchange. As a reminder, this is the last quarter in which we will record results from the consumer care business since the transaction with Bayer closed on October 1.

Moving now to expenses, gross margin was 74.3% in the quarter which represents a 30 basis point increase year-over-year. We continue to expect the 2014 full-year gross margin to be slightly lower than 2013's full-year ratio of 74.3%.

Marketing and administrative expenses were $148 million lower than the prior year driven by reductions in direct selling and promotion costs. We continue to focus our resources on key markets and core products while ensuring we appropriately invest in our product portfolio launches and in support of these efforts we would expect M&A expenses to be sequentially higher in the fourth quarter.

Research and development expenses were $1.5 billion in the quarter, $109 million lower than prior year. We expect R&D expense in the fourth quarter to be higher year-over-year as we invest in our portfolio.

Finally, regarding the tax rate, our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 26.5% in the quarter which was in line with our expectations. We continue to anticipate the tax rate for the full year to be between 24% and 26%.

In terms of our bottom-line performance, we earned $0.90 per share in the third quarter as compared to $0.92 per share in the prior-year.

Now our outlook for the rest of the year. On the topline, we are narrowing our revenue guidance to $42.4 billion to $42.8 billion at current exchange rates. This takes into account recent currency movements as well as a public sector vaccine purchase in the third quarter of last year that did not occur this year which Adam described earlier.

We are also narrowing our non-GAAP EPS range raising the bottom end of the range to $3.46 and lowering the upper end to $3.50 while maintaining the same midpoint. Our EPS range reflects our strong performance in the first nine months of the year and includes the absorption of roughly $0.06 to $0.09 of dilution from the consumer care divestiture and the Idenix acquisition.

On a GAAP basis, we expect to earn between $4.06 and $4.29 in 2014. Both M&A and R&D expense in 2014 are expected to be lower than 2013 and as I said earlier, we remain on track to achieve our target of a $2.5 billion reduction in expenses off of the 2012 base by the end of 2015.

Now touching briefly on capital allocation. By the end of the year, we will have deployed the balance of the after-tax proceeds from the Bayer transaction net of cash used for the Idenix acquisition for share repurchase. We continue to project our average diluted shares outstanding will be slightly lower than 2.95 billion shares for 2014.

We remain focused on our commitment to return cash to shareholders and as Ken said, we have returned over $11 billion to shareholders over the past 12 months in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

As we look at capital markets more broadly, we recently took advantage of favorable market conditions and restructured some of our debt through a tender offer and a EUR2.5 billion debt offering. We are pleased with the results of the transactions which created economic value for the Company and will benefit annual interest expense in 2015 and beyond.

In summary, the third quarter was another solid quarter for Merck. Since our announcement at this time last year, we have refocused our business and divested non-core assets with 2013 full-year sales of approximately $3 billion. In addition, we continue to trim our expense base putting us solidly on track to achieve our expense reductions by the end of 2015 while also investing in our promising new product launches and pipeline.

Now I will turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP, PRESIDENT MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Rob. The third quarter was an especially busy one for our regulatory affairs group with multiple product approvals in several important areas. In August, our novel first-in-class orexin receptor antagonist, BELSOMRA, was approved by the US FDA. BELSOMRA acts to improve sleep initiation and sleep maintenance in patients suffering from insomnia. As Ken mentioned, the BELSOMRA launch will begin early next year.

In September we gained approval of BELSOMRA in Japan where we also gained approval of Vaniprevir, a potent highly selective protease inhibitor for the treatment of genotype 1 hepatitis C virus infection. Also in September, we received approval for KEYTRUDA, our monoclonal antibody directed against PD-1 for the treatment of patients with advanced malignant melanoma refractory to currently available therapies. As I previously mentioned, our development program for KEYTRUDA has expanded to include more than two dozen studies around the world involving more than 6000 patients and addressing more than 30 different tumor types.

At the European Society for Medical Oncology meetings earlier this month, we presented data documenting the activity of KEYTRUDA in patients with gastric, bladder and head and neck cancers and also presented more comprehensive data describing the activity of KEYTRUDA in patients suffering from malignant melanoma or non-small cell lung cancer.

Today we announced that the US FDA has granted breakthrough designation to KEYTRUDA for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer in patients who have failed platinum based therapies and whose tumors do not bear EGF-receptor or [ALK] gene mutations. We are working closely with the FDA to define an optimal dataset that would permit registration of KEYTRUDA for this important indication.

Later in the year we expect to have a chance to describe our studies of KEYTRUDA in patients with so-called triple negative breast cancer at the San Antonio Breast Cancer conference and then some hematologic malignancies at the American Society of (inaudible) meeting.

Combination studies employing KEYTRUDA for the treatment of a variety of devastating malignancies are also underway. These studies employing conventional therapeutic modalities as well as novel targeted agents will benefit enormously from the broad understanding of KEYTRUDA monotherapy that we are developing.

Turning now to infectious diseases, we are looking forward to the upcoming American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases meeting next month. During the meeting we plan to present complete data from Phase 2 studies of our MK-5172 8742 doublet. I remind you that the FDA has granted breakthrough designation to these agents for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection. Indeed the Phase 3 registration program for MK-5172 8742 is now completely enrolled and we expect to see data from these studies in the first half of 2015.

At AASLD, we will also present early data from the C-SWIFT study which pairs the MK 5172 8742 doublet with the nucleoside polymerase inhibitor, Sofosbuvir. The goal of these studies which we announced five months ago at our business reveals is to advance the case for an all oral Ribavirin free genotype independent regimen that can be used in patients irrespective of comorbidities for example in patients with established cirrhosis, simultaneous infection with human immunodeficiency virus and/or renal insufficiency and that will achieve sustained virologic responses over a shorter course of therapy.

Because of the difficulties in ensuring patient adherence in the real world, shorter course of therapy is clearly desirable. Our triple therapy regimens have been enabled by our recently completed acquisition of Idenix Pharmaceuticals through which we gained access to a potent nucleoside polymerase inhibitor that we now call MK-3682. Data describing the effectiveness of MK-3682 monotherapy will also be presented at the AASLD meeting.

Beyond HCV, we continue to make very good progress enrolling other Phase 3 infectious disease therapeutics programs including once-daily Isentress and letermovir, a treatment for patients at risk from disseminated cytomegalovirus infection6.

During November we also expect to present the results of IMPROVE-IT, our study testing whether a cholesterol-lowering regimen of ezetimibe plus simvastatin versus simvastatin alone improves outcomes in patients at high risk for major cardiovascular events. The first patient was enrolled in this trial exactly nine years ago. With design and protocol review, it has been a decade since the question that the trial addresses was first posed.

In all, IMPROVE-IT enrolled 18,145 patients presenting with stabilized acute coronary syndromes. There have been more than 5000 composite events that will soon be reviewed. The MRO clinical team and I, along with the rest of Merck management remain blinded to the data and our statisticians have only a very short period to conduct analyses before the presentation in mid-November. My number one consideration regarding this study has been to ensure that we work closely with our academic colleagues to obtain a complete and robust dataset generated during the decade that it has taken to conduct IMPROVE-IT.

Given the size and complexity of this study, I expect that the IMPROVE-IT data will provide important insights into the appropriate care of patients at high risk for major coronary adverse events.

Returning briefly to regulatory affairs, we have now submitted our complete response to FDA questions regarding sugammadex, our parenteral agent for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade during anesthesia. Included in this response are new studies designed to examine hypersensitivity reactions that can occur with sugammadex administration as well as an updated review of our pharmaco vigilance experience with sugammadex which is marketed in more than 50 countries as Bridion.

Separately we have had a pre-NDA meeting with the FDA to discuss our odanacatib results. We have agreed together upon a plan to characterize more completely the adjudicated adverse event reporting in this study which will mean that our filing will be delayed until 2015. The data that we presented at the ASBMR meeting in September demonstrate that odanacatib could provide a meaningful therapeutic option to reduce the frequency of osteoporotic fractures in women at high risk for these events.

Finally as Ken mentioned, we continue to work closely with the FDA on the review of V503, our 9-valent human papilloma virus vaccine for the reduction of cervical malignancy. We expect that the FDA will complete its review before the end of the year. Joe?

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Roger. Jackie, I think we are getting ready to start the Q&A segment of the call. Just as a reminder if you can limit yourself to one or two questions that way we can get to as many callers as possible.

So, Jackie, I think we will turn it over to the first caller.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just two questions here. First, with the breakthrough status in lung for KEYTRUDA, can you just update us on anything about your filing strategy or at least key data points we should be watching for that could support a filing in lung?

And then second, just your thoughts on TECOS and risk of heart failure with Januvia. There is obviously been a lot of discussion around this point as of late and we would love just to get Merck's perspective on the risks associated with that study. Thanks very much.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, Chris, just with respect to the filing strategy, I think we certainly are pleased to have gained breakthrough designation for non-small cell lung cancer. As you know, we have a number of studies underway, large studies and we have the opportunity to look at those studies and we are working closely with the agency to develop an idea of registration strategy as I indicated. So we won't have any more to say about that than what I have said to this point.

With respect to TECOS, you know I think that we do expect that the final patient will be available, patient data will be available, last patient, last visit by the end of the year. This is of course a study that is being conducted led by academic institutions so we will be made aware of those data.

I think it is important to recognize that a Data Safety Monitoring Board has been following this study extremely carefully. The observations that have been made in other studies employing regimens to treat diabetes are well known to the Data Safety Monitoring Board. The last Data Safety Monitoring Board review was in December of last year. Given that the fact that the DSMB came back and said the study should be continued without change I think provides some reassurance with respect to the overall conduct of the study. It is a large study, will provide important answers to questions about the meaningfulness of intervention with sitagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Roger. Jackie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks for the question. So a couple of quick questions for Roger. Roger, can you talk to us a little bit about -- I don't see PD-L1 status highlighted for the breakthrough designation for KEYTRUDA but my understanding is that much of the data that was generated in non-small cell lung cancer was in the PD-L1 positive patient population. Can you just clarify for us if this indication is specific to the PD-L1 patient population or if it is not and it is actually for the broader patient population?

And then as we think about the next data points in the KEYNOTE-010 study, can you just update us on whether or not you have officially taken the look at the response rates which is sort of specified on clinicaltrials.gov relative to the 2 mg and 10 mg dose and if that look included a comparison to Taxotere? The reason I ask is if that could be utilized as supportive evidence for a potential filing? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: First of all, the breakthrough designation is not specific to PD-L1 positive patients and as you know, we have done quite a lot of work on trying to understand the meaningfulness of PD-L1 positivity what we have shown in a whole variety of settings is that patients whose tumors are judged PD-L1 negative or more precisely that fall into the PD-L1 staining less than 1% category nevertheless do demonstrate some responses and we and other groups that are studying this are still in the midst of trying to understand exactly how to correlate PD-L1 expression status with outcomes.

We know there is a relationship but exactly what the meaningfulness of that is I think remains to be elucidated.

With respect to the KEYNOTE-010 study, as I have indicated, we have a variety of different ways that we can look at these data in order to come up with an optimal registration strategy and that is something that through the close interaction that we have with the FDA and will have more particularly because of the breakthrough designation that we are going to be doing in order to come up with the best possible strategy.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thank you, Seamus. Jackie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hey, guys. Thank you for taking the question. Maybe just a follow-up on Seamus. The KEYNOTE-010 trial, Roger, what is the timeline for a data readout on that? Can you update us? I believe last time you spoke about it you had talked about late 2015. Could you just remind me if that is correct or incorrect data?

And then on hepatitis C if I may, Roger, last call you expressed a great -- what I interpreted to be a great period of optimism for the four-week regimen. Obviously the bar is very, very high given the Gilead data that is out there. I was wondering if you could update us on your expectations for the four-week data?

I know this is the third but this is just a yes or no. Just to be clear, the breakthrough designation was for -- if I am reading the press release right, was actually for second line and later lung. Is that correct?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Mark, so first of all, the breakthrough designation doesn't specify line of therapy. The breakthrough designation is for patients who have failed platinum-based therapies. And that is understandable of course because you get breakthrough designation for those circumstances under which there is a -- the anticipation of a meaningful intervention beyond what exists as standard care. So that is understandable I think.

With respect to the KEYNOTE-010 study again I think the timing remains as before. We continue to march forward with that study. We, as I said, have opportunities to examine that data at different times and one of the things that we will be doing is discussing that with the agency but we do expect to have data available by the end of next year for sure.

Then with respect to hepatitis C, I think the important thing to remember here is that what we proposed when we described the study back in May was that a triplet regimen would provide the opportunity to test whether it was possible to get sustained virologic responses that is eradication with very short regimens. We don't know what the nature of those regimens would be until we have tried to book-end those four genotype 1 and genotype 3 in the C-SWIFT study.

We have access now of course to 3682, our own nucleoside polymerase inhibitor and the things that we learn from our studies was Sofosbuvir can then be applied to our triplet studies with 3682 recognizing of course that no two polymerase inhibitors will behave in exactly the same way. But it basically provides the kind of guidance that we need in order to design effective Phase 3 studies. So we are looking forward to having the opportunity to review those data in detail.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thank you, Mark. Jackie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. Thank you for taking the questions. Roger, just a follow-up on those comments. Could you please remind us what the similarities and differences are from what you can tell from your new (inaudible)?

Adam, could you please give us a little bit more on the Gardasil performance and your outlook. It seemed to have been a little bit lower than expectations. Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So, Alex, you will have the opportunity to see Phase 1b data for MK-3682 at AASLD which will be interesting but of course it is very difficult to compare two different agents when they are not studied in a head-to-head context because of differences in patient population. I can't really speculate about that. We will have the opportunity to look at those kinds of data some time later but right now I think the important thing will be to look at the data, the Phase 1b data which I think you will find intriguing.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Alex, regarding Gardasil, let me provide some additional context. The sales in total were $590 million for the quarter. The US declined 7%. The US declines were mostly due to higher public sector purchases in 2013 that did not occur in 2014.

If you look at the cumulative 15- to 18-year-old penetration rates in the US, it is about 65% for females and about 50% for males. So there is still room to grow there. If you look at males, we continue to have good uptake and if you look at the private sector data it suggests that about 50% to 55% of first doses are now being administered to males.

If you look outside the US, the declines were due to Korea and also there is the end of the catch-up cohorts in several of the smaller markets. But overall we continue to be pleased with our market share, greater than 90% on a global basis and 99% in the US and we believe that there is still room for additional growth in the future.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Alex. Jackie, next caller.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. First question, just for Ken. I think you traditionally go through your planning process this time of year. I know you can't give or you are not ready to prepare to give guidance for 2015 but if you can just help us understand what some of the pushes and pulls are especially since 2015 you have indicated as a return to growth year going into that year. So that would be very helpful.

Then for Roger, if you can just characterize why it is so difficult to potentially to get to four weeks of therapy in the HCV population either four or eight weeks going forward that would be real helpful. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, John, for the question. So let me start by saying of course we are not giving 2015 guidance today. We will do that on our fourth-quarter call. But you are correct. We still expect to grow off our 2014 base and there are a number of factors that are going on outside right now. For example, there has been a change in currency rates which will have an impact on 2015. But also on an operational standpoint, we are looking forward to several launches. We are looking forward to the continued development of several key programs in our pipeline.

So from an operational standpoint, we are pleased with the progress that is being made in our pipeline and with the upcoming launches and obviously they will have to be looked at in the context of the overall headwinds that I think everyone is experiencing from things like currency. Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, John, the duration of treatment in infectious disease is always a difficult process to assess. I think first of all, there are aspects of molecular cell biology to consider that you have hepatocytes that are infected with HCV. They differ almost certainly one cell from another in terms of replication rate. Those that are replicating more slowly, it can be difficult to inhibit that process and there will be variability in terms of the degradation of the viral nucleic acid. So there is a lot of heterogeneity in the liver itself and then there is also variation in terms of the exposure to drug in individual liver cells. And beyond those sort of molecular cellular considerations, there is also the clinical context.

So we all recognize that despite the fact that we have more or less understood the nature of for example just to pick one, the nature of osteomyelitis, bacterial infection in bone, the length of treatment in the clinical setting is different in different parts of the world in different regions. We really don't have an established length of treatment that we can justify with good clinical data. And one can expect that it will be easier in HCV because we can measure viral burden much more readily. But still the clinical context will change depending upon for example, the degree of liver disease. So you can imagine where there is a lot of fibrosis and it is difficult to get drug penetration that that will make things more challenging.

All of which means that it may be hard to get to a single short course recommendation for all patients but instead patients will have to be stratified and maybe the stratification can be determined before treatment begins but most likely it will be in response to therapy.

These are the things that we have to learn now that we have these potent direct acting antivirals and our C-SWIFT studies I think will provide important data on this.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks, John. We will take the next caller.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you very much. Just a few questions. Roger, do you expect to receive priority review for your doublet hepatitis C therapy? I know you mentioned you have completed enrollment. Those trials should be completed by the end of -- sort of, I guess, middle of next year should we anticipate priority or review and timing of approval?

Second question on KEYTRUDA for lung. When is the earliest we can expect to see randomized data showing overall survival for KEYTRUDA?

Then thirdly, a question for you, Ken. We had read I guess rumors in the press about Merck considering selling its diversified product line or its legacy business. Can you give us an update in terms of how you are thinking about that? There have been a couple trades, as you know, of those businesses. I am just wondering how we should think about that for Merck. Thanks very much.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: The first question, of course we do have breakthrough designation for the doublet, and that doesn't by any means stipulate that the priority review would occur. I think it will be driven in large part by the strength of the data and assessment of meaningfulness. So we will get to that point when we have a chance to evaluate all of the Phase 3 data and get it submitted.

With respect to the randomized overall survival, again, we do have data coming from the KEYNOTE-010 study. There are other possible approaches to this, but certainly one would expect towards the end of next year, so we would have an early look at that. Again, a lot depends of course on the survival statistics for the population, but we will have data around that time, Jami.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Jami, for the question. Let me start with a broader focus on it, and that is this. We continue to prioritize and focus within our business. And as we communicated last October, that has required us to look across the entire business to determine which assets might have more value outside Merck versus inside the Company. As part of that, you have seen us take action and divest assets with approximately $3 billion in 2013 sales, including MCC and certain GHH products.

We will continue to evaluate opportunities as appropriate but specifically with respect to the diversified brands, we will also be considerate of the fact that all lot of these more mature assets also provide strong cash flow which enables us to continue to invest behind a meaningful innovation that is at the heart of our strategy.

So we will continue to look at opportunities as we move forward but we've got to balance the cash flow concerns as well as what we can do to monetize assets where appropriate.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks. Next caller.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: I would love to get your thoughts on the KEYNOTE-006 trial, pretty important in that it compares your anti-PD-1 head-to-head versus it be in first-line melanoma and I am wondering if you can update us on timing of read out and just more generally, your views of CTLA-4 antagonist and specifically your views of those products from a risk-benefit standpoint as part of combination therapy with PD-1s in two settings, melanoma and lung?

And the just a quick question on TECOS, is it possible you would topline those results by late 2014 and more generally how we handle data disclosure when you do have those results?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: For KEYNOTE-006 yes, we do expect that the data moving along and we will have comparative data versus sifalimumab and there is nothing particularly to update with respect to KEYNOTE-006. What you see on clinicaltrials.gov is a fair reflection of what we have and we are expecting to have data next year.

You ask the more general question of how we view PD-1 antagonism versus CTLA-4 ipilimumab in particular and there has been a lot of discussion of this as you know very well. There has not been an opportunity for us to compare KEYTRUDA vis-a-vis ipilimumab directly to this point although ultimately we will have those kinds of data.

I think what we have seen from the registration materials for these drugs is that at the current exposure levels, there is a substantial amount of systemic toxicity that is seen with CTLA-4 antagonists but time will really tell how that plays out particularly as there are dose adjustments and different approaches to combination therapy. So I don't think we can say that that is going to turn out to be an impossibility.

I think that the important thing in order to design combinations correctly, speaking not just for ipilimumab or CTLA-4 but speaking for the totality of combinations, is we have to have a firm understanding of how these molecules behave as monotherapy. And we have a very large monotherapy program for KEYTRUDA which involves more than 6000 patients as I have noted.

In addition, we have 17 combination studies currently underway which explore KEYTRUDA in a variety of other settings used with other drugs. So we will have the opportunity with this firm foundation of monotherapy results to understand the meaningfulness of combination therapies including combinations with CTLA-4 antagonists like ipilimumab.

Oh yes, TECOS, so the TECOS data as I have indicated, we should have last patient last visit, I remind you this is a study that is coordinated by an academic group. They are managing the study but we should have last patient last visit by the end of this year we hope and the data will be presented in 2015. That is all we know about it. I mentioned before the Data Safety and Monitoring committee that is overseeing the study as well but we don't know anything more than that.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thank you, Tim. Jackie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Ken, obviously the restructuring program takes your expenses down pretty significantly by the end of next year and I am just curious from there, are we now reset and as we start to see this topline from the new launches kick in, will we get the operating leverage that we would expect to see given that hepatitis C, oncology, these businesses that are not primary care kind of drive the topline? I am curious how much investment you need to make in those areas that would offset and that we wouldn't see that operating leverage?

And then Adam, if you could just talk about the emerging markets just a little bit more. Obviously China was really strong. What type of one-timer was there or was this kind of the catch-up for the year? And maybe you could talk about just some of the key drivers and what is going on in the emerging markets.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So if you look at the emerging markets, I have always said that growth can vary from quarter to quarter and timing of tenders becomes very significant in the emerging markets. China as you mentioned, had strong growth of 33%. A lot of that was in the acute care products of which timing played a part in and also the diversified brands continued to show good growth which was not related to timing.

I also mentioned that in Turkey and Mexico we had a very good quarter as well and that was driven by specialty products but also cardiovascular products.

KEN FRAZIER: On the overall issues with respect to our cost structure and how we are approaching it, we have been pretty aggressive in the first nine months to reduce costs and change our operating model and we are on track for the overall $2.5 billion in cost savings by 2015. And so we think that actually positions us well as we move into the future. Beyond that I can't say much because we are not providing guidance in today's call.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Jackie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning. Regarding anacetrapib, a question for Roger, would a positive protocol analysis for IMPROVE-IT at AHA make you any more confident about the anacetrapib trial given the beta about its proposed LDL mediated mechanism of action? And I know you are aware there are two presentations are scheduled.

Second, just following up on a KEYNOTE-010 trial, should I be thinking about an earlier interim analysis for your trial compared to Bristol's equivalent given you are selecting PD-L1 patients and it is obviously much larger and therefore where would that put the interim just on your modeling?

And then just an adjunct to that, do you still remain convinced that looking at PD-L1 expression on tumors rather than on the different cohorts of white blood cells is the right way to go to optimally select patients?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Andrew, three questions. First of all for anacetrapib, you know of course we don't, as I have been indicated, we have no idea what the results of the IMPROVE-IT are going to be. IMPROVE-IT tests the question as you know of whether or not one can by aggressively lowering LDL cholesterol levels in patients who already are optimally managed with simvastatin one can achieve a beneficial effect on cardiovascular events and the magnitude of that effect. Our studies with anacetrapib are different and because we have an anacetrapib, both the significant LDL cholesterol-lowering effect but also the HDL elevating effect, I'm not sure that I could read out much of anything from IMPROVE-IT to anacetrapib. I think anacetrapib is testing really quite a different question and we will just have to wait for the results of the REVEAL study.

With respect to the KEYNOTE timing, I can't speculate about how Bristol-Myers is pursuing their analyses versus our own. I have indicated when we expect our data to become available and we are going to examine those and make decisions based on that.

With respect to PD-L1, we have presented really quite a lot of data using our proprietary PD-L1 antibody to look at expression in tumors and what we have shown is that there is substantial association between PD-L1 expression in tumors which is just a different cut points and responses to KEYTRUDA and we have shown that in a number of different tumors and most recently we showed it in our presentations at ESMO.

The important thing to recognize as I say is that doesn't mean that there are no responses in those who are PD-L1 negative. It is simply an association. It is an association that is biologically plausible but we don't by any means feel that we are able to inventory all of the PD-L1 that is expressed in and around those cells that might be responsible for tumor killing and so no matter what, we only get a partial picture of it.

My feeling is that PD-L1 assessment in the tumor is much more likely to be revealing than PD-L1 assessment on circulating white blood cells as an example and certainly that is our experience.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay. Jackie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. Sorry if I missed this but on hepatitis C, how important do you view hitting four weeks from a commercial standpoint? It feels like physician feedback has not indicated a high level of importance as perhaps we would expect.

And then just a second one on IMPROVE-IT study. If the trial does not meet the primary endpoint, how do you think about the level of investment in the franchise going forward? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: This is Adam, Colin. With regard to hepatitis C, this is a very large market. In the US alone there is about 3.2 million people with chronic HCV of which only about 50% are diagnosed and only about 150,000, 200,000 are cured so the market is very large. I believe that four weeks would be helpful but as long as in the competitive dynamics there is equality in terms of the regimens, I think that you can be successful commercially under either circumstance.

At this point we are not commenting specifically on IMPROVE-IT. We continue to believe in the LDL cholesterol hypothesis and of course we prepare for all scenarios but there is nothing specific at it this moment.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Jackie, next caller.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT: Thanks. I have two. Adam, you mentioned that roughly 900 patients are being treated with KEYTRUDA. I was curious if you are seeing orders in shipments that are pretty consistent with that? Is it a pretty tight relationship between individual patient to manage shipments or is the system kind of gearing up for broader usage even though you can't talk about broader usage from Merck's standpoint?

Roger, how confident are you and the scientific community if you can speak for the community in the reproducibility of a particular patient's PD-L1 status? It sounds like investors kind of want things in neat boxes. I am not so sure it is actually going to play out that way but curious on your thoughts there on the testing and the status and whether that could flux within patients?

Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So first of all as I said before, we are pleased with the uptake in customer feedback that we have early in the launch but we are still very early in the launch. We are taking orders from KEYTRUDA since the first day of availability. Nearly all of the top 50 accounts have purchased since we launched the product and the majority have made repeat purchases. At this point in time we believe we have about 900 patients that are being treated with the product.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: You are absolutely right with respect to PD-L1 status and that the PD-L1 gene itself is responsive to a variety of different stimuli including cytokines so the inflammatory (inaudible) could easily influence how much PD-L1 is expressed and that could be different from one for example site of metastasis to another so there could be quite a bit of variability. That variability may underlie the challenges that people have experienced in trying to dissect the relationship between PD-L1 expression and responsiveness to anti-PD-1 therapy.

Nevertheless the fact is there is such an association so summing over everything, there still is a general relationship between PD-L1 expression in tumors and responsiveness that has been seen many times.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Jackie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Guggenheim Partners.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM PARTNERS: Thanks very much. Two brief questions, Roger, we have talked about 010 in platinum failures. The question is what is the difference between 024 and 042 in the Phase 3 setting at least in first-line advanced non-small cell lung?

The second question, Adam, the top 50 accounts having ordered KEYTRUDA, can you provide any additional color on the percentage of patients who were already on therapy in the access program and have moved onto if you will as a paying customer and those that are actually new to therapy? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So right now as we said, we believe there is about 900 patients that are being treated with the product. Many of those, many of those we believe are coming from the EAP program.

If you look at the top 50 accounts, it is not easy to tell where the purchases go, to which patients exactly so you can't comment on that. But I think the bottom line is we are on track for all in 60 days to move from the EAP program into the commercial area. So we are working hard on that and we are on track for that.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: If you look at 024 and 042, you will see that we are talking about similar kinds of studies but they differ in size and they differ in primary outcomes and that is kind of understandable and not atypical for registration strategies in these sorts of settings.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Next caller.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes. Thanks very much. I have a couple of questions. First, with respect to your hepatitis C program, could you talk about your development vision for the Idenix nuke including the timing for Phase 3?

Second, I have a little bit of a lengthy question on KEYTRUDA and this relates to the KEYNOTE-006 trial. So the approved dose of KEYTRUDA is 2 mg per kilogram every three weeks and it costs $150,000 a year but in KEYNOTE-006, the KEYTRUDA dosing is 10 mg per kilogram every two or three weeks which would cost $1.15 million or $750,000 a year respectively.

So since KEYNOTE-006 is supposed to read out early next year and assuming that it shows that KEYTRUDA is superior to Yervoy in first-line melanoma, it should get Compendia listed at 10 mg per kilogram but how should we think about actual use in the real world and how should we think about pricing for that compound? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, so I guess the question is first of all with respect to MK-3682 and the timing, I should note that for MK-3682 and again the data will be -- Phase 1b data will be at AASLD, we do have an IND now in the United States for that molecule and Phase 2 studies will begin shortly. And thereafter based on the results of that, we will begin to decide how best to conduct registration strategies so that is more or less how we are thinking about it, fairly conventional.

And then with respect to KEYNOTE-006, as you know, we began our studies of pembrolizumab in a variety of different doses, at 2 mg Q3, at 10 mg Q2, at 10 mg Q3 and what we have learned in the course of those studies is that the dose response curve is relatively flat and 2 mg Q3 was selected as the dose to go forward in melanoma. We are also working on a fixed dose at 200 mg Q3 which will give the equivalent exposure of 2 mg Q3 for most patients and doesn't require the weight calculation.

My expectation is that because we will have a large amount of data from all of these different settings we will be able to make the appropriate analysis. I can't speak of course to how Compendia will look at this and any other aspect of the commercialization process.

ADAM SCHECHTER: What I would say is we have been very active to ensure the patients that are in need of KEYTRUDA have access to it and claims are being paid for KEYTRUDA consistent with the indication without restrictions and we have got our clinical presentations with all of our top 30 targeted health plans either occurred or are going to occur.

So as we look at the future of course we continue to work to maintain access as appropriate.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Jackie, I think we have time for just two more callers.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking the question. A couple here. One on Januvia and Janumet. From what we understand I think that product starting in 2015 is not going to be available to people with United Healthcare commercial plans. Can you just confirm if that is indeed the case if there has been a change there? And while I assume that losing one plan is not likely that material to you guys, are there any other changes to the access of that franchise that we should be aware of as we start thinking about 2015?

And then the second question just on the PD-1 side of things, any update you can provide on the status of the lawsuit that you guys filed against Bristol in Europe and also the one that Bristol has filed in the US against you guys once you get the approval for KEYTRUDA. Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Januvia continues to have good access in 2014 and based upon preliminary reviews in 2015, we expect to continue to have good access. Januvia is still on formulary for United Part D plan in 2015 and continues to have preferred access. The contract with United was signed recently but since it had not been signed when United filed their 2015 formulary with CMS, the United Part D website and CMS required notice to insurees that did not list Januvia as on formulary but I just want to repeat that it still is on formulary for Part D in 2015.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks for the other question. We are confident with respect to PD-1 and the litigation associate with the patents. We are confident we will be able to market KEYTRUDA to any country in which it is approved. Litigation appeals, they are a multiyear process so you won't hear anything from us for a while. If there are any updates, we will provide those in the Q.

Jackie, I think we have time for the last caller.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks for taking my question. I wondered if you could just give us a bit more color on what the biosimilar situation in Europe looks like, what you are really learning from the early stages of this and what you are going to take forward as access to biosimilars becomes more prevalent in Europe? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So if you look at Remicade and Simponi as I said, we had about $775 million of sales, about 9% growth. We continue to have growth of Remicade of about 3%. That was driven by the core EU markets driven by Gastro indications but there was some offset due to biosimilar competition in the smaller markets.

If you look at the biosimilars specifically, there has been relatively limited uptake of either biosimilar product or acceptance on tenders in formularies and what we have seen so far is where there has been movement of the biosimilars, it has limited to new patients only. However, we have seen increased pricing pressures that are required in order for us to compete with the biosimilars. So we expect the pressure to continue in the small markets this year and then we expect there to be some pricing pressure and new patients in the core EU markets after February 2015 loss of exclusivity.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thank you, Adam. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: So just in closing, we reported another solid quarter of Company performance. As I mentioned earlier, we are making great progress on our strategic initiatives we announced last year. We are now seeing the benefit of investing in our core therapeutic areas like we have seen in diabetes. We have made significant advancements in some of our most important research programs including the launch of KEYTRUDA and receiving breakthrough therapeutic designation in non-small cell lung cancer and as Roger mentioned this morning, we are making steady progress in hepatitis C as our registration study for the doublet is now fully enrolled.

We also continue to focus on improving our operating model. Over the past year we have seen our operating expenses decline significantly. We will remain on track to achieve our $2.5 billion of cost savings.

Our prioritization has also led us to divesting $3 billion in sales through the MCC transaction with Bayer and other divestitures in human health. We have use those proceeds to fund the Idenix acquisition and repurchase shares this year. Over the past 12 months, we have returned more than $11 billion via the dividend and share repurchase program. We remain strongly committed to returning cash to our shareholders.

So again, thank you for joining us, hanging in with us for a little bit of a lengthy call and we look forward to updating you again on our fourth-quarter earnings call.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gdias : Diabetes | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141029eaar00106
  


 HD
 Q2  2014  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,496 words
   PD
29 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's second-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Joseph Romanelli, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
JOSEPH ROMANELLI, VP IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Jackie, and good morning, everyone. We would also like to say good afternoon and good evening to everyone listening outside the United States. Welcome to Merck's second-quarter 2014 conference call.

Before I turn the call over to Ken, I want to point out just a couple of items. First of all, there are a number of items in the GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs, and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded those items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables, and you can see them in our press release in Table 2. This will give you a better sense of our underlying performance.

There are three tables in the press release. The first table provides the GAAP results; table number 2 reconciles our GAAP P&L to the non-GAAP results for the first quarter; and Table 3 provide sales performance for the Company's business units and our products, both on a reported basis and excluding exchange. During the call, we will be referring to Table 2 when we discuss the P&L and Table 3 when we talk about revenue performance.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon Merck's current belief and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

The Company's SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2013 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement. Our SEC filings can be found on the website at Merck.com, and you can also find our earnings release and all the tables there as well.

Now, this morning I am joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and CEO; Rob Davis, our CFO; Adam Schechter, head of Global Human Health; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, head of Merck Research Labs. So with that I would like to introduce Ken Frazier. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Joe. Good morning, everyone, and thank you all for joining the call today. Our performance this quarter reflects our continuing progress towards transforming Merck and building a platform for future growth and innovation.

Our underlying portfolio is growing, and we are particularly pleased to have reported solid growth in our top five brands. We have now delivered a strong first half of the year, which we believe positions us well to deliver on our full-year non-GAAP EPS guidance.

I am excited that as we move into the second half of the year we are preparing for a series of promising product launches and data presentations. These represent near- and longer-term opportunities that will allow Merck to drive value for shareholders and society.

They include pembrolizumab, our anti-PD-1 antibody; new treatment options for hepatitis C; Zontivity for post MI or PAD patients; sugammadex for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade; suvorexant for the treatment of insomnia; odanacatib for the treatment of osteoporosis; and V503, our nine-valent HPV vaccine.

Importantly, each of these candidates underscores Merck's commitment to translating cutting-edge science into medicines and vaccines that have meaningful, differentiated attributes. Additionally, they represent the kind of innovation that, while making a potentially significant difference for patients, also can provide strong value to payers, providers, and healthcare systems.

This quarter we further sharpened our commercial and R&D focus by continuing to rigorously prioritize our portfolio to ensure that all of our businesses have the potential to be market leaders and create value for shareholders. This approach led us to enter into an agreement with Bayer for the sale of our Consumer Care business for $14.2 billion and, concomitantly, to establish a worldwide collaboration with Bayer to develop and market Adempas, a novel sGC modulator for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, as well as other novel compounds in development.

We also entered into an agreement to acquire Idenix Pharmaceuticals and its promising portfolio of hepatitis C candidates. These candidates will both complement our hepatitis C therapies currently in development and advance our work to develop a highly effective, once-daily, oral pangenotypic regimen that could benefit millions of patients around the world. We remain on track to complete this acquisition in the third quarter.

These transactions are in keeping with our intention to be the premier research-intensive biopharmaceutical company, by focusing on our high-potential growth opportunities and augmenting our pipeline with external assets that can create value and continue to provide an industry-leading return of capital to our shareholders.

In closing, as I said last quarter, this is an exciting time at Merck as we prepare to commercialize the next wave of innovation coming out of our labs. This innovation represents a suite of near- and longer-term opportunities that will make a meaningful difference to patients, healthcare providers, and payers, while also creating value for our shareholders.

And now I would like to turn the call over to Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP, PRESIDENT GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken. Good morning, everyone. This morning I will provide you with an overview of Global Human Health's second-quarter results. My commentary will be on a constant-currency basis.

Overall, sales reached $9.1 billion. Immunology, diabetes, and vaccines continue to be areas of growth. However, these areas were offset by the continued impact of loss of exclusivity of several brands; product divestitures that we announced previously; and the biennial price declines in Japan. As we move through 2014, I look forward to speaking with you about our core business and also multiple launches that we are planning for, including pembrolizumab, suvorexant, and others.

I would now like to discuss results from some of our core product areas, and I will start with the Januvia franchise. The Januvia franchise had sales that reached $1.6 billion and grew 2% in the quarter.

Growth was driven by our international markets, which represent about half of our total sales. These markets grew 4% as a result of strong growth in Europe and the emerging markets.

In the United States, sales declined 1%, but volume growth continues to improve. In fact, volume growth was 3% in the latest rolling 4-week average.

We are encouraged by the volume trends that we are seeing. We expect that volume growth will continue in the US over the remainder of 2014 as we defend our market share of nearly 75% and we work to grow the DPP-4 class. Importantly, we continue to expect global sales growth for the Januvia franchise in 2014.

Moving to Isentress. Sales grew 10%, driven by solid performance in Europe and emerging markets and some benefit from buying patterns in the US. Growth outside of the US remains an important driver for the brand to help offset slight volume declines we are seeing in the US. The STARTMRK study in treatment-naive patients provides long-term head-to-head data in our label that will help support the continued growth of Isentress.

Next, our immunology business consisting of Remicade and Simponi saw another strong quarter of growth. Sales grew 15%, driven by continued strong uptake of Simponi and steady growth of Remicade despite biosimilar entry in some of the smaller EU markets.

Now moving to our vaccine business. In the second quarter, vaccine sales grew 3%. Gardasil growth of 9% and Zostavax growth of 10% were partially offset by declines in Varivax and Pneumovax. Gardasil increases were driven by the US and emerging markets. Sales growth of 16% in the US reflects higher public-sector purchases of about $30 million.

Zostavax growth came from our ex-US launches. In the US, we remain focused on educating our customers on the reimbursement process, and we are also initiating promotional efforts ahead of the fall flu vaccine season. Zostavax is now available in over 25 markets, and we expect additional launches in 2014.

Now I will briefly outline sales performance on a regional level, beginning with the United States. In the US, sales growth of the Zetia franchise, Dulera, and Gardasil was more than offset by the loss of exclusivity of Temodar, HCV declines, and product divestitures.

And Europe, we drove strong growth in immunology, diabetes, and Isentress. We also saw continued generic erosion for Nasonex as well as declines for HCV products.

Japan sales declines 6% primarily due to the biennial price decreases and the negative impact of suspended promotion for HPV vaccines.

Sales in emerging markets grew 2%, on good growth from vaccines, acute care products, and Isentress. China grew 6%; and growth and other important emerging markets such as Brazil and Turkey were partially offset by continuing pressure in Mexico, Egypt, and Eastern Europe. For the full year, we continue to expect that the emerging markets will be good growth drivers for us.

Moving to the future, we are looking forward to important launches and we are investing in prelaunch preparations. First, on suvorexant, we are anticipating regulatory action in the middle of August. Following that, we need to await the DEA decision on product scheduling.

We anticipate launching late this year or early in 2015. We are very excited about the potential launch of suvorexant.

Second and importantly, we are ready to launch pembrolizumab as we continue to expect regulatory action by October 28 this year. We are resourcing the launch with a focus on critical capabilities that will help address the needs of oncologists, of payers, and of cancer patients.

We have built our capabilities with an emphasis on assembling the best internal and external talent. Upon approval, we will rapidly engage oncologists to ensure they are prepared to appropriately prescribe this potentially first-in-class breakthrough product.

We will partner with payers to ensure that pembro is readily accessible for patients. And we will have support for patients, with reimbursement assistance.

The anticipated approval of pembro would mark the first approval from our exciting clinical development immuno-oncology program. More importantly, this will be a tremendous opportunity for Merck to help make a difference for patients and their families. Let me be clear: we are ready to launch pembro.

In summary, Global Human Health drove growth of key franchises including diabetes, immunology, and vaccines. We are prioritizing our investments and we are intent on driving future growth with our core brands, with our core markets, and with our exciting new launch opportunities.

Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Rob Davis.

ROB DAVIS, EVP, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Adam; it's a pleasure to be here this morning for my first earnings call as CFO. We have had a strong first half of 2014, and our second-quarter results demonstrate that we continue to sharpen our focus as a Company.

This morning I will provide additional color on our P&L and comment on our outlook for the rest of the year. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials.

On this basis, we earned $0.85 per share in the second quarter as compared to $0.84 per share in the prior quarter. Our EPS was driven by growth in key brands and effective cost management, which was partially offset by patent expiries and divestitures.

Turning to the top line, total revenue in the quarter decreased 1% year-over-year. Foreign exchange did not have a material impact on the revenues this quarter.

As Adam stated, our sales in the Pharmaceutical business were driven by solid growth in key brands. Animal Health revenues increased $27 million, 3% year-over-year excluding exchange, or 9% if we also exclude the impact of the Zilmax suspension. Our Animal Health results were driven by the strong performance of Bravecto, our newly launched oral flea and tick treatment for dogs in the US and Europe, and the strong growth from our poultry business.

Consumer Care revenues increased $100 million, or 20% excluding exchange. Sales in the quarter were driven by sales of Claritin and Coppertone.

As you may recall we had a one-time unfavorable adjustment to sales in the second quarter of 2013, which represents a single but significant percentage of the positive year-over-year comparison this quarter. Excluding those actions, Consumer Care global sales grew 4%, including 1 percentage point of negative impact due to foreign exchange. As a reminder, we expect the divestiture of the Consumer Care business to close this year.

Regarding the joint venture with AstraZeneca, revenue from the JV was $316 million and benefited from the timing of purchases in the quarter. As expected, Astra exercised its option to end our partnership on June 30. As a result, we will no longer record supply sales or equity income from the JV in the second half of this year.

Moving to expenses, gross margin was 72.6% in the quarter, representing a decline of about 300 basis points from last year. The decline was the result of product mix and inventory write-offs, primarily for Victrelis. We continue to expect the 2014 full-year gross margin to be slightly lower than 2013's full-year ratio of 74.3%.

Marketing and administrative expenses were $208 million lower than prior year, driven by reductions in promotion and direct selling costs. While we continue to focus our resources on key markets and core products, we were also preparing for additional product launches later this year. We will invest in these launches to maximize our opportunity for growth. We are also making resource allocation decisions so that we remain on track for full-year marketing and administrative reductions versus 2013.

Likewise, research and development expenses were $232 million lower year-over-year as a result of our continued prioritization and rationalization efforts. As we said last quarter, our R&D expense for our current portfolio will increase in the back half of the year.

In addition, we will also invest in the HCV assets we will acquire from Idenix and the research collaboration with Bayer. As a result, we now expect our R&D expense in the second half of 2014 to be a few hundred million dollars higher than the second half of 2013. Overall, we continue to expect our full-year R&D expense to be below 2013 levels.

Finally, on our tax rate, our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 24.2% in the quarter, which was in line with our expectations for the year. We continue to anticipate the tax rate for the full year to be between 24% and 26%.

Now our outlook for the rest of the year. On the top line, we are reconfirming our revenue guidance of $42.4 billion to $43.2 billion at current exchange rates.

We are narrowing our non-GAAP EPS guidance to a range of $3.43 to $3.53, which excludes the potential impact from a devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. This range reflects our strong performance in the first half of the year and includes roughly $0.06 to $0.09 of dilution from the divestiture of the Consumer Care business, the resulting research collaboration with Bayer, and the acquisition of Idenix and its HCV assets.

On a GAAP basis, we now expect to earn between $4.44 and $4.77 in 2014. As noted earlier, both marketing and administrative and R&D expenses in 2014 are expected to be lower than 2013. Due to the strength of the results in the first 6 month of the year and the additional developmental costs associated with the Bayer collaboration and Idenix portfolio, we now expect EPS in the second half of the year to be generally consistent with the first half of 2014.

With that, I would like to provide a quick update on capital allocation. While we continue to focus on improving our productivity and transforming our business model, we also remain committed and focused to return cash to shareholders.

As we said during the investor briefing in May, we're going to use the proceeds from the Bayer transaction to augment our pipeline with business development activity and return capital to shareholders. We have delivered on that commitment by agreeing to acquire Idenix for $3.85 billion, and we expect to deploy a significant amount of the after-tax proceeds to repurchase shares this year. We now project our average diluted shares to be slightly lower than the 2.95 billion share count we gave last year for 2014, depending on the timing of the purchases.

In summary, we feel good about the results and are reassured by the strength of the performance in the first half of the year. That strength is allowing us to invest in the business in the second half of 2014, meet our guidance targets despite the dilution of two transactions, and return cash to shareholders.

Now I will turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP, PRESIDENT MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Rob. During the second quarter, our R&D organization made substantial progress in advancing important new therapies. In April, our regulatory affairs group obtained FDA approval for Zontivity, the first thrombin receptor antagonist ever introduced into clinical practice.

Zontivity has been shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death, heart attack, stroke, and the need for procedures to restore blood flow to the heart in patients with a history of heart attack or of peripheral arterial disease who are already receiving optimal therapy. Because of the increased bleeding risk associated with this antiplatelet therapy, Zontivity should not be used in patients with a history of stroke or transient ischemic attacks.

We are excited about the potential for Zontivity to improve outcomes in patients at high risk for heart attacks and are working assiduously to make certain that heart specialists are aware of the clinical data supporting the use of Zontivity. In Europe, we are engaged with the Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency, who are evaluating our file for this product.

Meanwhile, during the second quarter we advanced the regulatory review of suvorexant, our orexin antagonist for improving sleep in patients with insomnia. You will recall that we submitted our response to the FDA's Complete Response Letter in February; we have worked closely with the agency and are now discussing features of product labeling. The PDUFA date for action by the FDA with respect to suvorexant is August 14.

We are also making progress in supporting the regulatory review of V503, our nine-valent human papillomavirus vaccine, designed to extend protection from the risk of cervical cancer across approximately 90% of vaccine genotypes associated with this disease. We are eager to bring this important new vaccine to world markets.

During the second quarter, the FDA accepted our filing for pembrolizumab in the treatment of patients with advanced melanoma refractory to all available therapies. FDA review of our filing, including a number of clinical and manufacturing inspections, is proceeding in advance of the PDUFA date of October 28.

During the second quarter, we also filed for approval of pembrolizumab in the treatment of advanced melanoma in Europe. This file has been accepted for review by the European Medicines Agency.

At the American Society for Clinical Oncology meeting in June, we summarized the very large body of information that we are assembling regarding the use of pembrolizumab both by itself and in combination with other agents in the treatment of malignant disease. Currently, we have pivotal studies underway or in planning for the treatment of malignant melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer, head and neck cancer, and bladder cancer; and we have early evidence of activity in several other important tumor types. In all, we are testing pembrolizumab in the treatment of more than 30 different malignancies.

Our clinical development organization, working closely with the bioprocess groups involved in supplying clinical material, has managed to maintain a very challenging schedule of patient enrollment with the goal of determining the full spectrum of activity of pembrolizumab. We have submitted numerous abstracts for the European Society for Medical Oncology meetings in September and will hope to share quite a bit of new data with you regarding pembrolizumab at that time.

At our May 6 business review in Boston we described our plans for the development of novel treatment paradigms for patients infected with hepatitis C virus. We have made excellent progress in advancing our registration-enabling program using a fixed-dose combination of MK-5172 and MK-8742 in treatment-naive and previously treated patients, and those with and without evidence of significant liver injury, and in more complicated patients with renal insufficiency or who have simultaneous infections with human immunodeficiency virus.

Our goal, as I have made plain, is to advance an effective therapy for all patients, irrespective of the genotype of their HCV infection and regardless of comorbidities, and to achieve a very high rate of sustained virologic response following less than 6 weeks of active therapy. To this end, we have initiated studies combining the MK-5172/8742 doublet regimen with Gilead's sofosbuvir.

We will use information from this triplet regimen to advance our internal programs that employ a uridine analog HCV polymerase inhibitor to complement MK-5172/8742 therapy. Of course, this is the reason that we pursued the acquisition of Idenix, to gain access to their advanced nucleoside-based polymerase inhibitors. We are looking forward to working with our new colleagues at Idenix, and we are very encouraged by what we have seen to this point.

We believe quite strongly that these new regimens, which are advancing quickly in the clinic, will form the basis of rapid genotype-independent definitive therapy for millions of patients at risk for liver failure as a result of HCV infection.

We also announced in May that through the sale of our consumer products division to Bayer we will gain access to a set of soluble guanylate cyclase activators, including Adempas. We are working closely with our colleagues at Bayer as we assume shared responsibility for the development of Adempas, which is approved in the United States for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in two different settings and which is being studied as a possible treatment for pulmonary hypertension in a third setting in patients with idiopathic interstitial pneumonia.

Meanwhile, we continue to actively prosecute our C. difficile toxin antibody program; our novel non-nucleosidal reverse transcriptase inhibitor, doravirine, for HIV therapy; letermovir for the prophylaxis and treatment of cytomegalovirus infection in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation; our beta secretase program in patients suffering from or at risk for Alzheimer's disease; our development of long-acting DPP-4 inhibitors for diabetes; and our late-stage program testing the ability of anacetrapib to reduce cardiovascular risk in patients on optimal cholesterol-lowering therapy, among many, many others.

Despite this deep clinical agenda we have managed to reduce expenses versus 2013, largely through operating efficiencies. As Rob noted, we do expect that clinical trial expenses will increase in the second half of the year, principally as a result of the large set of late-stage opportunities in cancer treatment that we see for pembrolizumab. Nevertheless, through rigorous portfolio prioritization, we will ensure a highly disciplined approach to expense management. Joe?

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thank you, Roger, and thank you, Jackie. Before we open up the line to Q&A, just a quick reminder: to get through as many callers as possible, please limit your questions to one or two. That way we can try to make sure we cover everyone. Okay, Jackie, why don't we go ahead and take the first caller?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: First question, Roger. Just possible to maybe articulate -- obviously there is an upcoming oncology meeting, ESMO, and then AASLD -- what we might be looking to see coming out of those conferences in terms of additional data that you could be presenting?

Then a question for Ken and Rob. Certainly been some speculation in the press about divestiture of additional non-core late-lifecycle pharma-type assets. Can you walk us through where you might be within that process and, upon a sale of such assets, what you might be using the proceeds for? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: John, yes, with respect to ESMO, we have submitted a substantial number of abstracts; but so far we don't know exactly which ones of those will be accepted. Suffice it to say that we will have the opportunity to present a substantial amount of new data with respect to pembrolizumab.

And similarly for AASLD, where, as you know our C-SWIFT regimen that I mentioned, which is a triplet regimen that will give us a sense of where we stand with respect to a short-duration active therapy, we won't have all the data by then, but we should have some available data. And we will hope to have the opportunity to describe that to you at that time.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Roger. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: John, thanks for the question. So with respect to what has been reported in the press, we obviously can't comment on those rumors. But what I can say, that as a broader question about focus of prioritization, we communicated last October that we are going to look across the entire business to determine if assets might have more value outside the Company or as part of our business.

So, for example, with these diversified brands, as they are known inside Merck, those products can be very important to our business in the emerging markets. We have to look at whether or not selling all or part of those brands is going to make sense to our business over the longer term.

You have already seen us take action with respect to MCC, Saphris, ophthalmology, and some select diversified brands as part of our Aspen deal. All I can say is that we will continue to evaluate opportunities as appropriate going forward.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, John. Jackie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Morning. Thanks for taking the questions. On hep C, can you outline the development plan for the Idenix nuc and when we should next see data on this asset? Then perhaps, while we are on the nuc, can you remind us of what gave you comfort to acquire this, in light of the turbulent history with that class?

Then on M&A, can you just talk about your appetite for large-scale M&A, particularly in the context of a tax inversion? Thank you.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Roger, why don't you talk about (multiple speakers)?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, Colin, thanks for the question. With respect to hep C, now as you mentioned there is a turbulent history that you described for nucleoside polymerase inhibitors in hep C. What we have learned over time is that certain structural features of those give one more comfort with respect to their safety characteristics; and the Idenix nucleoside inhibitor has those characteristics, as we learned.

In addition, we had exposure to nearly 100 subjects, some of it for a reasonable period of time, without evidence of significant hepatotoxicity. So that gives us some confidence going forward.

We of course also know, as they presented the data, that there is a very substantial reduction in viral burden across numerous genotypes using their nucleoside polymerase inhibitor. So in many respects it is sort of the ideal nucleoside polymerase inhibitor.

We will be studying that in combination with ours just as soon as we can gain access to the molecule. But of course, we don't have access to it until the time that the deal actually closes. So that is the general plan; and we will hope, of course, to be able to present quite a bit of data at AASLD, as I mentioned.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Related to the other question on M&A, I would say that Merck is not interested in pursuing a business development deal either solely or primarily for the specific purpose of tax inversion. Obviously, every company takes a very different path to drive long-term shareholder value.

As we have said before, our goal is to be the premier research-driven biopharmaceutical company. Our strategy is built on innovation in the pipeline. So from our perspective, that is what we are focusing on: delivering novel programs like our anti-PD-1 program and our HCV program.

We believe this is the best path for Merck to drive sustainable growth and shareholder value over the long term. So we are not focusing on a major consolidation of the industry type transaction as a preferred strategy. We continue to look for value-adding bolt-on opportunities to augment our pipeline, like Idenix.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Colin. And, Jackie, our next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking the question. First, just on the DPP-4 side, it's interesting you mentioned you expect, I think you said, global growth in 2014 for the franchise, which, compared to where we were a few months or a year or so ago, would not really be news; but interesting.

Just thinking about how you would forecast that going forward, is that something again where we might see just flat or lowish single-digit growth like we saw this quarter? Or do you see any of the investments you and some of your competitors are making in regenerating the growth of that franchise to make more of an impact as we go forward here?

Then the second question I just have, related to one of the other questions, from the future data later this year. Just curious about ASH and also the San Antonio breast convention. Do you think you guys will have anything on immuno-oncology assets in those, the hematology side or on breast cancer, later in the year? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, so why don't I -- this is Adam. Vamil, thanks for your question on the DPP-4 class. Let me give you some additional context on the Januvia franchise and where we stand.

As I said before, our second-quarter sales were $1.6 billion, which was 2% growth, and that was from 4% growth outside the US and minus 1% growth in the US. So let me focus on the US first.

We have always said that what is most important is to watch TRx volume. There is going to be wholesaler buying pattern changes that occur over a year. If you look at the second quarter this year we had a tough comparison to second quarter last year which, as you may recall, we grew 9% over the prior year. So that is why I always focus on the underlying volume.

The good news is that the TRx trends right now are more positive than they have been. We have 3% growth over the rolling 4 weeks; and if you look at the past 2 weeks we actually had 4% growth versus the same week prior year. So we expect the growth in TRXes to continue as we go through the second half of the year, and that is why we are cautiously optimistic on the volume increases that we are seeing in the United States.

In the international markets we had good volume growth in Europe, Canada, emerging markets; and we maintain our strong market leadership position. Those were partially offset a bit by the April 1 price reductions that occurred in Japan.

When you look at the strength of our franchise, we have maintained about a 65% share globally and about a 75% share of the class in the US. So it really is about getting patients to be considered for DPP-4s prior to sulfonylureas, and that is where we think we are beginning to see some progress in the US and remain cautiously optimistic as we expect growth for the second half of the year.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: With respect to presentations at ASH and the San Antonio Breast Cancer Conference, we have studies in both hematologic malignancies and in breast cancer, and we do expect that we will have an opportunity to present some of those results. Again, the pembrolizumab program is far-ranging.

So we are looking forward to those as well. Of course, they occur somewhat later in the year or beginning of next year.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Vamil. Jackie, can we turn it over to the next caller, please?

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks very much. My question is, could you just update us, please, on the expected readout timing, so when investors should expect to see a press release on the results of three cardiovascular trials, IMPROVE-IT, TECOS, and the anacetrapib Phase III? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, Dave, it's Roger. With respect to IMPROVE-IT, we are expecting that the last patient visit will occur sometime in September. Of course, this is a very large study -- more than 18,000 patients -- a study conducted over nearly a decade; so it will take a long time to pull together all the data, clean the files, have all the queries go out to the sites, etc.

But over a period of some weeks thereafter, that will get done. The data base lock will take place, and then we will analyze it. And then, of course, top-line data will be shared with you.

The situation with TECOS is similar, except that their last patient visit is in December. So again we are not going to be able to share data from that -- and of course, that is under supervision of an academic group that will do it -- until after that data base has been cleaned up and all that is done. So that you will see next year.

Then with respect to anacetrapib, there of course we are conducting interim analyses, and the first interim analysis is not going to be available to us until the early part of next year. Sometime during the first half of next year is the expectation. And we will share all of these things with you just as soon as we have them available.

DAVID RISINGER: Great, thank you.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Dave, appreciate it. Jackie, next caller?

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Adam, on pembrolizumab. Roger, just curious to know if, with the European filing, were you granted accelerated assessments? Can you give us a sense for timing of that approval?

Adam, for you, can you just help to frame the market opportunity for pembro in the US? Patients resistant to Yerboy, what is the market opportunity size for that? What would you expect the launch to look like?

And would you anticipate that there would be some off-label use? Thanks.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, Jami, for pembrolizumab in the EU, we are working with our rapporteurs there in order to get a closer assessment of what the timing will be for the filing. In Europe there is a different strategy, as you know, in terms of the timing of assessment; so I can't really speak to that.

I think the best thing to plan for is a traditional standard review, and we will let you know as we hear more from our rapporteurs. They have just accepted the file.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Jami, this is Adam. As we said before, we expect regulatory action by October 28 this year in the US, and we are preparing for the launch, obviously. We realize that with the label that we get from the FDA, we will have to be very clear on the appropriate utilization and where physicians need to use the product, based upon the label that we get from the FDA, which will be in ipi-refractory patients.

So we are going to be very clear on the appropriate utilization of the product.

Now if you look at physicians that prescribe Yervoy, which is primarily for melanoma, you can see it is a very small fraction of the total number of oncologists across the United States. In fact, if you look at the total number of oncologists, the ones that are really prescribing Yervoy are less than 15%, 20% of the total.

So we are really going to focus in on the physicians that are prescribing Yervoy to really know who the ipi-refractory patients -- where they will be seen and where we will be best able to reach them. We believe we will be able to get to each of those physicians within 7 to 10 days after the launch of the product.

With regard to off-label utilization, we will not promote nor will we do anything to encourage off-label utilization. However, we realize in certain situations with cancer patients that that does occur.

Our manufacturing facilities will be able to supply, if need be, the utilization; and we have enough supply. But we don't look to try to encourage that, nor do we try to forecast what that can be. We just want to make sure, if it happens, that there is supply for it.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, great. Thank you, Jami. And Jackie, next caller, please?

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Maybe a couple for Roger if I might. Also, welcome, Rob, to the call; it's nice to hear your voice.

Roger, on hepatitis C, a lot of us on Wall Street I think are waiting for the data that you might have at AASLD, which is looking at the doublet-plus-Sovaldi in a 4-week regimen. I would just love to get your thoughts -- I think everybody would love to get your thoughts -- on whether or not you think that generating high SVR rates at 4 weeks is a high-probability event. Just scientifically what your thoughts around 4 weeks are.

Then number two, I and at least some other Merck observers always felt like you guys have felt like it is at least a possibility you might be able to accelerate the pembro lung filing. I just, Roger, would love to get your updated comments on that, since I haven't heard you speak about it since the analyst meeting. Thanks so much.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Okay, Mark. First of all, with respect to the hep C data, we do expect that we will have a chance to share at least some of the data from C-SWIFT at the AASLD meeting. And my view is that there is a high likelihood, actually, that there will be good responses at 4 weeks in a triplet combination, based on the potency of the drugs that are being used and the information that we already have available from combination regimens that have a 6-week endpoint.

As you know, the determination of what optimal duration of therapy is for infectious diseases is often empirical, and we struggle with that. We still look at those kinds of things, for example, for the question of how long one treats bacterial osteomyelitis, as an example.

So we don't know what the ideal treatment regimen is. But my guess is that we can get to a 4-week regimen; and that is, of course, why we are doing the study, and we are eager to see what the results look like.

With respect to pembrolizumab in lung, we have a lot of opportunities to evaluate potential filing strategies. We have quite a number of ongoing studies in non-small cell lung cancer. We are not going to go through what that filing strategy could be, but as we see the data we are certainly working very closely with FDA to understand how we could get this drug to market sooner, if in fact the data support it.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM: Thanks.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks, Mark. Jackie, we can go ahead and open up the line to the next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: If I could just go back and clarify the answer to the question about M&A and potential targets, Ken, is it safe to assume that you are looking primarily at bolt-ons? That's the term you used in answering that other question.

Second question is on Animal Health. Earlier in the year you talked about having potentially very different outcomes with Consumer Health versus Animal Health.

Should we assume that you are keeping the Animal Health business? Is that the safest assumption?

Then last question is just Merck's opinion in general on the CTLA-4 antagonists and whether you viewed those as promising in terms of combining them with the PD-1s. You have at least one trial where you are looking at a combination regimen, I believe.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks for the questions, Tim.

As we tried to say before, we are not interested in pursuing a major consolidation of the industry type transaction as our preferred approach. We are much more focused on value-added bolt-on opportunities and business developments that augment our pipeline. And I would say Idenix is an exemplar of that.

I also think you should look in the future to see us continue to demonstrate that kind of value-creating business development deal is really a priority for us as a Company, to augment our pipeline.

Turning to Animal Health, when we made the Consumer announcement we also said that we planned to augment our Animal Health business with additional business development. We continue to look at this business as a key growth driver that has industry leadership, healthy margins, and a strong market outlook. So we will look for opportunities to supplement our diverse portfolio in that business, again, in ways that create long-term shareholder value.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes. With respect, Tim, to see CTLA-4, as you know, we have embarked upon a number of different combination studies using a variety of different sorts of molecules with pembrolizumab: standard chemotherapeutic regimens, oncolytic vaccines, as well as immunomodulatory agents, our own and others'.

And CTLA-4 is in the mix. I think the question really will be: How much additional efficacy do you get? And is the toxicity of the regimen tolerable?

And I think there are concerns with respect to both of those, but there may be opportunities. We are just eager to see the results; and no one should expect that the results are predictable with a new regimen until you have actually done the studies. That is what we are going to do.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you for the questions, Tim. Jackie, next caller?

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks very much for the questions. I actually have three for Roger.

With regard to KEYNOTE-006 in melanoma, can you just update us on the timing? If there is an interim analysis, the timing of that.

And how important, can you tell us, is comparative data of pembro versus ipi in the treatment-naive melanoma setting, and why this wouldn't happen very soon, considering the pace at which your competitor is filing in melanoma?

Second is pembro in lung cancer. Has the interim evaluation of response rates in KEYNOTE-010 yet occurred? Or are we waiting for that?

I believe it says that there is a response rate evaluation. And can you just update us on whether or not those data could be provided to FDA for a potential early lung filing?

Then lastly on C-SWIFT, when would you start or hope to start a triple combination with the Idenix nuc? And would you consider going head-to-head if C-SWIFT is meaningfully positive with the Idenix nuc? Thanks a lot.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Okay, Seamus, great questions. First of all, with respect to KEYNOTE-006, we are expecting to have the data in February of next year. That is what we have described, and we are moving along very well on that.

With respect to the KEYNOTE-010 interim analysis, we will have an interim analysis for KEYNOTE-010; we do not have the data in front of us right now. And those data, like all of our data, particularly since we have a file under regulatory review, all of our data will be shared with the agency.

That is one of a number of options that we have looking at the potential for demonstrating to regulatory authorities that there is an opportunity to introduce pembrolizumab in non-small cell lung cancer. We will look carefully at all of those.

For C-SWIFT, again, we will be presenting some of those data at AASLD. We will have the opportunity to study the Idenix compound once we gain access to it; of course, that depends upon the completion of the acquisition of Idenix. We will move just as quickly as we can.

And yes, of course, my expectation is that when we have access to the compound, if we are encouraged by those results, we are prepared to go head-to-head against any regimen, because our belief is it is going to be superior. That is why we are doing the study.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ: Thanks so much.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks, Seamus. Jackie, next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Morning, Roger. If you could talk about the progress you are making for the internal development of some of these non-PD-1 checkpoint inhibitors.

Second, Adam, can you talk about emerging markets a little bit? China just seems to be a little weaker than we'd think it would be, and you mentioned some of the other countries, Eastern Europe. What is going on there and Mexico? Obviously, we know what is going on in Egypt.

Then, for 2015 the formulary changes should be announced pretty soon. I was curious if you can maybe preview that a little bit. Are there any major changes that we should be expecting for 2015?

And specifically we're definitely focused on Januvia. Have you been as aggressive this year as last year, make sure you're maintaining that on formulary and not getting kicked off any exclusionary formularies? Thanks.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: That we turn to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Marc, with respect to other checkpoint approaches beyond pembrolizumab, we mentioned the anti-GITR approach. Again, that is a stimulatory agent, and that program is just beginning.

So we are starting that program now and we have numerous others that are moving along, heading towards clinical trials. So a lot of good progress had been made in characterizing those agents and, in particular, in identifying those that we think are most promising based on a set of clinical samples and preclinical studies that we can do. So we are doing quite well on those and looking forward to seeing the data as we go forward.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Marc, this is Adam. With regard to emerging markets, we had 2% growth ex-ForEx. And as I have said in the past, there are certain things that happen in terms of timing of tenders and lumpiness in the emerging market business.

But in addition to that, we are seeing some pressure in Egypt but also in Eastern Europe, in the Ukraine, for example. At the same time, we are seeing strength in certain markets like Turkey and Brazil.

We continue to believe that the emerging markets will be growth drivers for us. We continue to invest significantly across the emerging markets.

And if you look at China, the 6% growth actually is a bit better than the growth we have had in the past couple quarters, and we expect that China will continue to be a good growth driver for us in the second half of the year. In addition, Mexico, we believe, will be an accelerator for us in the second half of the year.

So, although this quarter was a little bit lumpy versus other quarters, we expect that we will have good growth in the emerging markets.

With regard to formulary changes in the US, those are still in progress as we speak. We have had very good access capabilities across managed care for the portfolio of products that we have in the United States. And we continue to work very closely with our managed care customers, and we expect that in 2015 we will have good formulary access for Januvia and other products as well.

It is too early to have exact numbers on access. But overall, we feel that things are moving forward in a good way.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Marc. Jackie, if we could open up the line to the next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. Thank you for taking the questions and congrats on a good quarter. Adam, could you provide us a little bit more color on Remicade and Simponi? Both were very strong. Just wondering if you could just talk about the key drivers in the major markets and also what kind of penetration you are seeing from the biosimilar.

I apologize if you mentioned this already, but on Gardasil in Japan I believe there were some safety concerns. I am just wondering if there has been any update on that. Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, sure. Let me start with Remicade and Simponi. We had combined growth of the franchise of 15%, excluding ForEx. If you look more specifically, Simponi grew 37% and Remicade grew 9%.

We continue to see strength as we are launching Simponi around the world. And if you look at our growth for Simponi, it is faster than any of the other anti-TNFs in the marketplace. As we continue to launch, we are seeing increased market share, patient days of therapy, and penetration rates with the UC indication that we have for Simponi as well.

As you look at Remicade, we continue to have good growth, but it is driven by the gastro indications. If you look, in about 20% of the smaller European markets biosimilars are available, up until now we have been very aggressive and we have been able to maintain a good bit of our share despite the entry of the biosimilars.

It will continue to be tough. We continue to expect increasing competition from the biosimilars. But we have been very successful to date, and we will continue to be successful we believe as we move forward.

But the real growth driver as we move forward is going to be Simponi, particularly in markets where biosimilars of Remicades are available.

If you look at Gardasil, there was last year suspended promotion in Japan, and that occurred in 2013, and it was due to a government decision that they made. We continue to believe in the large amount of safety data that we have for Gardasil, and we continue to work with the government in order to see how they can move forward to have the proactive recommendation moving forward.

We are excited about both HPV vaccines and also the launch of V503 as we move forward.

The second thing I would say is that we will be lapping the Japan issue in the second half of this year. So we expect in the second half we won't have that as a reduction in the ability to grow Gardasil, because we will lap it in June.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great, thanks, Alex. Jackie, next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Give this maybe to Roger. Your latest thoughts on your combination strategy in immunotherapy, and whether you think you will need to acquire or make more exclusive in-licensing deals to support that strategy.

Then just secondly on CART-I immunotherapy, just give us a sense of your level of enthusiasm for this approach. Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, Jeff, we have adopted the approach of looking as closely as possible at pembrolizumab in monotherapy, because my view is that we need to understand how well pembrolizumab works as monotherapy before we can put into context how combinations might work. To be clear, there is also a mechanistic issue: to the extent that we understand how pembrolizumab actually works, we will do a better job of picking combinations.

I don't doubt that combinations will be used. That is what happens in cancer therapy. The question is which ones.

One can argue that radiotherapy or conventional cytotoxics might be good, or vaccines might be good, or other checkpoint inhibitors. And to really sort that out we need to understand what is the base of monotherapy, and then to understand what mechanistic improvements can we engineer to actually drive higher response rates and more durability beyond what we already have.

So we are looking at all of those things. We are doing strategic combinations in the clinic based on what we see preclinically. I don't see right now a need for us to acquire other molecules for combinations; but I do not have any hesitation about acquiring them, either through licensing or through acquisition, if that turns out to be the right thing to do. So we are definitely going to move forward with those kinds of programs.

And with respect to the CAR approach, I think in the setting of hematologic malignancy for a certain number of individuals there is no doubt that engineering of T-cells, introducing them into patients, can have a dramatic effect. I think we don't know yet from the limited studies that have been published what the balance of efficacy and safety might be and whether that approach will have a greater breadth in, for example, solid tumors.

Time will tell. That work is being pursued in other organizations and, of course, largely in academic centers; and we are certainly interested in following them.

JEFF HOLFORD: Thanks very much.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, great. Thanks, Jeff. Jackie, I think we have time for two more callers.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. I have two questions. First for Dr. Perlmutter, should Merck look at and file the Phase II subset of KEYNOTE-010, would that in any way inhibit the ability to file the full Phase III data when the study concludes in September 2015?

Then the second thing, the second question is: Is Merck prohibited in any way from purchasing the Novartis flu vaccines business and selling flu vaccines on a global basis, given the vaccines JV with Sanofi, since they are a major flu provider? Or is Merck not interested in flu? Thank you.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: First with respect to KEYNOTE-010 and more generally, regulatory agencies are always interested in more data. So are we. So as we have more data available, we make those data available to FDA and other regulatory agencies.

And there is no prohibition based on, for example, an early filing, if that were to be performed, on coming back with subsequent filings. So in general, without getting into details, there is nothing about an early strategic approach that limits what you can do later, if that is the gist of your question.

ADAM SCHECHTER: With regard to flu vaccine, outside of the EU where we have the JV, we would have freedom to operate. Within the JV area we would have to work with the JV to see if it is a possibility.

Flu is of interest in certain areas, but it is not something that we have aggressively pursued in the past.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Steve. Jackie, I think we have time for one last call.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just two here. First I just would love to get your updated thoughts on the HCV market and the durability of that opportunity. I guess, based on the rapid adoption of Sovaldi this year, does that change your view at all in terms of the HCV adoption curve over time?

The second question, it is a follow-up on the established products unit, and I don't know if it's one you will answer; but what are the factors that weigh into a decision here? I guess my question is: How much of this is based on the performance and health of Merck's core business and pipeline? So continue to pipeline success would suggest a greater likelihood of further divestitures; versus a decision on that unit that is solely based on the value you believe you could achieve for those assets in the market. Thanks so much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Let me start with the HCV market. The HCV market is a very large market in the United States, but also globally. Although there has been success from competition there recently, we still believe there will be a significant amount of potential for additional agents moving into the future, particularly shorter-acting agents.

There's 3 million patients if you look at number of patients in the USA alone; and in fact only a certain number of patients can get through the physicians that treat hepatitis C in any point of time. Also, if you look, we believe that you can only get about 90,000 patients through the system in a given year. So when you have 3 million patients and you've got 90,000 to 100,000 get through the year, it tells you that you're going to have a market for quite some time.

In addition to that, there will be a cirrhosis wave that we believe will occur over the years, of patients that have HCV and then develop into cirrhotic patients. So there will be a new rational reason to treat these patients as they go through the system over time. So we believe in the long-term growth for this market.

With regard to diversified brands, we look at the diversified brands on a global basis, and we look at brands that fit into our therapeutic categories. So, for example, if we have a primary care business, and we have diversified brands in primary care, and we are in the physicians' offices anyway, there is reason for us to continue to maintain those brands.

On the other hand, when we looked at ophthalmology for example, we had brands that we weren't in the office for any other reason but for a few products for ophthalmology. We didn't have any new products coming in the future in ophthalmology. We didn't have a pipeline in ophthalmology. Therefore it makes sense for us to divest those products.

Same thing with Saphris. We didn't have a reason to call on many of those physicians in the future based upon our pipeline.

So we looked at them as whether they fit into our core today or in the future, whether we had pipeline in the future for calling on those physicians that we are calling on with those brands today. And of course we look at the potential growth of those, particularly in the emerging markets.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Adam; and, Chris, thank you for your questions. With that I will turn it over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Joe. We had a strong first half. We are very reassured by the outlook for the full year.

We have been able to reconfirm our top-line guidance despite divestitures, and we have been able to narrow our EPS guidance while covering the $0.06 to $0.09 dilution from the two deals we've talked about.

What is more important, what is more critical, what is more exciting for us is the innovative momentum in our pipeline. And we look forward to regulatory updates in the second half of the year with respect to pembro, suvorexant, and also filing odanacatib, Bridion, and other things in the second half of the year. This business is ultimately about innovation, and we are pleased that we are seeing innovation momentum at Merck. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
iinsulin : Diabetes Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty : Drugs/Medication | ihormp : Hormone Products
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140731ea7t001rz
  


 HD
 Q1  2014  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,294 words
   PD
29 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to Merck's first-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Joseph Romanelli, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
JOSEPH ROMANELLI, VP OF IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Stephanie, and good morning, everyone. We would also like to say good afternoon and good evening to everyone listening outside the United States. Welcome to Merck's first-quarter 2014 conference call. Before I turn the call over to Ken I want to point out just a couple of items.

First of all, there are a number of items in the GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded those items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables and you can see them in our press release in table 2. This will give you a better sense of the underlying performance.

There are three tables in the press release. The first table provides the GAAP results, table number 2 reconciles our GAAP P&L to the non-GAAP results for the first quarter, and table 3 provides the sales performance for the Company's business units and our products both on a reported basis and excluding exchange. During the call we will be referring to table 2 when we discuss the P&L and table 3 when we talk about revenue performance.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risk and uncertainties. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

The Company's SEC filings including Item 1A in the 2013 10-K identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement.

Our SEC filings can be found on the website at Merck.com and you can also find our earnings release and all the tables there as well.

Now since it is a busy morning for earnings and we will be together next week for the investor briefing in Boston, we are going to have a shorter call today. Now this morning I am joined by Ken Frazier, Peter Kellogg, Adam Schechter, Roger Perlmutter, and Rob Davis, our newly appointed CFO.

So with that I would like to introduce Ken Frazier. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Joe. Good morning, everyone, and thank you all for joining the call today. As expected, we delivered another solid operational quarter with growth in several key brands and disciplined cost management. The fundamentals of our business remain strong which we believe will keep us on track to deliver on our full-year non-GAAP EPS guidance.

Looking beyond the first quarter, this is an exciting time at Merck as we prepare to commercialize the next wave of innovation coming out of our labs over the next few years. Our commitment to innovation remains strong as it is only by bringing to market new products that make a meaningful difference to patients, healthcare providers and payers that will continue to create value for society and shareholders.

This quarter we delivered on this commitment in a number of important areas including oncology where we continue the rolling submission of a BLA for MK-3475, our anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in advanced melanoma. MK-3475 is currently being studied in 17 clinical trials estimated to enroll over 4000 patients across more than 30 types of cancer.

Earlier this month we presented promising Phase II data from our investigational hepatitis C treatments which has accelerated our path to Phase III development. We also presented Phase II data for MK-1439, our investigational next-generation HIV therapy which will move into Phase III development by the end of the year. Each of these candidates represents the kind of innovation that has the potential to make a meaningful difference to patients.

Roger will talk more about our pipeline and the status of our regulatory applications for our near-term candidates later in the call. We look forward to providing a more comprehensive update regarding these and our other promising pipeline programs at our upcoming investor meeting on May 6, at our research campus in Boston.

For now I will reiterate that we are excited by our pipeline and what is to come.

Turning back to the first quarter, we saw growth in many key areas of our human health portfolio including diabetes, immunology, vaccines and ISENTRESS. We are preparing for many upcoming product launches. In March, we announced the appointment of Robert Davis as Chief Financial Officer succeeding Peter Kellogg who has served in that role since 2007. Peter has been an important member of our leadership team and instrumental in helping guide Merck during a period of significant change in our Company and in our industry. Peter will leave Merck a stronger Company and we are grateful for his many contributions.

As we announced previously, Peter will remain at Merck through mid-May to ensure a seamless transition and is with us today to discuss our first-quarter's results and to answer your questions.

Rob joins us from Baxter where he most recently served as Corporate Vice President and President of that company's Medical Products Business. He previously served as the company's Chief Financial Officer. Rob is an accomplished executive with significant financial expertise both in pharma from his time at Lilly and in broader healthcare from his time at Baxter. I believe his broad global business, financial and healthcare experience makes him a great addition to our team. Rob?

ROB DAVIS, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Ken, and good morning, everyone. I must say it is a privilege to be a member of the Merck team. I've spent many years in the healthcare industry and I have long viewed Merck as the premier research company in the pharmaceutical industry. There is a strong legacy here of translating science into medicine so when Ken called to discuss the opportunity with me, I jumped at the chance.

I look forward to working with the management team and leading the financial organization. This is my fifth day on the job but know that I'm excited to be here and I look forward to seeing many of you next week at the investor briefing in Boston. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Thank you, Rob. We are also excited to have you here.

In closing, our strategy of focusing on our best opportunities while being disciplined about managing our costs continues to deliver bottom-line performance. Our robust pipeline contains many promising candidates representing a suite of near- and long-term opportunities that will continue to drive growth and shareholder value.

I look forward to seeing all of you at our upcoming investor briefing where we will share more about how we are sharpening our commercial and R&D focus, bolstering our innovative pipeline and preparing to launch and commercialize our many near-term opportunities.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP AND PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken. Good morning, everyone. This morning I will provide you with an overview of first-quarter Global Human Health results. My comments will be on a constant currency basis.

As we anticipated, immunology, diabetes and vaccines continue to be areas of growth. Sales growth in these areas were offset by a few things, the continued impact from the loss of exclusivity of several brands, product divestitures that we previously announced and the biannual price declines in Japan. We continue to take action to focus our resources on areas that provide the greatest potential for long-term growth. Those include our top markets, our core therapeutic areas and our launch opportunities.

We are making critical choices and we are prioritizing our resources and you can see these efforts reflected in our reduced expenses.

Let me provide more details on the performance of our core products and core markets and I will start with the JANUVIA franchise.

The franchise had sales of $1.3 billion and 5% growth in the first quarter. In the United States, sales increased by 4%. Our international market sales which now represent about 50% of our total sales grew 6%. We drove double-digit growth in Europe and the emerging markets but we also saw the impact of customers reducing their inventory levels in Japan ahead of the April 1 price reductions.

Globally the diabetes market is significant and the macro trends support a growing market. We will continue to focus resources around the world to ensure continued leadership in the branded global diabetes market.

Moving to ISENTRESS, we had another good quarter with ISENTRESS with 8% global growth. That is despite new competition.

Turning to immunology, the combined immunology business consisting of REMICADE and SIMPONI grew 13% in the quarter. Sales of SIMPONI alone grew over 40%. SIMPONI is the fastest-growing immunology biologic in the markets where it is available. Sales of REMICADE grew 7% and that is despite biosimilar entry in some of the smaller EU markets. As an important reminder, we maintain patent protection for REMICADE in markets that represent 80% of our sales until early 2015.

Lastly moving to our vaccine business. In the first quarter, vaccine sales grew 4%. Demand for our vaccines portfolio remains strong and there are many global growth opportunities. GARDASIL sales increased by 2% in the quarter. 10% sales growth in the US and strong sales in the emerging markets were offset by the loss of sales in Japan.

Looking now at ZOSTAVAX, ZOSTAVAX sales were $142 million this quarter. As expected, sales in the United States declined sequentially due to seasonality. As you may recall, last year we saw benefit to sales from flu season extending into the first quarter. This year the flu season did not extend into the first quarter. In addition, we are continuing to educate customers on the broad managed care coverage for ZOSTAVAX and the process for getting reimbursement.

Internationally we have launched ZOSTAVAX in select Asian markets and the UK and we are seeing good uptake in those markets.

Now I would like to briefly touch on our performance at a regional level beginning with the United States. In the US, growth in our core areas of diabetes and vaccines was offset by the TEMODAR loss of exclusivity, revised cholesterol guidelines and the changes in the HCV market.

In Europe, we drove strong growth in immunology and diabetes and with ISENTRESS. We also saw a generic entry for NASONEX and pricing pressure continues throughout the region.

Japan sales declined 7% primarily due to wholesalers reducing inventory levels ahead of the April 1 biannual price decreases and GARDASIL.

Sales in emerging markets grew 3%. Strong growth in key emerging markets like Brazil, Turkey and Korea was partially offset by declines in Russia and Mexico this quarter. The timing of tenders affected our performance this quarter as well. Looking ahead this year, we continue to expect that the emerging markets will be strong growth drivers for us.

In summary, in the first quarter Global Human Health drove growth of key franchises including diabetes, immunology and vaccines. As we anticipated, there were headwinds including loss of exclusivities, divestitures, and buying patterns in anticipation of the biannual price declines in Japan. We continue to prioritize our investment with sharpening our focus on the best opportunities for long-term growth which includes our core products, our core markets and our launches. We have multiple near-term launch opportunities. I look forward to discussing these with you next week at our investor briefing.

Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP AND CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam. Thank you Ken for the kind words. Good morning, everybody.

Our first-quarter results demonstrate that we are on track and executing against our plan to reshape and refocus the Company for future growth. This morning I will provide additional color on our accomplishments in the first quarter and I will comment on reconfirming our outlook for the rest of the year. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials.

On this basis, we earned $0.88 per share in the first quarter as compared to the $0.85 per share in the prior year. EPS growth was driven by growth in key brands, effective cost management and contributions from asset sales.

Now I would like to walk through the P&L starting with revenues. On an ex-exchange basis, total Company revenues in the first quarter decreased 2%. As expected, this decline reflects several moving parts including the impacts of divestitures, loss of exclusivity of certain brands, partially offset by growth in core products.

Building on Adam's discussion of Global Human Health results, I will speak to the other revenue elements in the quarter on in ex-exchange basis.

Animal health revenues were flat year-over-year, however excluding ZILMAX, sales in Animal Health grew 5% in the quarter. Consumer care revenues declined by 3% as a result of product divestitures and a shorten allergy season in North America this quarter.

Other revenues increased by approximately $85 million this quarter driven by proceeds from the divestiture of US SAPHRIS rights. These proceeds were partially offset by the continued decline of supply sales to the AstraZeneca joint venture.

Regarding the joint venture, we continue to expect AstraZeneca to exercise its option which would bring the long-standing partnership to a close on June 30.

Moving to expenses and starting with product gross margin, PGM was 74.1% this quarter which was slightly higher than expected due to exchange and the SAPHRIS proceeds. As noted in February, we still expect the 2014 full-year gross margin ratio to be slightly lower than in 2013 full-year ratio of 74.3%.

Our SG&A expenses were about $250 million lower than prior year driven by reductions in promotion, direct selling and administrative expenses as well as some foreign exchange benefit. While we are focusing our resources on key markets and core products, we are also preparing for several product launches this year. While we will invest in the launches to maximize these opportunities, we do remain on track for full-year SG&A reductions versus 2013.

Similarly, research and development expenses were about $340 million lower year-over-year as a result of continued prioritization of R&D programs and some phasing of spend that we now expect to occur in the second half of the year.

As communicated over the last few weeks, we are initiating a broad Phase III program for our investigational hepatitis C regimen and we are continuing to invest heavily in immuno-oncology. But as with SG&A we continue to expect full-year reductions in R&D spend compared to 2013.

Moving to other income and expense, this quarter we had other income of $39 million reflecting a gain from divesting Sirna. Also recall that in the prior year we had significant foreign exchange losses as a result of the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar.

Moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 26.1% in the first quarter. This is in line with our expectations for the year. We continue to anticipate the tax rate for the full year to be between 24% and 26%.

Now turning to the outlook for the rest of the year, on the top line we continue to expect revenue of $42.4 billion to $43.2 billion at current exchange rates. Similarly, we are maintaining our bottom-line guidance for earnings of $3.35 to $3.53. On a GAAP basis, we expect to earn between $2.15 and $2.47. Both of these EPS guidance ranges reflect a potential devaluation in Venezuela this year although the timing and magnitude of such a devaluation remains uncertain as we indicated in February.

Also as noted earlier, both SG&A and R&D expenses will be lower than 2013 but the timing of some of these expenses has shifted from the first quarter into the second half of the year. However, we still expect earnings for the second half of the year to be stronger than the first half of the year.

Now touching briefly on capital allocation. A year ago we announced a new $15 billion share repurchase program with the intention to repurchase $7.5 billion over the first 12 months. We have now accomplished that milestone. In fact, over the past 12 months, we have returned over $12 billion in total to shareholders through these repurchases and the dividend. These accomplishments place Merck as one of the top performers in the industry in returning cash to shareholders.

So in conclusion, Merck is entering a new phase of innovation and launches and we are preparing to drive growth in the future. You can see the results of our efforts in the form of a lower cost base, growth in core product franchises, an acceleration of key pipeline assets such as our anti-PD-1 and hepatitis C programs. With our first-quarter results in hand, we are on track to accomplish the goals set forth to reshape Merck for future growth.

Now I would like to turn the call over to Roger. Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP AND PRESIDENT, MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Peter. The first quarter was an especially busy one for the regulatory affairs group at Merck Research Laboratories. During the last two months we obtained FDA approval for both GRASTEK, our sublingual desensitizing tablet for patients suffering from grass induced allergic rhinitis and RAGWITEK, a similar tablet for patients suffering from ragweed allergies. Both agents developed in collaboration with our colleagues at ALK-Abello demonstrated significant efficacy in alleviating the troubling symptoms of patients suffering from seasonal rhinitis.

As with some other desensitizing agents, patients prescribed these drugs are to have access to an epinephrine pen to ensure that the severely allergic patients are protected against the possibility of and anaphylactic reaction.

Also in the first quarter, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP of the European Medicines Agency, provided a favorable opinion regarding the conditional approval of vintafolide for the treatment of advanced folate receptor positive platinum resistant ovarian cancer when used in combination with pegylated doxorubicin. We are developing vintafolide in collaboration with colleagues at Endocyte, the lead responsibility for our companion imaging reagent, etarfolatide, used to assess the degree of folate receptor expression on tumor cells.

Vintafolide binds to the folate receptor and thereby delivers a cytotoxic vinca alkaloid resulting in significant tumor cell destruction. Conditional approval of vintafolide requires ratification by the European Commission which should provide an opinion in the second quarter.

Meanwhile we're making good progress advancing the review of vorapaxar with the FDA. As you will recall, vorapaxar, an antagonist of the thrombin receptor on platelets, was evaluated in a large outcome study in combination with aspirin and clopidogrel as a means of reducing atherothrombotic events in patients who previously sustained a myocardial infarction and who are considered to be at high risk for subsequent events.

Details of potential vorapaxar labeling language are currently under review. We are optimistic that it will be possible to gain agreement on this language in the very near future.

There are numerous other products for which regulatory evaluation is proceeding. The FDA has accepted our application for V503, our new 9-valent papilloma virus vaccine, which we have demonstrated can expand the protection offered by GARDASIL to five additional viral serotypes. We are eager to bring this important new vaccine to patients around the world.

Also in the first quarter, we resubmitted our application for suvorexant, an orexin antagonist for the treatment of insomnia for which we received a complete response letter last year. Our resubmission provides data regarding new lower starting doses for this drug in accord with FDA recommendations.

Suvorexant is also under review in Japan and other jurisdictions. And in Japan, we are pursuing registration for Vaniprevir for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection when used in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. We have received priority review from the Japanese PMDA for this agent.

Finally, we made very good progress in the first quarter advancing the rolling submission of MK-3475, our PD-1 specific antibody for the treatment of patients with advanced melanoma refractory to other therapies. Details about this program will be presented as part of our business review meeting next week so I will not cover them here.

I do wish to say however that the prioritization process that we introduced last year is clearly bearing fruit as can be seen in the reduced R&D expenses that we are reporting this quarter. These expense reductions were not achieved without substantial effort and I'm grateful to all of my colleagues for their diligence in focusing our investments on programs that can make a real difference for the patients whom we serve.

Finally, we are looking forward to the business review next week where we intend to review some of our most important programs addressing metabolic disease and diabetes, hepatitis C virus infection, improved therapies for patient suffering from human immunodeficiency virus infection, and cancer. We are building in each of these cases on a long legacy of scientific achievement which positions us well to make further contributions to human health. Joe?

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Roger. Before we open up the call to your questions, Stephanie, just please as a reminder, please limit your questions to one or two so we can get through as many callers as possible.

So with that, Stephanie, if we can open up the lines for the first caller.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Thanks a lot for taking the question. First of all, hats off to Peter. Thanks for everything you have done for the biotech and now the pharma community and welcome Robert. We are all looking forward to working with you.

Number one, maybe on PD-1, if I may, I suspect I'm going to get an unsatisfying answer to this, Roger, but I'm going to try anyway. But we learned today that Bristol I guess is going to file for lung cancer around the end of year it sounds like probably in 4Q. And I am just wondering if you could give us any kind of an update -- I know we hear about this next week but on your potential filing timelines in lung cancer base case and then upside case?

Then maybe for Peter, these assets sales that helped boost EPS this quarter, was that something that you had planned for when you issued 2014 earnings guidance?

Then maybe for Ken, just big M&A, obviously what is going on at Pfizer has created a lot of discussion around the merits or lack thereof of big M&A. Merck is a big company, capable of doing big M&A. I think it would be a good time for the investment community to hear your updated views on such transformative deals. Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Mark, for the questions. Let me take a crack at the third question. So our strategy is to remain true to who we are, a research intensive biopharmaceutical company that seeks to make a long-term difference through cutting-edge science. Our preferred route therefore driving long-term shareholder value was through innovation rather than consolidation and we believe Merck is at its best when it is inventing new treatments such as anti-PD1. Therefore, we will remain focused on the opportunities that are right before us in advancing our pipeline.

We also announced a new global initiative last October as you know to sharpen our commercial and R&D focus and we are making critical choices about the areas where we will compete and the investments that are required. In doing so, we are also reducing our cost base by $2.5 billion and this is on top of the $3.5 billion worth of synergies from the merger.

As you heard this morning, the initiative is already showing promise and we are divesting assets and making structural changes to increase our operating leverage and we are also exploring strategic options for consumer and animal health.

So while we continuously evaluate external opportunities, our preference is to enhance our pipeline commercial business with smaller bolt-on acquisitions versus large mergers for consolidation purposes.

On the other hand of course, we carefully monitor and evaluate what is happening in the industry and we will continue to be objective and comprehensive in our sentiment. But to be clear, our strategy is one of innovation.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, Mark, with respect to non-small cell lung cancer, we have quite a lot of studies going on as you know with nearly 1500 patients under study. We will have the opportunity to go through all of that and to describe our registration strategy next week and I think that is probably the right way to approach this.

Suffice it to say that we look for every opportunity that we can to bring the benefits of MK-3475 to patients who need this drug and where we see substantial evidence of efficacy we are going to pursue the most accelerated kind of registration program that we can imagine. We think it is that important.

PETER KELLOGG: Mark, this is Peter. Thanks for your comments. So relative to the asset sales and the sale of the commercial rights for SAPHRIS, yes, we did. As you will recall last fall, we announced our strategy of focusing on growth opportunities whether it be by franchise or geography and we also at that time announced that we would be taking some of our lower prioritized areas and potentially divesting them if they were better off in someone else's hands.

As we put together guidance for this year we were well aware of all these transactions and we incorporated that into our guidance and so on the one hand, we are getting some benefits from the sale of the US SAPHRIS rights in the other revenue line and the gains on the sale of Sirna in the other income expense.

The flip is of course we are giving up the revenue of some of these assets that we are divesting. So just as an example for Q1, the loss of revenue on divested assets was about $120 million and on a full-year basis this year which is incorporated in our guidance, the total is about $600 million based on 2013 sales.

So as you implement this sort of a focused portfolio strategy, you are going to end up with a little bit of period where you are getting some reductions in revenue, and in the other hand, you are getting the impact of the transactions in the P&L.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Mark, for the questions and Stephanie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks very much, and Peter, just wanted to wish you the best of luck with everything. It has been great working with you.

So a couple of questions here. Maybe first coming back on the capital deployment priorities, there obviously has been a lot in the press about potential to sell the consumer franchise. Can you just give us an update of should we think about repo as the preferred use of capital to the extent that you are to monetize one of these businesses?

The second question was on the HCV program. Can you just comment a little bit on how you see differentiating your combo relative to the two primary competitors who are going to have a little bit of a head start in terms of time to market here? Would you be willing to comment on any type of market share targets that you think you would be able to take as you look to commercialize this product looking out a few years? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Chris. I will take your first question. So as you know, it is pretty well established that we have said we are going to evaluate our consumer care business and our animal health business. We have also been clear that we might reach very different conclusions about the two businesses.

So with respect to your fundamental question you asked, I don't think we are in a position to comment on hypotheticals at this point. In general, our framework for the utilization of cash has not changed. First, we will allocate resources to those areas that we feel present the highest potential growth opportunity for example, our anti-PD1 program which we intend to be studying for multiple tumor types over time.

Second, we will execute on compelling business development opportunities to strengthen our pipeline and that can create value.

Third, we plan to return a high level of free cash flow to shareholders through both the dividend and the stock buyback and just note that we have returned over $12 billion in cash to shareholders over the past 12 months.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thanks, Ken. Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So with respect to the HCV combo, Chris, just as you have the opportunity of course to see the data that we presented at the European meetings, 5172 8742 has a very desirable properties as a fixed dose combination and in particular we showed really quite impressive sustained virologic responses in patients with who are quite difficult to treat and those who have cirrhosis, who are co-infected with HIV.

And the other thing to note about the combination of course is that the drugs are can be used in patients with substantial comorbidities which is really quite important and something that I mentioned before. So as a single agent in those settings, I think there is quite a lot of differentiation and obviously we are looking at every possible means of accelerating the process of completing the registration enabling trials and the registration of these drugs for which we have breakthrough designation.

And with respect to the market share, I guess I will speak for Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: What I would say is we have taken a hard look and we know this market pretty well. We think it is a pretty large opportunity that is going to play out over many years. It is not going to play out in just one or two years and it is going to play out over years across the globe.

There are some drugs obviously that are ahead of us but we are not thinking of it as a win or take all scenario in just a couple of years. So there is going to be plenty of opportunity for promising drugs in our pipeline as we move forward and we will be talking a bit more about that next week.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Chris, for the questions and Stephanie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just to follow-up on some of the M&A related questions, Ken, I mean what is going on in the industry is obviously very exciting. Companies are getting more aggressive, increasing their focus on areas that they are good at, getting out of businesses where there is less focus, and as you said, we are all anxiously awaiting to see what happens to your animal health and consumer business.

But beyond those two businesses which are relatively smaller contributors to your topline, are there other strategies that you could pursue, other carveout opportunities that you see that would allow you to accelerate your shift in focus from primary care to specialty biologicals and we have seen a lot of this activity from many of your peers.

Secondly, Peter, to you and again I wish my congratulations to you as well and best of luck in your next opportunity. But why wouldn't you raise at least the bottom end of your guidance a very wide range at this point you beat on the first quarter. Just what should we be thinking about as we think about the rest of the year? You did say I think second half would be stronger which is I think how we have always modeled it. But just wondering why you wouldn't take the opportunity to raise the bottom end of guidance? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Jami, for the questions. Let me just go back to what we said back in October which is that we intended to sharpen our commercial and R&D focus as we move forward. You have seen some of the things that we have already done and I think we will continue to look for those opportunities to focus in those areas where we know that we can compete and make investments where we know we can bring forward innovation like PD-1 and where we think we can win in the marketplace. So we will continue to do that.

There are going to be opportunities and at the same time on the other side of the ledger, we are also looking to M&A to enhance our pipeline through the right kinds of value creating opportunities that may be out in the marketplace.

PETER KELLOGG: Thanks, Jami. This is Peter. So you are right in the guidance range we gave for this year, obviously we had a lot of the factors incorporated -- we recognize that we would be making a certain amount of investment for launch and for the pipeline. We understood that the AstraZeneca joint venture would go away and that was included in our calculation. We did know about the divestitures that have announced so far. That was also put in there as well as the loss of exclusivity for certain products.

The bottom end of the range though is more defined actually by our trying to estimate what might happen with the Venezuelan Bolivar. So quite frankly, you can think of the high end of the range as sort of our performance ex that impact and the low end of the range is just trying to make some estimate as to what might be the case.

You recall that last year that devaluation took place in the first quarter and it was about a $0.07 per share impact on us and we have tried to make some estimate. It is very hard to estimate what that is so that is why we have left the range fairly wide. And as we see what happens in Venezuela, we will see what that means to our P&L and if necessary or appropriate, we will adjust our EPS range accordingly.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, great. Thanks, Jami. Stephanie, can we open it up to the next caller please?

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: On JANUVIA, it came in a little bit weaker I guess than what we and I think consensus were looking for in the US, I believe more than 20% in price increases at least on a list price basis. But you don't report that obviously in the US numbers. I'm wondering if we can just talk about net US pricing trends going forward with the DPP-4s?

And then internationally, sales seemed to be on the weaker side. I am wondering what the driver was of this.

And then can you talk about the timing of toplining TECOS trial? Can we think about that possibly as a third-quarter event and can you discuss the what if scenario whereby TECOS may show a heart failure signal like we have seen with one or more of the other DPP-4 inhibitors in the category?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, Time, let me start with the JANUVIA performance and ex-foreign exchange, we had 5% growth and if you look at the US, we had 4% growth. We had a couple of points that came through on price and we had some increase in inventory as well. That was partially offset by a small decline in TRX volume.

If you look at TRX volume in the US, we have seen this month better than last month and last month better than the prior three months so we have certainly seen a stabilization of the TRX volume when you look at it year over year and now we are looking to see if we can actually turn it around.

If you look at new to brand share, we are actually doing better and if you look at new to brand volume, we have actually seen an increase in the month of March which is the first time we have seen an increase in new to brand volume in a very long time. So it is still early yet but we feel like we have certainly stabilized the US and now we are looking to see if we can actually growth TRXs again.

If you look outside the US, we had very good growth in the emerging markets and in Europe. If you look where we saw some softness, it was in Japan and the reason why is because wholesalers stopped purchasing or reduced purchases prior to the repricing that took place and we have seen the wholesalers begin to purchase again after that repricing occurred in March so they are beginning to repurchase again in April.

Overall, the diabetes market continues to show reason for strong growth. If you look at the epidemiologic incidence, if you look at governments around the world and the importance that diabetes plays in their overall healthcare expenditure, the market certainly shows why it should grow. And we are going to continue to invest strongly in the marketplace to not only be successful outside the US, but do everything we can to increase our success in the US.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Adam. Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Tim, with respect to the TECOS trial, we continue on track with that trial; it's a 14,000 patient study. But I need to point out, of course, that it is an event-driven trial, and so those events ultimately drive timing. We are not seeing anything that suggests to us that there will be an acceleration in terms of the readout of that trial earlier this year. So it continues on track.

Then with respect to any signals that one might see in that trial, there has been an interest in the question of the specific finding of heart failure hospitalization based on other studies. Understandably, we have looked at it both in terms of our pharmaco vigilance activities as well as the Data Safety an0d Monitoring Board has looked at it with respect to the TECOS trial because these are adjudicated events.

At their most recent meeting, which was at the end of last year just a few months ago, they reported no reason not to continue the study as planned. And we've seen no evidence of a signal in our pharmaco vigilant study. So we are not seeing anything there. We will wait to see the final data. We are hopeful that the trial will complete at the end of the year.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, great. Thanks, Tim. Stephanie, next caller.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. Just have two. First question for Roger. If I look at your competitors PD-1 clinical development plans by trying to piece those together from clinicaltrials.gov, you can certainly see where there are certainly holes in some indications where you might be able to use your breakthrough designation to be able to file additional early-stage data if it comes out well. So let me just focus on a couple of areas like hematology or head and neck as examples where you might be presenting data at ASCO.

Is there an opportunity to potentially file those additional data sets with the FDA and by using your breakthrough status getting potentially an accelerated approval on those?

Second question has to do with M&A for Ken. Certainly tax inversion, a very important not only Company issue but certainly policy issue. Just your thoughts about large-scale M&A versus franchise enhancing either asset swaps and/or franchise enhancing acquisitions versus large scale M&A just your thoughts on that and your thoughts on tax inversion. And then certainly want to wish the best to Peter Kellogg on his new endeavors and welcome Rob Davis and look forward to meeting him. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks for your questions, John. I just have to repeat what I said before for us, a major consolidation of the industry type transaction is not our preferred strategy. The best way for us to create sustainable value is through innovation and that is why we are focused on value-added bolt-on acquisitions as a priority for us.

With respect to the policy implications of inversions and the business implications, I think we will just all have to wait and see how that plays out and I don't have any particular comments on the strategies of other companies or what the government's reactions might be. So I think that is it for me.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Again as I said before in response to Mark Schoenebaum, we are eager to bring the benefits of MK-3475 to patients wherever we can demonstrate them. We have breakthrough designation in the melanoma setting based on the data that we obtained in patients with advanced melanoma refractory to other therapies. That is not a broad breakthrough designation for any cancer and nevertheless, the opportunity exists always to pursue an accelerated approval where the results are favorable, where you have patients who are refractory to other treatments, have no other options and where you can bring something of real benefit, a meaningful benefit rapidly to the marketplace.

So we will continue to look at that. We will have the opportunity to talk about the totality of our program next week at the business review and we will touch on a lot of these issues that you raise particularly with respect to squamous cell carcinoma to the head and neck and hematologic malignancies.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, John. Stephanie, next caller.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks for the questions and again, congratulations, Peter and good luck in your future endeavors.

Just very quickly as it relates to Roger, the question around HCV, is there any chance in your view to see this product actually achieve an 8-week duration and is there a material difference in your opinion between an 8-week duration and a 12-week duration for an HCV dual combination?

The second question, can you help us understand why you chose to work with Agenus for these Merck targets? Maybe you can just walk us through the Agenus transaction and help us understand why Merck wouldn't be the one generating those targets internally?

And then lastly, is there anything written into your immunotherapy collaborations announced earlier this year with Pfizer, Insights, and Amgen that would allow you to continue working together? And why I'm asking this question is do you have something written into these agreements to prevent a Pharmasset like outcome where one company helps generate lots of great data and then another company swoops in and basically prevents you from advancing those combinations? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Okay, let me try and get at these here. First of all with respect to HCV treatment, I think we are always -- we and the entire community are always looking for more rapidly affected regimens that can -- in these patient populations and of course there are a large of patients infected with hepatitis C virus -- a sustained virologic response that can be achieved rapidly is a good thing. We and the entire community have moved that back substantially from where we were previously and we have the expectation that we are going to be able to continue to drive that process using our drugs. And we will have a chance to talk to about the additional molecules that we have in the HCV space at the business review next week so I think that will be a good time to get into that.

You asked about the Agenus transaction which we announced earlier this week. We have been talking for some time now quite a long time with 4-Antibody which is a Swiss company that Agenus acquired in February so the transaction really was one that we spent a long time talking with 4-Antibody about. They have a technique that enables them to generate human antibodies of high affinity against a variety of different targets and we have worked with them to look at that technology and to see if we could apply it to some of the more difficult targets in the immuno-oncology space. This goes back a while that we have been doing this.

And so we were prepared to go forward with them to try and explore whether or not those antibodies could actually be useful. They of course were acquired by Agenus and that led to the transaction that was announced, no other special details I think to be concerned about there.

Then with respect to can someone swoop in and take the data I guess is the question from our ongoing collaborations with respect to combination products, really I don't think so. These data will give us the opportunity to ultimately see which kinds of combinations can be most effective with MK-3475 and we hope if there are some very effective ones to commercialize and get 3475 in combinations in those indications. So no special things are written in that would have an impact on that.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, great. Thanks Seamus for the questions. Stephanie, I think we have time for two more callers.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: I have two questions. On the Q4 call, the Company said that H1 EPS would be lower than H2 and of course that was repeated today. But at that point it was also said that Q1 would be the lowest quarter of the year. Is Q1 also still expected to be the lowest quarter of the year or if not, is Q2 now expected to be the lowest quarter of the year?

Secondly, I am just curious what are your plans for full odanacatib data, what meeting is being targeted and will we get important new data at the meeting next week? Thank you.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: So, Peter, why don't you go ahead?

PETER KELLOGG: Thanks, Steve, for the questions. Everything you said is correct relative to the second half still remains at the higher EPS quarter. Really what happened in the first quarter was that our expenses came in even more favorably than we anticipated. I think everything else was pretty much in line with our plans and our thinking. Some of those are true efficiencies that will help us and some of them will be things that are just timing related that will show up in the second half of the year.

Very specifically to your second question, which is Q2, we didn't actually provide any specific update on that so I'm going to hesitate to do it right now. But in general I think you can kind of see that the operating expense benefit allowed Q1 to look a little better and so I think we are very much on track to be in the range for the full year. So we haven't given specific guidance for Q2.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Thank you, Peter. Steve, with respect to odanacatib, we do have the full data set in house and so we are in the process of now looking through that, cleaning up that dataset and evaluating it with assuming things go well and I hope we will be in a position where we can say something at the business review about it because we have the data set and that is what we are trying to do and then we will be able to give a full discussion of what our plans are with respect to that molecule but we need to make our decisions here first.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Steve. I think, Stephanie, we have time for one last caller.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Peter, congrats from me as well. Good luck. Just a follow-on to the last comment you were making about expenses. Can you give us a flavor for the beat was more in efficiencies or was it your timing of things, was it 50-50? Just give us a sense on how we should think about the spending gating throughout the year would be helpful.

And then on the allergy pills, I was kind of curious what the strategy was for that product. No one really talks about the product and your level of excitement and obviously the doctors make money on these shots so I was curious what the strategy is with this product?

PETER KELLOGG: So let me take the OpEx question first, Marc. Thanks. So there is a lot of different moving parts obviously in the operations of a company the size of Merck. Let me take first R&D. I think R&D in general, Roger is managing quite a broad portfolio. I would say there it is probably more timing related, that study is still targeting to the below prior year overall but he's got a lot -- I won't speak for Roger but there's a lot of things gearing up in the focus areas both in oncology as well as hepatitis. There is a lot of clinical work going on.

In SG&A, I think we have made a lot of effort that we announced last fall to retune our cost structure and take headcount out as well as take some operating expenses out. That is a very global effort. I think that we made a big effort to try and move ahead of schedule if you will as we went through this year. So I think that that is very broad-based in SG&A.

That said, as we go through this year, we do (inaudible) we already know we've got a couple of launches, we anticipate perhaps more and so we are recognizing we are going to have to make the investments to really launch these products extremely well.

So I would think of it in terms of overall efficiency in SG&A and then some very focused efforts to drive growth opportunities as we go through the second half of the year.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And, Marc, to answer your question regarding GRASTEK and RAGWITEK, our launch strategy is really focusing on introducing those two products to a specialist audience of allergists and (inaudible) doctors. We are trying to do that while we get access quickly with the payers and we have some education and market development work that we have to do. Frankly we missed the grass season this year so we will have to try to do a lot of work to get ready for the grass season next year.

But as you look at the overall market, there is about 25 million people that have severe allergy, moderate allergies in the United States and only about three million people get immunotherapy shots today. But if you look at that, we still estimate about three million people that refuse shots all together so the three million that refuse shots are definitely a target for us. But of the three million that get shots, it is estimated that about 50% of those stop getting their shots after one year so that will be another target audience for us as we move forward.

So every launch is important to us. I am actually heading out to a launch meeting this week and we are looking forward to doing a lot of market development work as we go through this year to prepare for next.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thanks, Adam, and I will turn it over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me just summarize very quickly. So in the first quarter, we ended up more or less where we expected to be and we are on track for the full year. We saw solid growth from JANUVIA, immunology, vaccines and ISENTRESS and we are also seeing strong progress from our initiative to sharpen the focus on our commercial and R&D expenditures including evaluating what assets are core to our strategy.

The more exciting thing for us is as we look to the future, we see steady and substantial progress in the pipeline and so we are looking forward to meeting all of you at the business briefing on May 6 so that we can talk about our future in more detail.

Thank you very much and we look forward to seeing you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
iinsulin : Diabetes Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty : Drugs/Medication | ihormp : Hormone Products
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | gdias : Diabetes | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | boston : Boston | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S. | usma : Massachusetts | usnew : New England
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140501ea4t000h7
  


 HD
 Q4  2013  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,130 words
   PD
5 February 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to Merck's fourth-quarter 2013 earnings call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joseph Romanelli, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
JOSEPH ROMANELLI, VP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Andrea and good morning, everyone. We'd also like to say good afternoon and good evening to everyone listening outside the United States. Welcome to Merck's fourth-quarter 2013 conference call.

Before I turn the call over to Ken, I just want to point out a couple of items. First, you will see that we have items in our GAAP Results such as the acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded those items from our non-GAAP results. There are reconciliation tables available in our press release so you can get a better understanding of the underlying performance. We have also provided tables to help you understand the sales results in the quarter for the business units, as well as for the products. This can be found in table 3 of our press release and the reconciliation table I mentioned earlier is in table 2 of the release. During the call, we will be referring to table 2 for the P&L and table 3 as it relates to revenue.

Second, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call might be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings, including item 1A in the 2012 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck underscores no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements and you can see our SEC filings, as well as today's earnings release, on Merck.com.

So with that, this morning, I am joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health, who will update you on the product and geographic performance; Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer, who will review our P&L and provide our outlook for 2014 and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Labs, who will provide you with an update on some of our key programs. So with that, I'll turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Joe. Good morning, everyone and thank you all for joining the call today. This morning, we reported earnings consistent with the guidance that we provided last year. We did so by managing through faster than anticipated generic erosion, a significant impact of foreign exchange and other headwinds in our business environment. At the same time, we took proactive steps to further sharpen our R&D and commercial focus, bolster our innovative pipeline and accelerate our efforts to redesign our operating model and reduce our cost base. The events of last year underscore the imperative for Merck to remain both a highly innovative company and one that can respond to the fast evolving healthcare environment.

Now I'd like to take just a few minutes to reaffirm our strategy and the approach we will continue to take moving forward. As we have consistently said, Merck remains committed to innovation, applying cutting-edge science in order to develop clinically meaningful medicines and vaccines that save and improve lives throughout the world. It is only by bringing to market new products that make a meaningful difference to patients, healthcare providers and payers that will continue to drive value over the long term for patients, customers and of course, our shareholders. Our goal is to position Merck at the forefront of introducing these kinds of important new products.

In this regard, we took an important step last year when Dr. Roger Perlmutter rejoined Merck as head of R&D. Roger's mission is to help us improve our productivity and our pipeline execution with the firm intention of reestablishing Merck as a leading research intensive biopharmaceutical company. I am delighted that we are already seeing progress with the kind of innovation that can make a life or death difference to patients like MK-3475, our anti-PD-1 immunotherapy for oncology. Last month, we announced that we initiated the rolling submission of a BLA in the United States for this important investigational antibody, which we expect to complete in the first half of 2014. And then, this morning, we announced that we have signed three additional collaboration agreements to evaluate MK-3475 in combination regimens to treat a broad range of cancers.

Last month, we also received a favorable recommendation from the FDA's advisory committee for vorapaxar and in 2013, we initiated Phase III trials for our base inhibitor and received breakthrough therapy designation from the FDA for our combination regimen for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C.

Looking ahead, we also anticipate completing regulatory applications for odanacatib, suvorexant, and sugammadex and may receive regulatory approvals from multiple others. Each of these candidates is based on a novel mechanism that addresses the treatment of a disease or condition in an entirely new way. Roger will talk more about our pipeline and the progress he and his team are making towards moving ahead promising pipeline candidates and increasing R&D productivity overall.

So 2013 was an important year for Merck. We continued implementing our strategy of driving underlying growth while aggressively managing our costs to deliver bottom-line performance. We focused on making the right investment decisions across our businesses while continuing to advance our near-term and late-stage pipeline. The strength of our underlying portfolio, combined with our aggressive cost management and productivity initiatives, enabled us to deliver non-GAAP EPS of $3.49 for the year.

To ensure that we have a strong growth profile in years to come, we placed our efforts and resources behind the franchises that we believe will help us grow such as our diabetes and vaccines businesses and in many cases were able to drive double-digit growth. We also continue to invest in the key geographies that will remain drivers of growth now and into the future, including in our key emerging markets where we saw another year of solid growth.

To maintain this momentum, we announced a strategic initiative in October designed to sharpen our focus on our best growth opportunities and to redesign our operating model while reducing our cost basis. We have made solid progress on all of these fronts. You will recall that following our merger with Schering-Plough after 2012, we achieved merger synergies resulting in $3.5 billion in net savings. In addition to those synergies, we expect a further $2.5 billion in cost savings by the end of 2015 off our 2012 base. This initiative will also increase our operating efficiency, provide us with the flexibility to take action on our best opportunities and to be responsive to the challenges of a dynamic healthcare environment.

This includes investing in new licensing and business development activities to acquire external innovation that will further strengthen our pipeline. I remain confident that these actions will help make Merck a more competitive company, better positioned to drive innovation and growth. We also will continue to return a high level of cash to our shareholders. In 2013, we returned $11 billion through both the dividend and share repurchases.

Finally, I would like to remind you that we continue to evaluate all aspects of our business. Our goal is for each of our priority businesses to be industry leaders. We must determine whether particular assets are core to our strategy, whether they will provide strategic advantage going forward and whether they would generate greater long-term value as part of the Company or not. Through this process, we are exploring strategic options for both our animal health and consumer care businesses. We could reach different conclusions about the two businesses and anticipate that we will complete the process and take action, if any, in 2014.

In closing, in 2013, we took decisive action to revitalize our research and development, strengthen our pipeline and sharpen our focus. As we look forward to 2014, I am confident that we are positioning the company for long-term growth and I'm excited about the potential of our near and long-term pipeline. I am also confident that we are moving quickly to make Merck a leaner, more agile company focused on our best commercial and innovative product development opportunities. And now, I'd like to turn the call over to my colleague, Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken. Good morning, everyone. This morning, I will provide you with an overview of Global Human Health results for 2013 and also touch on the 2014 outlook. In 2013, Global Human Health took action, action to focus our resources on core markets and core therapeutic areas that provide the greatest potential for long-term growth. Top-line results continue to reflect the loss of exclusivity of a number of brands and weakness in the yen. However, we did have a number of areas of growth in 2013, including vaccines, immunology, diabetes and HIV. Our underlying portfolio grew 4% on a constant currency basis for both the full year and in the fourth quarter, excluding the recent patent expiries.

Let me provide more details on the performance of our core products and our core markets. My comments will be on a constant currency basis. I will start with the JANUVIA franchise. The franchise had sales of $1.6 billion and 6% growth in the fourth quarter. In the United States, sales declined 3% driven by a slight decline in TRx volume. A small benefit from price was offset by a reduction in customer inventory levels this quarter. Our international markets, which now represent 50% of total sales, grew 15%. We drove good volume growth in each region in Europe, the emerging markets and Japan and we maintained market leadership. Globally, the diabetes market is significant and the macro trends support a growing market. We will continue to focus significant resources around the world on this core franchise with about $6 billion in annual sales.

Moving to ISENTRESS, we had another good quarter with 16% growth. In the United States, we are maintaining our patient share despite new competition; although it is still early. Outside of the US, ISENTRESS continues to have solid volume growth.

Moving next to immunology, the combined immunology business consisting of REMICADE and SIMPONI grew 15% in the quarter. Sales of SIMPONI grew over 40% to $146 million and reached $500 million on a full-year basis. We are seeing good growth across our markets, including the recent launch in France.

Lastly, moving to our vaccine business, in fourth quarter, vaccine sales grew 1%. The timing of public sector purchases for GARDASIL and ROTATEQ had a negative impact on vaccine growth in the quarter. In addition, last year's fourth-quarter sales included the launch of GARDASIL in Japan and PROQUAD in the US. Demand for our vaccines portfolio remains strong with full-year sales growing 11% to over $5.5 billion.

Now let me touch on two core vaccines and I will start with GARDASIL. GARDASIL sales declined by 9% in the quarter. International sales growth of 12% was offset by a 19% decline in the US. In the US, GARDASIL sales were affected by the timing of public sector purchases, which do not occur at the same level each quarter. Public sector purchases were about $50 million lower this quarter than in the fourth quarter of 2012. Internationally, GARDASIL sales grew 12%. Strong growth in emerging markets benefited from the start of the national immunization program in Brazil. Sales growth in the emerging markets more than offset the loss of off sales in Japan. Sales in Japan reflected the government's decision in June to suspend proactive recommendation of HPV vaccines. For reference, Japan sales were $40 million in the prior-year quarter.

Moving on to ZOSTAVAX, ZOSTAVAX sales were $264 million this quarter, the highest since launch. As expected, sales in the United States grew sequentially due to seasonality. Internationally, we now have launched ZOSTAVAX in select Asian markets and in the UK. We are seeing good uptake in those markets. But as an important reminder, our European vaccine results are reported through equity income. We continue to see ZOSTAVAX as a growth driver in the future.

Now I'd like to touch on our overall performance at a regional level. In the United States, Europe and Canada, sales continue to be affected by the loss of exclusivity of a number of brands, including SINGULAIR, MAXALT and TEMODAR.. Excluding these products, US sales increased by 2% and Europe and Canada sales increased by 5% compared to the prior year. We expect continued pricing and rebate pressure in 2014 similar to prior years. Japan sales declined 4% ex-exchange primarily due to lower sales of GARDASIL.

As we move into 2014, sales in Japan will be adversely impacted by the bi-annual price decreases and repricing of the DPP4 class in the first quarter. Sales in the emerging markets grew 8% ex-exchange. Double-digit growth in key emerging markets like Brazil, Korea and Russia were partially offset by declines in China and Mexico this quarter. In our key emerging markets, our base business is strong and it is diverse and Merck's growth continues to outpace the overall market. Looking ahead, we expect the emerging markets, including China, to be growth drivers for us.

In summary, in 2013, Global Human Health drove performance of our underlying portfolio of key brands. These brands grew 4% in the fourth quarter, as well as for the full year. We also continue to prioritize investments and sharpen focus on the best opportunities for long-term growth. We have already made good progress, including the following -- building Merck's oncology business unit to execute the future launch of MK-3475. We are recruiting external talent with deep scientific and deep commercial experience in oncology. We also divested noncore assets like SAPHRIS, certain ophthalmology products in the US and some off-patent brands internationally.

In 2014, we will continue to prioritize and focus on our most promising investment opportunities. In addition, we are prepared for multiple near-term launches. We are anticipating regulatory actions for V503, our 9-valent HPV vaccine candidate, for vorapaxar, for vintafolide in the EU, for vaniprevir in Japan for HCV, for suvorexant in Japan and for the allergy immunotherapies, GRASTEK and RAGWITEK. I believe that our strong portfolio, the actions we are taking to prioritize investment and our near and long-term opportunities position us well for future success. Now I'd like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP & CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam and good morning. As you heard from Ken and Adam, we took action in 2013 to ensure that we are resourcing our key underlying growth drivers and sharpening our focus to invest in our best pipeline opportunities. We are starting to see the benefits of those actions. Moreover, we are ensuring that the savings and efficiencies we are creating in our business are translated into continued focus on cash returns to shareholders. This morning, I will highlight the financial elements of our fourth quarter, as well as discuss our outlook for 2014 and my remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials.

With solid growth in our underlying business and strong cost management, we were able to deliver EPS growth of 6% this quarter. Additionally, we delivered full-year EPS within our guidance range. Adam has already discussed highlights from the top line, so let me discuss some of the other elements of the quarter. First, product gross margin. This declined on a year-over-year basis to 73% this quarter. As outlined in prior quarters, generic erosion of high gross margin products created a headwind. This is compounded by solid growth in some of our lower margin products such as vaccines and immunology. We expect this mix shift to continue in 2014 with the first-half gross margin being at a similar level as the fourth quarter of 2013. Later in the year, however, we anticipate improvement in PGM, particularly with the anticipated inclusion of the AstraZeneca joint venture. Taken together, we expect the 2014 full-year gross margin ratio to be slightly lower than the 2013 full-year rate of 74.3%.

Moving to other areas of spending, during the fourth quarter, we continued to find opportunities to lower our cost base. You can see the results of our efforts to reduce R&D spending at about $440 million. Please note that this is in part due to a $150 million upfront licensing payment in the base period. Also, in the fourth quarter, SG&A expenses were reduced by approximately $400 million compared to last year, including a roughly $60 million benefit from foreign exchange.

The fourth quarter also marked an important milestone for our capital allocation efforts. We successfully completed the $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program that was announced earlier in the year. Coupled with our ongoing share buyback activity, we repurchased approximately 5% of our shares this year. Additionally, we increased our dividend for the third year in a row. And as Ken said, our share repurchases and dividend payments amounted to over $11 billion being returned to shareholders in the year.

Now, turning to guidance and our outlook for 2014, our guidance reflects a reshaping of our portfolio, reductions in expenses and infrastructure and targeted investments to drive future growth and long-term shareholder value. That said, at current exchange rates, we expect revenue of $42.4 billion to $43.2 billion. Let me outline a few key factors and assumptions included in this guidance. First, we anticipate AstraZeneca will exercise their option to end our long-standing partnership. If they exercise the option, the JV would come to a close at the end of June. At that time, we would no longer record supply sales nor equity income from the joint venture. Furthermore, in the first half of the year, we continue to expect sharp year-over-year declines in both of these line items.

Second, while not as significant as in 2013, we still expect negative top-line impacts from patent expiries in 2014 and we expect that impact to be about $0.5 billion. Third, in regard to divestitures, as we announced over the past several months, we began divesting non-core assets such as SAPHRIS and the ophthalmics products in the US, as well as other products. Sales from these divested products contributed approximately $600 million in 2013.

Finally, our EPS guidance spans a wider range than in prior years. This guidance range plans for a potential devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. The higher end of the range assumes no devaluation, whereas the bottom end of the range accounts for a possible devaluation under certain scenarios. As you may recall, the devaluation of this currency in 2013 led to a $0.07 negative impact. We cannot predict the timing or the magnitude of this potential devaluation in 2014. However, if it does occur, we do expect that the impact would be greater than the impact in 2013. As a result, we expect non-GAAP EPS between $3.35 and $3.53. Accordingly, as the year progresses, we would expect to narrow the EPS range. The corresponding GAAP range is $2.15 to $2.47. Taking into account the divestitures and the anticipated conclusion of the AstraZeneca joint venture, 2014 will be a trough year for earnings.

Now, I would like to provide some additional color on the other elements we have built into our EPS guidance. On R&D, we expect our 2014 non-GAAP R&D expenses to be below 2013 levels despite heavy and focused investments in our anti-PD-1, hepatitis C, diabetes and Alzheimer's disease programs. Similarly, for SG&A, we expect to be below 2013 levels as we continue to prioritize and focus spend in core productlines and the upcoming launches Adam mentioned earlier. Regarding tax, we expect the full-year tax rate to be 24% to 26%. As in prior years, our 2014 guidance does not include a renewal of the R&D tax credit.

Now let me outline how you should think about the spread of earnings across the quarters. On an operating basis, we expect EPS in the first half of 2014 to be lower than in the second half with the first quarter being the lowest. As I mentioned earlier, this is driven by the gross margin being lower in the first half of 2014.

Regarding capital allocation, we remain poised to bolster the pipeline with external innovation and we maintain a strong balance sheet and an efficient capital structure for the right opportunities. In 2014, you can expect continued shareholder-friendly returns of cash through our $15 billion share repurchase program announced last May, as well as through the quarterly dividend.

So in conclusion, 2013 was a pivotal year for our Company. We have emerged with a promising pipeline to deliver future growth. Additionally, we committed to a strategic reshaping of the Company to maximize our core in-line assets and key pipeline programs. Finally, we accelerated returns of cash to shareholders. In 2014, we will continue to execute upon our strategic initiative of prioritization and focus. And we will capitalize on opportunities to drive long-term shareholder value. Thank you. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Peter. As Ken highlighted at the beginning of the call, we are making steady progress in MRL, crafting a more cost-effective organization focused on innovative products with meaningful differentiated attributes. Our R&D expenditures in the fourth quarter, as Peter noted, declined by more than $440 million versus the prior year. While reducing our cost base, we have simultaneously advanced important regulatory filings, made tangible progress in our late development programs and introduced significant new molecules into early clinical development.

I should also note that we have recruited key personnel into our development, regulatory and discovery groups and established a new licensing and business development function. Each of these changes is having a significant favorable impact on our activities.

I will summarize some of our accomplishments in the fourth quarter and discuss our plans for 2014. Beginning with our regulatory activities, we completed our filings for vorapaxar and for our grass and ragweed oral desensitizing therapies for allergic rhinitis. All three of these received favorable reviews at their respective FDA advisory committees. We have submitted potential labeling language for each to the FDA and look forward to discussions with the agency on further steps in the review process.

At the end of the fourth quarter, we filed a US biologics licensing application for V503, our 9-valent human papilloma virus vaccine, which we believe will extend protection substantially against this important cause of cervical cancer in women. Also, I am pleased to report that the Japanese regulatory agency granted priority review to vaniprevir for the treatment of chronic HCV infection.

As most of you know, we received a complete response letter following our NDA submission for suvorexent based on the need for lower dosage forms that would permit reduced exposure to this novel orexin antagonist for the treatment of insomnia. We have now completed the study suggested by the FDA and we expect to be able to submit our responses to their request by the end of the first quarter. Similarly, we have initiated a definitive hypersensitivity study for sugammadex, our novel agent designed to reverse neuromuscular blockade employed during anesthesia. Completion of this study will permit us to submit an updated application for this important product.

Turning from regulatory affairs to clinical development, we were active on many fronts. Data presented at the Society for Melanoma Research meeting last fall demonstrated favorable overall survival trends in patients with advanced melanoma who received MK-3475, our PD-1-specific antibody that has received breakthrough designation from the FDA. Currently, we have more than 4,000 patients enrolled in clinical trials for MK-3475 in multiple tumor types, including non-small cell lung cancer, triple negative breast cancer, uroepithelial tumors, head and neck cancer and some hematologic malignancies, among others. Response rates in our large salvage studies encouraged us to initiate a rolling submission to the FDA with a goal of making this new therapy available to patients with advanced melanoma who have exhausted all other treatment options.

As we announced last month, we expect to complete the file for MK-3475 during the first half of 2014. This morning, we announced further progress in the evaluation of PD-1 and other immunoregulatory targets. First, we have opened a signal detection study seeking to identify other malignancies for which MK-3475 may provide therapeutic benefit. The trial will enroll approximately 320 patients suffering from one of 20 different tumor types, which were selected based on a variety of attributes, including the pattern of expression of PDL-1. In our experience to date, high levels of this PD-1 ligand appear to correlate with tumor responses.

Second, we announced significant new partnerships testing the ability of MK-3475 to add benefit to patients undergoing treatment with other investigational agents, including a 4-1BB-specific antibody from Pfizer, a small molecule IDO1 antagonist from Incyte and an oncolytic virus from Amgen, which has been shown to cause significant tumor shrinkage in many patients with malignant melanoma. We believe that the scientific justification for each of these partnerships is very strong. Moreover, the breadth of these partnerships added to our previously announced collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline demonstrates our substantive commitment to MK-3475.

Third, we also announced a new partnership with Ablynx to develop nanobodies that combine to other immunoregulatory molecules and in particular can be used to form multivalent complexes such that PD-1 antagonism is combined with specific binding to other important proteins on the lymphocyte cell surface. The driving force of this collaboration derives from studies in our own Palo Alto laboratory, examining the molecular basis of checkpoint activity in T cells. This effort with our colleagues at Ablynx will add considerably to our repertoire of immunoregulatory modulators, the cornerstone of our new approach to oncology therapeutics.

Beyond PD-1 and immunoregulation, we made significant additional progress in several important areas of development, including expansion of our hepatitis C virus portfolio. We also advanced potential new therapies for human immunodeficiency virus infection and the development of compounds that act by novel mechanisms to augment glucose lowering in patients with diabetes. Finally, in the fourth quarter, we announced progression of our base program into Phase III based on satisfactory evaluation by our independent data monitoring committee of the results obtained with a lead cohort.

Looking forward, as I indicated, we expect to complete or filing of the suvorexant response in the first quarter and the MK-3475 rolling submission before the middle of the year. Our sugammadex filing will occur before the end of the year and depending upon the review of the final data, we hope to be able to proceed with our odanacatib filing as well. These regulatory accomplishments will be augmented by additional progress in Phase III clinical studies, which I will describe in detail at our R&D day on May 6. And it is fair to predict that additional business development activity, principally in the form of collaborations and alliances, will emerge throughout the year. I now turn the call back to Joe.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Thank you, Roger and Andrea, we will get ready to start the Q&A segment. And for all the callers, if you can just limit your questions to one or two so we can get through as many callers as possible. So with that, Andrew, I'll turn it over to the first caller.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE: Great, thanks very much for the questions. Just two here. First -- first one for Ken maybe. As you have had a chance to review your animal health division, can you share any updated views on how core of a franchise you see this business to Merck? And then the second one is on immuno-oncology; I guess a two-part question. First, what is your view at this point on how much of this market will ultimately be monotherapy versus a combination of immuno-oncology assets? And then as you think about the combinations, how important is it for Merck to own both assets versus to working with partners as you look to maximize the value of this platform for the Company? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: So Chris, I will start with your first question. As we mentioned before, we are looking at our entire portfolio, but to respond specifically to your question about animal health, we have always viewed this as a very good business for Merck. We think of it as being one of the industry leaders. It is the second-largest. It has good margins. The science that we employee in our human health efforts often has application across species. The underlying macroeconomic drivers, both on the companion side and on the production animal side, are very favorable. So I can say that this is a very good business that we like very much and the question becomes what are the alternatives and is there something that actually makes that more valuable to our shareholders over the longer term.

CHRIS SCHOTT: Great and then Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Okay, so Chris, with respect to monotherapy versus combination therapy, I think, again, as I've said previously, we are really at a very early point in the study of immunoregulatory molecules. We are quite impressed with the data that we've been seeing using MK-3475 as monotherapy, but certainly the history of cancer therapy is that, over time, oncologists seek to employ combinations in order to get better benefit risk ratios and to get better responses in a larger fraction of patients.

With respect to owning both versus collaborations, well, obviously, under the best circumstances, you'd like to own both, but you can't expect to discover everything yourself and we want to do absolutely the best thing for patients and advance the best therapies.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great, thank you, Chris for the questions and Andrea, next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thanks very much for the question. So Ken, can you, first, maybe talk a little bit about the interest in expanding the animal health franchise to -- whether it be via swaps or other type of collaborations with other players in the space on the animal health side? And then can you also provide some additional feedback on the -- on your interest in the consumer health business and how that fits overall? We've seen a lot of speculation in the press in that regard. Interestingly, we just met with Novartis's CEO and he expressed that the -- and this is the best time for the industry to be working together in terms of swaps and things like that.

Separately, Roger, just as a quick question, congratulations on the collaborations in particular. Can you just give us a little bit of color into the whether or not you think that PD-L1 biomarkers are maximizing -- or basically when you have high PD-L1 expression that you fully maximize the efficacy of those products or if you will be pursuing combinations in high PD-L1 expressing patients as well?

And then just in terms of the IDO collaboration, and the 4-1BB in particular, what tumors do you think -- obviously, non-small cell lung cancer is one of strong interest, but what other tumor types should we be thinking about these mechanisms having interesting activity? Thanks a lot.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Seamus. Let me try to respond to your first question. So as I mentioned previously, we are exploring strategic options for both our animal health and consumer care businesses. Getting a business versus getting cash is something that we obviously need to think about, but I am not going to comment on any one hypothetical swap or anything of that nature. We are looking at all options, I can assure you, with the sole objective of maximizing long-term value to our shareholders. I will also comment that, again, we think these are terrific businesses. In animal health, we have the number two business in terms of sales and healthy margins I mentioned before. In consumer, we have very attractive brands like Coppertone, Dr. Scholl's, Claritin. I have said that this is a business that is geographically concentrated in the United States. And so as I think about these things going forward, I've got to look at what the practical options are that present themselves and whether or not these assets are going to create more long-term value inside the portfolio or outside the portfolio.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Turn it over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, just for those two questions, the first with respect to PD-L1 expression and maximal efficacy, again, I think it is important to stand back from this and recognize that we are testing a hypothesis with respect to PD-1 activity. What we believe is that there are resident cytotoxic T lymphocytes directed against tumors and that those T lymphocytes are inactivated or prevented from becoming activated by PD-1 engagement. And hence, it stands to reason that PD-L1 as one of the two principal ligands for PD-1, PD-L1 expression would be an indicator of the degree of inactivation of those cells. And if we could block that, we should activate T cells and destroy tumor. That is a lovely hypothesis; it sounds great, but there are many parts of that that have yet to be tested experimentally, particularly in the human setting.

So there is a lot of work to be done to understand whether that is really what is going on. Even if that is precisely what is going on, there is no reason to believe that PD-L1 engagement with PD-1 by itself is the only thing that controls T cell activation and hence tumor responses. So I have every reason to believe that we can build on this and certainly we have preclinical data that indicate that we can do exactly that and we tend to pursue that very aggressively in patients.

The second question is what tumor types will we explore with our Incyte and Pfizer collaborations. Obviously, there are a lot of tumors that we can look at and again, we are driven by both the pattern of 4-1BB expression in the Pfizer case and also early data that are becoming available through Incyte studies on their small molecule antagonist of IDO1. So we will move forward together with them in those collaborations, but I am not going to specify tumor types for you at the moment.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, Seamus, thanks for those questions. And Andrea, we will take the next caller, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, sorry about that. I have questions on the P1 as well. So I will just try to run through them pretty quickly. Some of them are very simple, but they are under the umbrella of a single question, Joe, so don't cut me off please. So first, in terms of the collaborations announced today, is there any way that you can frame the economics to each party if one of the combinations announced today were to be commercialized? Is it something like 60/40 to Merck because your PD-1 is the core therapy?

Second, what is needed to complete the rolling submission for your PD-1 for your (inaudible) failures? And then third with respect to ASCO, should we be expecting any interim data on your PD-L1 positive lung cancer trial, which is scheduled to complete in September or your Phase 1 triple negative breast, head and neck and gastric trial, which completes in October? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Okay, Dave, with respect to the collaborations' economics, we are not going to go into the details of that. Suffice it to say that these are deals that are structured in a way that is very attractive for both parties. What is needed to complete the file? Well, each of the modules associated with a biologics application and obviously, there is a lot of detail there not only with respect to the clinical data, integrated safety summaries, but also CMC data, etc. As I said, we are confident we can get this done and we will complete the rolling submission by the middle of the year.

And finally, for ASCO, we are going to have a lot of data that we will be able to present at ASCO and those -- we will move forward with those. I am not going to presage that in any way, but I should also point out that there will be data presented at other scientific meetings, some of which come earlier, including the AACR meeting.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, great. Thank you, Dave and Andrea, next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Jami Rubin. Thanks. Ken, just a first question for you. Clearly, the Company talked about being poised to pursue external innovation, which signals M&A activity. And I am wondering if you can just sort of size for us what size transaction you are looking to do. Merck historically hasn't been that active in M&A in the last couple of years and just can you give us a sense for are you looking to do a big deal that is transformational, a pipeline deal in the $1 billion to $2 billion range and if you can just sort of help us size that? And then, Roger, for you, just if you could give us a sense for the timing for readouts and potential filings in the new studies that were announced today, specifically Pfizer and Incyte. And then just Incyte has not disclosed the data for IDO Yervoy in melanoma. I'm just wondering if you can share with us what you have seen and what data led you to select lung cancer for your collaboration. And then just finally, and I am sorry about this, but with the Amgen asset, Roger, is there any -- do you expect that that asset can work in other tumor types besides melanoma? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: So thanks for your questions, Jami. Good morning. Let me just try to respond to your first question. As I've said before, a major consolidation of the industry type transaction is not, not Merck's preferred strategy. We would like to be much more focused on value-added bolt-on opportunities that provide meaningful, clinically meaningful products and obviously, we have to acquire those in a way that we believe will create value for our shareholders over the long term. So you should know that business development is a major priority for us. That is why Roger talked about creating a new subunit of MRL and I believe, as you move forward, you will see us demonstrate just how important a priority it is for Merck Research Labs.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, Jami, I can't give you too much color on the timing for readouts on the collaborations. I mean these things we've just announced we are just getting started and obviously, it will take some time before that happens. Nor, of course, can I comment on any data that Incyte might have accumulated in terms of their own studies. They are obviously going to be speaking about that in the future. With respect to the activity of TVEC in other settings, that oncolytic virus has been studied in other settings early on in its development and there was evidence of activity, for example, in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. So there has always been interest in that.

Over time, we will see whether or not that is an important area to pursue, but I think the important thing to point out is that this modified herpes simplex virus acts in part through direct destruction of tumor cells, but in large part because it stimulates an immune response. The hypothesis which we are pursuing together with our colleagues at Amgen is that if we can permit that immune response to be even more robust, that we have now provided two sources of stimulation of the cells that are going to eradicate the tumor and it should be even more powerful. If that proves to be true in one setting, it could prove to be true in many. And that obviously is a very exciting possibility. So the first thing, of course, is we have to demonstrate that the two can be used together safely. That is the most important part of any of these collaborations, but, thereafter, we are going to be very aggressive about looking at opportunities to improve care for cancer patients.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Jami, thank you for your questions and Andrea, we will open up to the next caller.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. The first question just has to do with cost savings and your cost-saving initiatives that you have ongoing. Peter, you have given guidance for below 2013 guidance. Can you maybe add some color to that on the R&D front? Roger, can you maybe shape how deep the cuts have been and how much additional cuts you still need to make within the R&D side of the equation? And then for Adam on the SG&A side, understand you have a new leader running the US business. Are you still a believer in feet on the street or have you reduced your primary care infrastructure within the US based on the evolution of where the US market is going?

On odanacatib, for Roger, what do you need to see in the risk benefit profile out of the five-year data that you will have in-house to make it a filable compound and is that potentially influencing how you are shaping your primary care infrastructure? And then just on animal health, when will we see ZILMAX back in the marketplace? Thanks.

PETER KELLOGG: Okay, John, this is Peter. Good morning. Let me take the first one. I think just to talk a little bit about the overall cost savings program and where we are and how to think about it going forward. What we indicated was that we would see both R&D and SG&A in 2014 to be below the levels reported in 2013. That is our guidance. But just to go back and recap the direction we have been going in and what we announced earlier in the year, we highlighted that we were launching a new program, which would expect $2.5 billion of annual net pretax cost savings by the end of 2015 compared to 2012 and of course, that is not taking into account foreign exchange, so this is on a constant currency basis.

As we have gone through 2013, the tail end of 2013, we actually made a lot of progress whether it be in SG&A or R&D throughout the organization, as well as manufacturing. And we did report very nice numbers, I think very good improvement in 2013. There was some ForEx benefit coming through that I would just highlight. Some of those actions quite frankly were immediate cost savings and so forth. Ex-foreign exchange, we actually, I would say, came through with about $1.3 billion of savings for that year. So that is a great start. That is a real jumping right into it.

As we move forward, I think you have heard Ken talk a lot about the focus of this program, not just being on cutting costs, but really thinking about structurally setting ourselves up to run the business very effectively in a very focused manner, but in a reengineered manner that really takes out permanent cost savings, allows us to operate -- pursue strategic opportunities whether they be geographic, therapeutic area or business line and yet still become more and more productive as we roll forward.

I would say that the savings are split between SG&A and R&D overall. I think that I would highlight that in no way are those efficiencies in any way impeding our ability to invest in PD-1 or hepatitis C or any of the other high potential pipeline candidates. It is being aided a bit by the fact that we have been divesting some assets both from the pipeline, as well as from our commercial franchise. And so, in general, we think we are on track to achieve the $2.5 billion program by the end of 2015. It is a little hard to say how BD&L will come into play against that. Obviously, if there is an enormous opportunity that we go after then that would be a little bit different, but against normal levels of BD&L, I think the program would be -- that is kind of what we had anticipated in our planning.

So on the next question, there's a question about ZILMAX, I believe, right and in the animal health business and I think that what I would highlight is that -- just to back up for a second on that, we did voluntarily implement a temporary sales suspension of ZILMAX in the US and Canada to give us a little time to really work with our industry partners so that we provided real strong accurate data that will reaffirm confidence in ZILMAX and it remains an FDA-approved product. We have worked with the advisory board and have developed a formal certification process for anyone who uses ZILMAX. Certification has started in preparation for field evaluations for ZILMAX fed in controlled cattle and we are on track to begin all that in the first quarter here in 2014. So progress, I think we are following a very thorough approach to this, very important and very responsible.

Overall, the animal health business continues to be a nice, a very nice business. I would highlight that, around the world, many parts of the world grew very nicely last year. Latin America, Canada, North America, Asia Pacific all on an ex-exchange basis did very well. Really the softness in the business was primarily in the US based on this. I would say overall animal health sales ex-ZILMAX in the fourth quarter, just as an analogy -- so if you take the total business sales ex-ZILMAX, it was up 4% in the fourth quarter. So it still continues to do quite well.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, John. This is Adam. If you look at 2013, we really did productize our investments and we made sure that we focused on the best opportunities for long-term growth. So in areas like diabetes, we actually increased our spend in 2013. In other areas, we significantly decreased our spend. As we go into 2014, we are going to continue to prioritize and focus on the best investment opportunities that we have. So I mentioned, for example, that we are building Merck's oncology business unit. So we will be increasing in the United States significantly and other parts of the world as well the number of people that we have to prepare for the launch of that product. At the same time, in other parts of our business where we are de-prioritizing, we will be reducing our SG&A pretty significantly. Overall, in the United States, we have had significant reductions over the past several years in our field salesforce. We think we are about rightsized now, but we will continue to look for opportunities for growth and make sure we prioritize them appropriately.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, and John, it's Roger. Just to comment on the R&D spend issue, which I think -- which Peter handled, but I want to emphasize that, from the beginning, we have focused on three aspects -- on processes, on portfolio and on staffing -- and we are working hard on all of those and it is a journey; we will continue to work on it. Adam and I have worked very closely rationalizing the portfolio. We have improved the processes whereby we make decisions and reduced frictional coefficients and it was necessary for us to reduce staffing. The kinds of run rates that you are seeing now are the result of those efforts and we are going to keep at it.

And then with respect to odanacatib, again, to keep in mind that our data safety and monitoring committee did come back after the really actually early in the analysis and say that there was -- the study should be stopped because of an overwhelming efficacy and a favorable benefit risk profile. So we know that based on their analysis we know unambiguously that there is a treatment effect. The study was designed with an additional blinded extension and until we have the full intention to treat data set, we don't know what those data look like and hence exactly what a file would look like. But I would say, based on just what the data safety monitoring committee had told us previously, that one has reason to be optimistic.

KEN FRAZIER: And I would just frame the whole issue around cost reductions. This is Ken Frazier. The way we are looking at this whole thing is if we can drive much greater efficiency in our infrastructure, then we can continue to invest assets where it is going to matter in the long run, whether that is in the commercial space or whether that is in the R&D space. When you have an asset like PD-1, which I think you can already see, is an asset that we could be studying as monotherapy and in combination with various agents for quite some time, it is incumbent upon us to make sure that we don't, in any way, constrict our ability to reach the full potential of our pipeline because we haven't been very tough on our infrastructure. And I would use the word tough because I would say that this is not an easy thing to do, particularly as it relates to the significant reduction in force of our employees, but I think it is an obligation we have as the external healthcare market looking for greater innovation and greater efficiency. So too our business model has to be about greater innovation and greater efficiency.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great, thank you, John for those questions. Andrea, before we go to the next one, just so that we can get through as many questions as possible, please try to keep it to one or two going forward. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Yes, good morning. A couple of questions. Number one, regarding the IDO, as well as the other programs, are there any first-mover advantages here in doing collaboration deals with three high-profile products? I am assuming there is no exclusivity precluding licensing to other owners of PD-1 assets, but just in terms of bandwidth, are there any advantages here?

And then second, I know it is not immunotherapy, but just in relation to anacetrapib, could you remind us how many interim analyses that compound or that trial has had and when will the next one be and when is it possible that you could potentially present unblinding if there was a strong efficacy signal?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Andrew, it's Roger. First of all, with respect to the question of first-mover advantages, I think at the highest elevation, what we have to say is we are anxious to bring the potential benefits of PD-1 antagonism to every patient possible. And that means we have to choose what we think would be the best combinations and try to pursue those aggressively. I think when we do that, of course, we generate data sets that if they are attractive and promising provide a basis for moving forward commercially.

But the first thing is, number one, can these things be used together safely and then number two, do we really get a benefit from an efficacy point of view and we will find out and no, of course, these things would not be exclusive and should not be exclusive because you want to do the best thing for patients.

The second thing is, with respect to anacetrapib, keep in mind we do have a 30,000 patient outcome study that is going on right now. The Data Safety Monitoring Board met recently recommended to us that the study be continued without any modification. And there are three interim analyses that are planned. The next -- the first interim analysis will be at this point in early 2015. Now I just would like to mention here, it is important to know that this is a study that is being conducted by an independent academic-based group. The steering committee for that study has control over the conduct of the study and so while we are involved on that steering committee, nevertheless, strictly speaking, the study is being run by the Oxford group and so that is just important to keep in mind.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Andrew, for those questions. Andrea, next caller.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICAMERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Roger, could you comment on how your all-oral HCV regimen stacks up versus Gilead and AbbVie's now that we've seen some more complete data sets? Sort of a crystal ball question there, I understand. And then for Ken, in the 1990s, many large pharma companies divested nonpharma businesses and many of those companies regretted those actions. So at a high level, what do you think is different in this day and age? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So okay, Gregg, with respect to HCV, I think what everybody wants, of course, is to have a fully oral regimen that is ribavirin free and that is pan-genotypic and achieves sustained real logic load reductions of as close to 100% as possible. Thus far, we are not there; nobody is there yet. We don't have the data sets there, but I think that we are in a pretty attractive place with our 5172 molecule, which is a very novel protease inhibitor that has very desirable characteristics and can serve as the foundation for future combination regimens, including with our 5A antagonist, as well as with other molecules that we have in development. So I think we definitely have a good regimen. I think there's a lot of work yet to find the ideal regimen. Obviously, the other companies, including Gilead and AbbVie and Bristol and others, are working very hard to find ideal regimens also. But it is a competitive race.

KEN FRAZIER: Gregg, on your question about comparing the 1990s -- first of all, I appreciate the fact that you are implying that there is a lot to be learned by looking at what has happened in past periods and whether those decisions actually drove long-term shareholder value and that is why we are saying we are committed to doing what we believe will drive long-term shareholder value. So you will see, first of all, within our pharma business, we've already started to focus on streamlining that business. When you see the changes that have been made in neuroscience with SAPHRIS, with ophthalmology businesses, with the divestitures to Aspen in our (inaudible) facility, we are really looking at which assets give us the greatest opportunity to drive growth going forward. And that is really the linchpin for us. Is a particular asset going to create more long-term value inside our portfolio or outside our portfolio because everything that you have to devote capital to inside your portfolio has an opportunity cost somewhere else in your portfolio. So we are really looking to have the kind of portfolio that actually drives the greatest long-term growth and value for our shareholders.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great, thank you, Gregg. Andrea, next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN & CO.: Thank you. I have a couple questions. First, for Peter, I believe you cited $500 million in [pan] pressures in 2014, which is far less than the impact from SINGULAIR, but with roughly similar, if not even more gross profit margin erosion that you are citing now. So would you explain that dynamic? Why are we seeing such extreme erosion with even less patent expiration pressures?

And then for Dr. Perlmutter, just stepping back, based on what your immuno-oncology competitors have said and done, what is your sense of where Merck stands competitively both in number of available combinations, number of tumor types explored, use of companion diagnostics and any other metric you wish to cite? Thank you.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Okay, so Peter, on the first question on patent expiries and PGM?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure, Steve, thanks for your question. So let me just recap kind of the background for your question. So you are right; we did highlight that going from 2013 to 2014 we will see from lost exclusivity about a $0.5 billion impact. And that is a tail on SINGULAIR in Europe, TEMODAR and a couple other products that are going off. And I did highlight in the past that some of our -- a lot of our PGM effect has been driven by mix of the different products. Now, in 2013, I mentioned that we saw SINGULAIR going away. which is a very high gross margin product and very strong growth though in some other products that are very good gross margins, just not quite as high as our average, such as vaccines and immunology, REMICADE, SIMPONI in Europe and so forth.

I think the other thing I would say is that we have always commented over time that we are continually under margin pressure. We see on a regular basis pressure in Europe and we also see next year anticipate, as Adam mention, a bi-annual price decrease that is kind of a standard practice in Japan. And so all those kinds of items factor into our thinking and our modeling.

The last thing I would say though is that the AstraZeneca joint venture we do expect to wrap up in the second half of the year. So while in the first half of the year, we will still be seeing supply sales going to AstraZeneca, albeit at a slightly lower level, but still those are lower gross margin products as you might imagine and that would go away in the second half. So I did highlight that while the first half of the year would look a lot like the fourth quarter as we see volume picking up, which drives some productivity in manufacturing, as well as we see AstraZeneca going away, we will see kind of forces that also improve our PGM as we go through the second half of the year.

So I think net-net for the year, on average, it is a little bit -- we expect to be a little bit below on average the full-year 2013 but we do see it kind of bottoming out as we go through the first half of the year and starting to pick up as we go into 2014 and onward.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. And Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So Steve, again, at a high elevation, as you know, there is a lot less to be learned about how best to use PD-1 antagonists in the treatment of cancer. We don't yet know the full impact of PD-L1 expression and how best to assay for it and different companies are using different assays. As I say, our evidence is supportive of the idea that this could be an important marker for responsiveness. We don't know which tumors are most responsive in the monotherapy setting, the range of tumors and the degree of response and the durability of response. And we don't know how to make that better either through combinations with other immunoregulatory agents or through combinations with targeted therapies or even conventional cytotoxic therapy.

So still an enormous amount to learn. When you look at our program, we have got more than a dozen studies, now we have got thousands of patients enrolled. We are looking at a broad range of tumor types. We have been enormously thoughtful about which combinations, how to look at biomarkers and how to proceed. And I have to tell you I like our program; I really do. On the other hand, I also recognize that we are treating a devastating illness that there is a lot of important information to get and there is room for many different companies to contribute. And all of the groups are good and that is great for patients.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Steve. Andrea, next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you. A couple of questions. You are running a Phase II/III trial in lung, looking at high expressors of PDL-1. And if I look at the Roche and Genentech data, it would suggest that it is about 25% of non-small cell patients that are high expressors. I am wondering what your data is using your assay and using your cut points? Is it similar to that 25% figure for lung? I am just trying to gauge the size of a commercial opportunity if biomarker kind of limits it.

And then second question unrelated to PD-1. Ken, just a couple of years ago you resisted the idea of getting rid of consumer animal health, and now obviously those are on the table. I am just wondering what changed in that fairly short timeframe? And you are saying that all things are under consideration now.

So my question is, is it a realistic possibility that you might go even further and actually split up the drug side of the business into different companies like Pfizer is considering doing, or would it likely stop with reevaluation of the animal health and consumer health?

KEN FRAZIER: So let me start by responding to the second question, Tim. Thanks for the question. I'll start by going back to where we were before. I would say what is consistent is I think these are terrific businesses. I think what we have to say now, given the size of our company, given the opportunities that we have like PD-1, we have to look at where our capital should go from an allocation standpoint.

So what we are really doing is looking at all aspects of our company. I will remind you that we have divested SAPHRIS; we have divested the ophthalmology business. So we are not just looking at animal health and consumer. We are looking at the sum total of what we have, where we should put our capital, where we can have the greatest amount of growth going forward. So that is how we are looking at things and that is how I would answer those questions.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So, Tim, just a couple of things. First of all, the percent positive with non-small cell lung cancer with PDL-1, that moves a little bit as you accrue more data. But just to be very clear, we have had no difficulty enrolling. There are lots of patients out there who are PDL-1 positive, number one.

Number two, as we have explained, it is not the case that PD-L-1 expression is determinative. There are responders in our data sets as we have presented that are PDL-1 negative, and that is true in different tumor types and others have presented the same thing. Whether that reflects our improper setting of the cut point as you suggest, our inability to measure PDL-1 expression at the target where it is active or some other ligand that is involved, we don't know. We can't say that.

But what we should recognize is in the first instance, one wants to look in patient populations where one can best characterize the treatment effect, and our data indicate that that is in the PDL-1 positive segment. There will be patients, potentially quite a lot of patients, who don't score in that assay but nevertheless have responses. That is a second issue and one which we want to address, because obviously you don't want to deny the benefits of this therapy, particularly if it is well tolerated, to patients who have no other alternatives.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great, thank you, Tim, for those questions. Andrea, next caller, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Thank you very much for taking the question. And Peter, thanks for confirming that 2014 will be the trough EPS year. That was helpful. I know some people look for long-term guidance and that was at least a start. And I actually have a question for Adam if he is awake after all the PD-1 questions. My question is embedded in your 2014 guidance, Adam, do you anticipate that there will or will not be JANUVIA and JANUMET volume growth in the United States in 2014? If you would be willing to provide any color on that, it would be great.

Then I guess for Roger, I will slip in one PD-1 question if I might. A question I know you have gotten before, but since you have breakthrough status I know you are totally speaking to the FDA frequently. And I was just wondering if you would be willing to provide any kind of update as to the earliest timeframe that you might be able to file for approval in any of the lung cancer settings. And I know this is competitive and there may or may not be a lot you can say, but anything you can say we'd certainly appreciate. Thank you very much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So Mark, thanks for the question and talking about PD-1 gets me just as excited as Roger and I can't wait until I have more to say about that when we start to launch. With regard to your question on JANUVIA, if you look at the full-year sales in 2013, we had 5% growth ex-exchange. If you look at 2014, we expect growth in 2014, the macro trends support a growing market. In the US, it looks like the decline has stabilized. Now the question is can we get it to turn around and we are working hard to see if we can do that.

Internationally, the market is growing and we expect growth. We have high penetration in some markets like in Japan, but we have other opportunities in the international markets where we believe we can get volume growth as well. We expect some pricing pressure internationally. You have heard about the repricing of DPP4s in Japan. That will occur effective April, but it is going to affect the wholesalers in February and March and that will be a maximum of 15%. Although we don't and won't have the exact number until March. We also have good data in Germany where they looked at JANUVIA and said that there was incremental benefit versus the products in the market. We don't know the magnitude of the price decrease, but there will be some price decreased we expect in Germany. But net-net, we expect to grow in 2014.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: And Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And Mark, with respect to our discussions with FDA and breakthrough status, of course, FDA is interested to know what kinds of things we are seeing in all patient subsets, particularly for reasons of safety and exposure, but right now we are completely focused on completing the rolling submission with respect to melanoma in patients previously exposed to ipilimumab. That is what we are doing. We will get that done by the middle of the year. Other discussions, of course, will occur after that.

KEN FRAZIER: Mark, in your preamble, you referenced our comment about the trough year for EPS. What I want everyone to understand is that our team is very focused on and committed to driving growth and we expect to grow earnings off this new base in 2015.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Mark, for those questions. And I think, Andrea, I think we have time for two more questions. Or two more callers, excuse me.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: (technical difficulty) strategy at least initially in the melanoma indication. Will this be focused and built on PD-L1 selection in any way? It just seems that there are many issues about limiting how broadly these treatments could be used doing that even though it's somewhat of a prognostic marker? And then, secondly, on ZILMAX, what is the risk here that this is not to do with getting additional safety data? What is the risk that it is companies like Tyson Foods and other companies that just worry about bad publicity using these products and really coming back is going to be difficult from there? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So Jeff, this is Roger. With respect to PD-L1 expression and you were cut off a bit at the beginning, but I think the important thing to emphasize again is that, in terms of trying to understand the benefit risk profile of the drug, it's important to focus on populations where the responses are easiest to demonstrate. We have been working hard on looking at the PD-L1 marker as a way of identifying sensitive populations. But as we've said before, PD-L1 negative patients do have responses and in a patient population that has exhausted other treatment options, I don't -- it's not reasonable to withhold a therapeutic option that holds promise provided it's reasonably well tolerated. So I think that is going to be the view always and with time, we will know more about how to select patients for this therapy and for other therapies.

KEN FRAZIER: So quickly on ZILMAX, I just want to stress again that we voluntarily implemented a temporary sales suspension in the United States and Canada so that we could work with our industry partners, so that we could reaffirm confidence in ZILMAX, which we really have. And so we are now working with an advisory board, which includes some of the big players in the industry, to provide a process of certifying people who use it to show that the product actually is very helpful. I think we also have to keep in mind the underlying dynamics, which is there is an increasing need for protein consumption around the world and that requires greater productivity going forward. So this is an important product, it is a useful product and what we did was to ensure that everybody was onboard to understand the benefit of this product going forward and we are confident that this process will actually lead to a good outcome for ZILMAX.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great, thanks, Ken. Andrea, go ahead and queue up the last caller, please.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, folks and thank you for taking the question. Roger, obviously you are taking a broad combination strategy for MK-3475 and I certainly appreciate your comments about how much we still don't know, but I am wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on the strong scientific justification you mentioned in your prepared remarks and could we see data supporting this approach at AACR in April?

And a follow-up for Ken. Last October, you mentioned an increased focus on your top 10 geographic markets. What are your plans for the other markets as you prioritize resources? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Right, Alex, the scientific justifications are of several forms. Clearly, we like to have preclinical data at a minimum that is supportive of the idea that PD-1 antagonism will work effectively with another therapy. In many cases, we have exactly that. In some cases, as we reported in our press release with Pfizer, we are seeking that kind of preclinical information and in other cases, we have -- there is data that has been developed, for example, with TVEC that -- with respect to the underlying mechanism of action and the expansion of T cell subpopulations that is extremely supportive for the idea that those two will work in combination. We will have the opportunity to talk about some of those data coming up at AACR, for example and ASCO and of course, at our May 6 business review, R&D review, which is not too far away.

ADAM SCHECHTER: This is Adam. With regarding the top 10 markets, the top 10 markets represent a very significant amount of our total sales. So what we were signaling is we have to be successful in those markets in order to grow in the future. That does not mean that there aren't other markets that remain important for growth opportunities. So we will make sure that we invest in the top 10 markets and we first and foremost have the right promotional resources and resources in those markets and then we will look at the other markets on an individual basis to ensure that we maximize those. Albeit we might use different models and different approaches in those markets.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me just summarize. First of all, I thank you all for staying on the phone so long as you did. Really quickly, as a management team, we are very excited about where Merck is today. Our goals are two. One is growth, the second is innovation. Everything that we have talked about with respect to our portfolio is to put together the right combination of assets that will allow us to drive the greatest amount of growth going forward. We are pleased that we have some very strong assets in our pipeline -- in our business now. Eight of our top 10 brands grew double digit last year. We want to continue to grow our Company and I restate that we expect to grow earnings off the new 2014 base going forward.

But the most important thing in our business for the long term is innovation and we are excited by the evidence of progress that we are seeing in the Merck Research Labs. MK-3475 obviously is one of the first and most important of those things, but HCV, vorapaxar, additional catalysts like suvorexant, odanacatib and other things coming forward this year, we are extraordinarily excited by what can happen for Merck in the near future and we would just say stay tuned. We believe that we are going to have very exciting things to report. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's Merck fourth-quarter 2013 earnings call. This call will be available for replay beginning at 11 AM Eastern standard time today through 11.59 PM Eastern standard time February 12, 2014. The conference ID number for the replay is 26402847. Again, the conference ID number for the replay is 26402847. The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406. Thank you. This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
iinsulin : Diabetes Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty : Drugs/Medication | ihormp : Hormone Products
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | gdias : Diabetes | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140207ea25002gx
  


 HD
 Q3  2013  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,700 words
   PD
28 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's third-quarter 2013 earnings call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Joseph Romanelli, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
JOSEPH ROMANELLI, VP IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Andrea, and good morning everyone. We'd also like to say good afternoon and good evening to everyone listening outside the United States. Welcome to Merck's third-quarter 2013 conference call.

Before I turn the call over to Ken I want to point out just a couple of items. First of all, there are a number of items in the GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs, and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded those items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables, and you can see them in our press release on Table 2. This will give you the better sense of the underlying performance.

There are three tables in the press release. The first table provides the GAAP results. Table number 2 reconciles our GAAP P&L to the non-GAAP results for the third quarter. And Table 3 provides the sales performance for the Company's business units and our products, both on a reported basis and excluding exchange. During the call, we will be referring to Table 2 when we discuss the P&L and Table 3 when we talk about revenue performance.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions in the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

The Company's SEC filings including Item 1A in the 2012 10-K identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings can be found on the website at Merck.com. You can also find our earnings release and all the tables there as well.

This morning I am joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health, who will update you on our product and geographic performance; Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer, who will review our P&L and provide an update on our outlook for 2013; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Laboratories, who will provide you with an update on some of our key programs.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Ken Frazier. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Joe, and good morning, everyone. This morning I will provide an update on our performance and highlight some key events from the quarter. I will start with performance.

This quarter, our teams delivered solid growth in the underlying portfolio while aggressively managing costs to deliver non-GAAP EPS of $0.92. Our diverse core business continues to grow despite challenges in the marketplace.

Excluding the impact of patent expiries, Company sales grew 3% on a constant currency basis with strong contributions to the top line from our vaccines, immunology, and HIV businesses. At this point in 2013, I believe it is useful to step back and look at the solid year-to-date performance of these and other growth drivers in our portfolio.

During the first nine months of the year, excluding exchange, vaccines grew 15%; our immunology business grew 12%. We had consistent, global growth of Isentress at 7%. Our diabetes franchise grew [4%] (corrected by company after the call), and our hospital portfolio grew 5%. As Adam will detail shortly, our commercial teams are focused on maintaining share and driving growth for key brands despite competitive pressures and patent expiries.

Our complementary businesses, Animal Health and Consumer Care, were flat year-over-year this quarter but their fundamentals remain strong despite some factors affecting short-term performance.

Now I would like to briefly comment on our announcement earlier this month to sharpen our R&D and commercial focus. On this point, let me be clear. Merck is and will remain committed to investing productively in R&D both internally and, importantly, externally as we firmly believe it is the best pathway to sustainable competitive advantage and growth.

By investing for growth, we will strengthen our ability to drive innovation and translate cutting-edge science into medically important products, the fundamental driver of long-term shareholder value in this industry. As part of our global initiative, we are proactively reengineering our cost base to realize operating efficiencies, while at the same time bringing greater focus and commensurate investment to those areas where we have the strongest potential for growth.

These plans enable us to reduce our cost base by $2.5 billion by the end of 2015. We are confident that this is the right plan for future growth in the current and future healthcare environment, although the steps we are taking are very difficult.

However, I cannot emphasize enough that significantly reducing our cost base does not mean that we will stop investing for the future. On the contrary, we believe it is necessary to focus our resources even more precisely so that we can invest in those opportunities which best position us for a return to growth.

As part of this same process, we are evaluating strategic options for those areas that have not been prioritized. We have a research portfolio with innovative assets such as our anti-PD-1 and HCV programs, both of which have been granted Breakthrough Therapy designation by the FDA. These require significant investment, and we are committed to fully resourcing these and other critical programs, like BACE for Alzheimer's disease.

Regarding our anti-PD-1 program, we're looking forward to presenting our first data in non-small cell lung cancer tomorrow. I am pleased with the speed and the intensity with which our colleagues around the Company are working on this important program.

Since joining us this past spring, Roger Perlmutter has been working on creating the foundation to achieve a high return on R&D capital by reducing operational complexity and introducing significant efficiencies. This ensures that our researchers are focusing their efforts on the programs most capable of delivering medicines and vaccines that provide unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers. Roger will talk more about that shortly, including how our combination HCV regimen and V503 underscore this point.

As we think about our business going forward, we are focused on balancing the short-term and the long-term by resourcing the key internal programs to deliver our pipeline, including potential game-changers like anti-PD-1, while also augmenting our pipeline with even greater emphasis on external opportunities. In addition, we will maintain a high level of cash return to shareholders through both the dividend and stock buyback.

In addition to the dividend, thus far we have demonstrated our shareholder friendliness with a $15 billion treasury stock authorization and the accelerated stock repurchase this year.

So in closing, we demonstrated solid financial results again this quarter. We are taking steps to sharpen our R&D and commercial focus, which will strengthen our position for the future by increasing productivity and investing in our most promising opportunities. And finally, we are committed to increasing shareholder value in the future through value-creating business development and returning a high level of our free cash flow.

So with that, I would like to now turn the call over to my colleague, Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP, PRESIDENT GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Ken. Good morning, everybody. This morning I will focus my remarks on the performance of our core products and our core markets. Let me begin with our overall performance.

Human Health sales declined 4% in the third quarter. Our top-line results continue to reflect the loss of exclusivity of a number of brands and weakness in the yen.

Our underlying business grew 4% excluding sales from these products on a constant currency basis. Key contributors to the growth in the quarter were vaccines, Isentress, Remicade, and Simponi.

Let me provide more details, and I will start with the Januvia and Janumet franchise. The franchise had sales of $1.4 billion and 2% growth, ex-exchange.

Growth of 15% in international markets was offset by an 8% decline in the United States. The United States sales decline this quarter was driven by lower customer inventory levels of more than $60 million.

With regard to demand, in the United States we saw a decrease of about 2% in TRx volume this quarter. However, we continue to maintain our strong market leadership position with a greater than 70% share despite three other DPP-4s in the US market. The key issue in the United States is that the branded oral diabetes market is relatively flat.

Regarding price, while we saw a small benefit from price this quarter, we also continued to experience rebate and pricing pressure, as this is a very competitive market.

In international markets, Januvia and Janumet sales increased 15% on a constant currency basis. We drove good volume growth in each region around the world, and we maintained leadership with about a 70% global market share.

Now let me touch on our outlook for the franchise. First, in the United States we continue to focus our resources on Januvia to drive demand and to take share from the sulfonylureas. With significant new competition, we must defend market share while at the same time focus on market growth. Although this has proven to be difficult, we must change the TRx trend in order to return to growth in the United States.

Second, internationally we expect good growth. The diabetes market continues to grow, and we are well positioned as the market-leading DPP-4 inhibitor.

Moving to Isentress, Isentress sales were $430 million, which represents about 7% growth. In the United States we are maintaining our patient share despite new competition, although it is still early. Outside of the US Isentress continues to have solid volume growth.

Moving to immunology, the combined immunology business consisting of Remicade and Simponi grew 16% in the quarter. Sales of Simponi grew 40% to $126 million this quarter.

We are seeing good growth across our markets including the recent launch in France. We are also pleased with last month's European approval for an additional indication in ulcerative colitis.

Lastly, moving to our vaccine business, demand for our vaccines portfolio remains very strong. We also benefited from about $90 million of higher US public sector purchases, including about $60 million of Gardasil, and about $30 million of RotaTeq sales in the quarter.

Gardasil maintained its strong performance with 15% growth year-over-year. US sales increased more than 30% due to continued uptake of the male indication and higher public sector purchases.

Internationally, as expected, sales declined this quarter. The Japanese government decision in June to suspend proactive recommendation of HPV vaccines had a negative impact on the HPV market. We continue to work with the Japanese government to provide the vast amount of persuasive safety and efficacy data available for Gardasil.

In addition, the timing of emerging market tenders had an unfavorable impact on sales this quarter.

Moving on to Zostavax, Zostavax sales were $185 million this quarter. As expected, sales in the United States are up sequentially due to seasonality. However, the flu vaccination season is getting a late start this year, so we would expect our strongest quarter of the year to be the fourth quarter.

Internationally, we have now launched in a select set of Asian markets and the United Kingdom. We are seeing good uptake in each of those markets. As an important reminder, our European vaccine sales are reported through equity income.

We recently received approval of our Durham manufacturing facility and we are on track to launch in additional markets beginning next year. We continue to see Zostavax as a key growth driver.

Now I would like to touch on our regional performance. In the United States, Europe, and Canada, sales continued to be affected by the loss of exclusivity Singulair, Maxalt, Propecia, Clarinex, and most recently Temodar in the United States. Excluding these products, US sales increased by 7%, and Europe and Canada sales increased by 3% as compared to the prior year.

Japan sales declined 2%, ex-exchange, due to an increase in the utilization of generic versus branded products, but also lower sales of Gardasil, as I mentioned earlier. Sales in emerging markets grew by 2%, ex-exchange. Double-digit growth in key emerging markets like Brazil, Korea, Russia, and Turkey was partially offset by declines in China and Mexico this quarter.

The timing of tenders also affected our performance in the emerging markets including China this quarter. In key emerging markets, our base business is strong and diverse, and Merck's growth continues to outpace the overall market. We expect stronger growth in the emerging markets in fourth quarter.

Before I close I would just like to touch on the changes we're making in Global Human Health as part of the global initiative we announced earlier this month. We are sharpening our focus on core therapeutic areas and top markets. We are prioritizing investment in those areas where we have a future platform for growth and for leadership, like diabetes and vaccines.

In other areas, we are reducing investment and looking for creative ways to be successful in the marketplace and to maximize the values of these assets.

In closing, the Human Health business demonstrated growth of our underlying portfolio of key brands this quarter. I am confident that the changes we are making, together with our strong portfolio, position us well for future success.

Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam, and good morning. As you heard from Ken and Adam, today's results reflect the various pushes and pulls the business is facing today.

First, we continue to work through the negative impact of patent expiries. Second, we saw strong growth in key areas of the base business such as immunology and vaccines.

Third, we maintained solid levels of sales and market share with products that are under considerable competitive pressures. And finally, we continued to manage costs effectively while making focused investments for future growth.

In total, we delivered a solid performance this quarter. Reflective of this quarter's performance, we are narrowing our 2013 non-GAAP EPS guidance range to $3.48 to $3.52.

Coupled with the new global initiatives to strengthen Merck by sharpening our commercial and R&D focus, today's results demonstrate that Merck is committed to delivering in the short-term while preparing the organization for future growth.

This morning, I will talk briefly about our performance in the third quarter, and I will discuss our outlook for the remainder of the year. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials.

Starting at the bottom line, we earned $0.93 (sic - see release "$0.92") per share this quarter. Merck is now emerging from the most significant period of Singulair patent expiry, which began in August of last year. Also, this year has brought significant foreign exchange headwinds. So it is important for us to highlight how the underlying base business is performing outside of patent expiries and foreign exchange.

On that basis, sales increased 4% in our Pharmaceutical business, as Adam outlined earlier. Also, on an ex-exchange basis, Animal Health sales were flat year-over-year. Growth in companion animal and swine segments was offset by declines in the cattle segment.

In Consumer Care, sales were also flat on an ex-exchange basis. Strong sales of Claritin and the launch of our new Oxytrol OTC product offering were offset by the footcare and GI segments.

Moving to other revenues, we saw a 14% decline in supply sales to AstraZeneca in the third quarter. As the joint venture continues to utilize an alternative supplier and as we approach the May 2014 US patent expiration for Nexium, we expect increasingly aggressive year-over-year declines.

At the PGM line, as discussed in prior periods, generic erosion of high gross margin products created a headwind on the gross margin this quarter. As a result, our non-GAAP gross margin declined on a year-over-year basis to 74%.

Turning to marketing and administrative expenses, our third-quarter SG&A expenses were about $220 million lower year-over-year as a function of continued proactive cost management and foreign exchange. We continue to expect SG&A spending in 2013 to be lower than 2012.

Moving on to R&D, research and development expenses in the third quarter were about $260 million lower than prior year. The magnitude of this decline represents continued cost management and some impact of timing of clinical program investments.

For example, we are now initiating Phase III studies for the partnered SGLT2 program, which will bring milestone payments and clinical development costs into the fourth quarter. And we will continue to invest heavily on our anti-PD-1 program. Taken together, we still expect that our full-year 2013 R&D expenses will be lower than 2012.

Moving on to other line items, equity income from affiliates decreased $56 million versus the prior year due to lower income from the AstraZeneca joint venture. We expect to see continued sharp declines as we approach the end of the partnership. We fully expect AstraZeneca to exercise its option to end the JV in June of next year, and you should plan your models for supply sales and equity income accordingly.

Other income and expense was about $30 million lower year-over-year. Lower foreign exchange losses on the balance sheet offset higher interest expense from the $6.5 billion debt offering we completed earlier this year.

Now moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 25.3% in the third quarter. As previously discussed, this rate is significantly higher than the first half of 2013, and it is also consistent with the range we expect to see for the business going forward in 2014. With this quarter's results we are maintaining our estimated full-year 2013 tax rate to be in the range of 22% to 23%.

Now turning to the outlook for the rest of the year, on the bottom line, as I noted earlier, we are narrowing our 2013 non-GAAP EPS guidance to $3.48 to $3.52. On a GAAP basis we expect to earn between $1.61 and $1.79.

Regarding capital allocation, while we remain ready to bolster the pipeline with external innovation at any time, we maintain a strong balance sheet and an efficient capital structure which has enabled us to return cash in a shareholder friendly manner. As I noted a few weeks ago, we have returned roughly 100% of free cash flow over the last five years through the combination of a strong dividend and a focused share repurchase program.

This year, you can see the impact of our accelerated share repurchase in our average shares outstanding. We remain on track to repurchase $7.5 billion of stock in the first 12 months of the new $15 billion repurchase authorization announced in May, inclusive of the ASR. Beyond May 2014, you should expect ongoing share reductions where consistent with historical patterns and continued commitment to a strong dividend.

So in conclusion, this was a strong quarter. I would like to clarify that I may have misspoken earlier; I said $0.93 earned in the quarter on a non-GAAP basis. We earned $0.92 per share this quarter, and that is what is shown in the press release.

It was a solid quarter where we continued to drive growth across the base of the business in the midst of generic erosion and competitive challenges. We aggressively managed costs, and we will continue to do, so as outlined in the new global initiative.

We are committed to maintaining this focus while investing in innovation and driving future growth. Thank you.

Now I will turn the call over to Roger, who will provide an update on MRL. Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP, PRESIDENT MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Peter. During the third quarter we made considerable progress in advancing the goals of Merck Research Laboratories while focusing intently on aligning investment with the best opportunities in our portfolio.

In the vaccines area we were certainly pleased to receive the Prix Galien this year for Zostavax, our innovative shingles vaccine. We also announced last week that the V503 program, our 9-valent human papillomavirus vaccine, met its primary endpoints with respect to prevention of pathology associated with five HPV serotypes not covered by Gardasil. Detailed results will be presented at the EUROGIN conference in November in Florence.

The distribution of cancer-associated HPV serotypes varies substantially among human populations, even in the United States. The V503 vaccine should provide protection against nearly 90% of these strains. As previously mentioned, we expect to file for FDA approval of V503 before the end of this year.

Also from a regulatory perspective, we continue to make progress in developing lower-dose formulations of suvorexant, our orexin antagonist for insomnia. We remain on track to complete our response to questions from the FDA during the first half of 2014.

In September, the Company announced that it received a Complete Response Letter from the US FDA for the resubmission of the new drug application for sugammadex sodium injection, Merck's investigational medicine for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium. To address the Complete Response Letter, the Company intends to start a confirmatory hypersensitivity study as soon as practicable, based on forthcoming discussions with the FDA.

This will, of course, impose a delay on our FDA submission. We expect to provide more detail on the nature of this delay following additional discussion with the agency.

Separately, we're looking forward to the advisory committee meeting for our review of oral immunization therapy for grass allergy, which has now been rescheduled for December 12. We had previously submitted a separate BLA for a ragweed allergen tablet and are working closely with our partner in this area, ALK-Abello, on a more comprehensive program for house dust mite allergy.

From a development perspective, as Ken mentioned, we will present interim data on the effect of MK-3475, our antibody directed against PD-1, in patients with refractory non-small cell lung cancer at the World Conference on Lung Cancer in Sydney, Australia. The MK-3475 program is now quite broad and it includes studies in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, triple-negative breast cancer, uroepithelial tumors, colorectal cancer, and hematologic malignancies in addition to non-small cell lung cancer and, of course, malignant melanoma. The breadth of this program highlights the opportunity that we see for this new agent, which we hope will prove effective in a large number of malignancies.

Among novel therapeutic categories earlier this month, the FDA granted breakthrough designation to MK-5172 and MK 8742, our HCV protease inhibitor, coupled with an inhibitor of viral assembly, which are lead elements in the broader MLR program for treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection. Interim data describing virologic responses in genotype 1 infected patients treated with these agents will be presented at the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases meeting in Washington, DC, next week.

These results should give hepatologists a sense of our enthusiasm for the new hepatitis C treatment regimens that we are exploring, including those involving other potent direct-acting antiviral agents that are at earlier stages in development.

Finally, in development we've initiated Phase III studies of ertugliflozin, an investigational oral SGLT2 inhibitor, in partnership with Pfizer. As previously discussed, this compound has very favorable pharmaceutical properties which should enable exploration in combination with sitagliptin and other antidiabetic agents.

I wish to note that we are making very good progress in focusing our expenditures on the most promising new programs in our portfolio. We regret that we have found it necessary to eliminate a number of positions as part of this organizational realignment. Nevertheless, as Ken has made plain, our actions do not signal a softening and our commitment to research and development.

It is my firm belief that breakthrough research provides the only sustainable competitive advantage for our Company, and I intend to husband our resources with great care to ensure that the most important programs receive phase appropriate support. Ken?

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: All right. Thank you, Andrea -- and thank you, Roger. So, Andrea, before we move into Q&A, just a reminder. So we can get to as many questions as possible, please limit yourself to just one or two questions. If you have additional questions, please feel free to rejoin the queue. So with that, Andrea, we will start the Q&A session.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: On PD-1, as the data set continues to evolve, Roger, do you have a view yet on what the duration of therapy will be in the real world?

And then perhaps for Adam, on Januvia US; is 2014 shaping up to be a better or a worse year from a rebating and discounting standpoint relative to 2013? I believe a fourth competitor was coming into the mix as contracting was being done for 2013. Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So, Gregg, we don't know what the length of the therapeutic regimen will be. We have sort of taken a swag at in our studies. We have two years of therapy in our current study protocols.

But we really -- we are not sure what the durability will be like and we are also not sure what it would be like to engage in retreatment in individuals who may have failed. So those are the questions that we will have to get at in the future. At the moment we are still trying to establish what the fundamental response rates are and the durability response in a variety of different tumor settings.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And then, Gregg, with regard to 2014, we are not giving specific guidance at this time (technical difficulty) and we don't typically give discounts and rebates on individual products. But what I will say is, if you look at where we are today, we have about 80% access in managed care.

So we have a very strong formulary position, and we believe that we will have a similar, very strong formulary position in 2014 with greater than 80% access, and that the rebate and discounting will continue to be aggressive in the marketplace but with that said, we are going to maintain a very strong access position for Januvia in 2014.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, thank you. Just a couple questions. First on the Januvia/Janumet franchise, Peter, if you can provide us a little bit more granularity on what you are seeing in terms of volume and price. Obviously you have the largest share of over 70%, but with other DPP-4s on the market and SGLT2s, can you give us a sense for where you would expect that 70% to go?

And can you reconfirm whether or not you expect this franchise to still grow in the mid single digits? I think that was your guidance in the previous call.

Then secondly on the gross margin, 74%, remind me what was the hit from FX. And how should we think about the gross margin going forward? Is there any reason why that gets better in 2014? Thanks very much.

PETER KELLOGG: Jami, hi. Why don't I let Adam take the first couple questions related to Januvia/Janumet and the franchise outlook, and then I will come back to the PGM. So, Adam?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, so let me give you some context, Jami, to Januvia and Janumet. I am going to start first at a high level and a global high level, which says -- and it is clear that diabetes is a growing epidemic, that it is a significant concern in almost every market around the world, including the United States.

If you talk to any government they would tell you that they are very concerned about the growth of expenditures due to diabetic patients. So the market underlying demographics remains very strong.

If you look at the United States, we had a decline of 8% year-over-year, but that was almost entirely due to customer inventory levels where we saw a greater than $60 million decrease in the inventory levels.

If you focus on TRx volume in the US you saw about a 2% decline in volume. We did see a benefit from price; but with the continued pressure on rebates and discounts we saw several percentage points that could be attributed to price.

When you think about guidance in the US, what you are seeing is it is very difficult to predict the channel movements. You saw last quarter we had 9% growth; this quarter we had minus 8%. And that is primarily due to the changes in wholesalers and channels.

So what I am focusing on are putting the right resources behind Januvia in order to change the current TRx trend. And I believe the most important thing to watch is the TRx trend. What we need to do as we go into 2014 is to ensure that we don't continue to see TRx volume losses.

The fact that we still have greater than 70% market share, despite four DPP-4s in the marketplace, tells you that we have a very strong position. We are losing a little bit of market share each month, but you would expect that with four competitors.

The real key is that the DPP-4 market and the branded oral antidiabetic market isn't growing. Typically when you have four or five new branded products in the market you see growth in the market and you see expansion of the market. We are not seeing that right now in the United States.

So we have to focus on moving patients that are currently on sulfonylureas to Januvia, or make sure that Januvia is seen as the likely next step after metformin, before sulfonylureas.

Outside the US it is a very different story. Outside the US we still have about 70% market share. We saw 15% growth year-over-year.

And despite losing a little bit of market share in markets here and there, the overall market is continuing to grow. So with the market growth that we are seeing outside the US, that is why we are still able to see very strong volume growth, despite losing a small amount of market share.

PETER KELLOGG: Thanks, Adam. So, Jami, I will come back on your PGM question. In fact, just to restate, in the third quarter this year our PGM was about 74%, and that is compared to 75.2% last year.

Really most of that year-over-year impact is what we've been indicating all along, which is the generic impact of having Singulair go off-patent both in the US and in Europe. Obviously, Singulair was a very high PGM product, so that is primarily the driver of that.

On a sequential basis, we actually had some additional product mix as we went from the second to third quarter. In the second quarter we actually benefited from some productivity gains.

Now, foreign exchange was really a minor impact actually in the third quarter year-over-year, so that is not a big driver this time. It is much more the impact of these patent expirations.

But I do want to mention, while we are talking about PGM, is we do have an ongoing multiyear effort to run our manufacturing network in a more and more efficient manner. We have made great progress so far.

You recall, back at the time of the merger we had 95 plants around the world. And today we are down to about 68 sites around the world, so great progress already and the productivity from that continues to come through.

So at this point, what you are seeing on the PGM line is nice productivity gains from all that work and those actions. But we do see, on the other hand, the impact of the expiries as well as pricing pressure that we have all talked about, which tightens up the PGM line as well.

So it is a bit of a balancing. And what we have indicated is that for this year, for 2013, we expect PGM to be down at least or more than 1 point versus prior year on a full-year basis.

We haven't given guidance yet for next year, but obviously we are down now at this point, where we are out of a lot of the Singulair expiry impact. You know, Singulair went off-patent and actually the sales declined very rapidly, as you know.

So as we go into 2014, we will see other things coming into effect, such as the AstraZeneca joint venture and others. But basically most of that LOE impact is done as far as Singulair is concerned. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. A couple questions, please. The Company reiterated that both R&D and SG&A would be below 2012. But with only one more quarter to go, I am wondering if you could say how much below they would be.

Secondly, to what do you attribute the weakness in China? Other than GlaxoSmithKline, most other companies have continued to deliver good growth in China, despite the investigation. So what can you tell us about China? Thank you.

PETER KELLOGG: Hi, Steve. It's Peter. Why don't I take the first question on the operating expenses?

At this point we haven't given guidance further than that. The one thing I would like to highlight, Steve, and I mentioned it on the call in my comments earlier, is that in R&D we did have some timing impacts that actually -- our guidance on a full-year basis hasn't changed much; it has just tightened the range.

So really in that regard the second half of the year is pretty much as our guidance had stood previously. It is just that we actually got a little lighter spending in the third quarter; and we expect with the startup of some of the activity on SGLT2 as well as our growing drive against PD-1 and the broadening clinical trial base that's going on in that program we expect to see R&D pick up some of that.

So on a full-year basis we are still in the same neighborhood. On China, I will turn that over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Steve. In China, our underlying demand remains strong. We did see some hospital inventory declines associated with the current situation there. There is nothing specific to Merck versus the other multinational companies.

There was some timing of tenders that occurred, but overall we are seeing better performance this month than we did last month versus the prior month. So there is nothing that you should think of different for us versus the other multinational companies and what they face in China.

The other thing affecting our emerging markets' performance this quarter was wholesaler inventory levels in Mexico. We saw very strong growth in Brazil, Korea, Russia, and Turkey; and we expect you will see better emerging market growth in the fourth quarter of this year.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, Ken, you mentioned you're focused on what is strategic, what is nonstrategic. I was wondering if you could just remind us exactly what is strategic and what is nonstrategic.

And then is there any way you can help quantify us the tender? So we understand how much moved third to fourth quarter for some of these emerging markets. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. Thank you very much for the question, Marc. Let me take a step back and try to frame the strategy issues from my perspective.

I would start with what we announced on October 1, which was that we intend to drive additional efficiencies while sharpening our focus on R&D and within the commercial business to prioritize what we believe are the key programs and markets that will drive our future growth. So we talked about the importance of vaccines going forward; we talked about the importance of diabetes going forward; we talked about the importance of our oncology portfolio, which is driven largely by the anti-PD-1 opportunities that we believe we will be working on for the next decade, frankly. And we also talked about our hospital products area.

So those would be four that we actually cited as being the most important to our future growth. And as we go through this, I think what we are also focusing on is we are now getting past our major loss of exclusivity period as well as the end of our JV with AstraZeneca.

So as part of all of that prioritization you should expect to see us focus more on those areas that I identified; but at the same time you might look to see us divest products and programs and potentially businesses such as our recent announcement with Aspen which will impact 2014.

Our strategic plan has multiple levers for running the business over the long term while being mindful that there are still short-term opportunities. Let me be clear, as I said, we are evaluating all of our options to fund the right programs for the future of the Company, because we know that successful R&D will be our long-term competitive advantage.

As Peter Kellogg mentioned, another strategic asset we have is that we have a strong balance sheet that will afford us the opportunity to accelerate business development, which is a real and important opportunity for Merck. We will also look for ways to continue to return cash to our shareholders.

You have seen us raise our dividend over the past two years; we are constantly evaluating if we can do more, because this is the primary way that we return cash to our shareholders. And we announced a $15 billion buyback and accelerated effort through the ASR.

So we are also finally, as I mentioned, looking at our complementary businesses of Animal Health and Consumer Care, always to determine whether these businesses are more advantageous inside or outside the Company. So as I would say, we have multiple levers we can pull to fund our growth over the long term while being mindful of the short-term needs. But the most important ones are the areas of major focus in R&D and the main programs that Roger has talked about like our anti-PD-1 program and our HCV portfolio.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And, Marc, with regard to tenders, we don't break out our specific tender sales. And in fact we are still working to win some for the fourth quarter. So you are always working through the quarter to win as many of the tenders as you can; and then once you win them it is how fast you can ship and whether you ship in the fourth quarter or the first quarter for those winning in tenders.

But what I ask you -- just from a bigger picture perspective, in the first quarter we grew 8% in emerging markets. In the second quarter we grew 10% in emerging markets. I am saying the third quarter is an anomaly at 2%, that we believe that the fourth quarter will be stronger growth than what you saw in the third quarter, which will be partially due to tenders but there will be other reasons, with the underlying dynamics of our business.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Just a couple of questions for Ken, maybe. First off, can you walk us through a little bit of the sales and the weakness in the Animal Health business? And your thoughts there on the timing issues and what the underlying trends are in that business that are specific to the Intervet business -- or, sorry, the Merck Animal Health business.

And then separately, for Roger. Roger, can you give us again a little bit of your thoughts on odanacatib? I think at a recent meeting that you held with sell-side analysts you mentioned that you were trying to push to bring a resolution to that program, whether it be a positive or a negative resolution, associated with the ongoing trial for odanacatib. So just wondering if you could provide us with an update there. Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Seamus. I will start with Animal Health. The first thing, as I said, is the underlying fundamentals of the business remain solid despite what we saw this quarter.

As you know, we voluntarily implemented the temporary sales suspension of Zilmax in the United States and Canada to work with our industry partners to provide the data that will reaffirm confidence in Zilmax, which remains an FDA-approved product. It is too early to speculate on when we will resume Zilmax sales in the United States and Canada.

But again, from my perspective we continue to believe that there are favorable macro trends that will help us drive growth in our Animal Health business going forward.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: So, Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, Seamus, with respect to odanacatib, yes; exactly. Just keep in mind -- again, as was announced some time ago -- we have the Data Safety and Monitoring Committee that halted the base study early for robust efficacy and a favorable benefit/risk profile. Those were the words they used.

So we have to take that seriously. We know what is underlying all of this.

The point is, though, that in order to complete the odanacatib study we need to have a full intention-to-treat data set that captures all individuals who were enrolled and exposed to investigational product and provides the basis for adjudication of all effects in those patients. To that end, we have been pursuing that.

We're making very good progress. We will get all of that information tidied up. At that point, I think we are prepared to say -- all right, we have got it in hand; now let's actually look in detail at the benefit/risk profile and know therefore how the drug can be used.

Our expectation is still that we should be in a position to file in 2014, as we had indicated previously. We are continuing along that path, and I think we are making good progress now in getting the last few bits of data from the many, many sites, of course, that were involved in this 16,000-patient study.

OPERATOR: Tin Anderson, Leerink (sic).

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Hi, yes, this is Tim Anderson at Sanford Bernstein. A couple questions, both for Roger.

On your BACE inhibitor program, assuming that the safety trial, the Phase II trial, comes out clean, are you still fully committed to taking that into Phase III development?

The second question is on your PD-1. Still trying to understand the rationale for Merck running a 1,000-patient Phase I trial.

With other companies that are doing similar dose-ranging cohort expansion studies, their studies are at a fraction of this size. So I am wondering why yours would be so big and whether you are hoping that those cohorts could be big enough that you could potentially use this as an early-to-market strategy.

The reason I ask that question is because a couple of times in the past few months you sometimes alluded to the Januvia experience, where you surprised the market by being first to market in the US, when a lot of folks thought another company was ahead of you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Okay, Tim. First of all, on BACE we have a safety run-in study, which is then followed by the Phase III study in individuals with mild to moderate impairment. That study is definitely going forward.

I guess I should just highlight here, the magnitude of the problem is something that we are all aware of. The genetic data supporting the importance of beta-secretase processing of amyloid precursor protein and the production of the Abeta peptide simply couldn't be stronger.

The challenge is to know whether in individuals who have already suffered some degree of neurologic damage, whether inhibition of beta-secretase enhanced the reduction in a-beta production, which we have shown takes place in people in CSF, whether that is meaningful. And I think we all need to know that.

We need to know the answer to that question. It is hugely important for all of us. And I think all of us should have our fingers crossed that it actually works, because there is a desperate need for a new therapy in this area.

And secondly, with respect to PD-1, yes; we do have an over 1,000-patient Phase I trial which was designed to have sub-studies that permit exploration of dose and schedule as well as looking at other tumor types. And we have set it up in exactly that way in order to be able to acquire sufficient data to know exactly how to proceed in registration enabling studies.

It is, of course -- we have a very large number of patients, as you know, that we are now treating with our 3475. The data are coming in. And as we become persuaded that there is something there that would really provide a benefit to people, we will certainly be having those discussions with the agency.

Again, as you know, we have Breakthrough Designation and so we are in a position to have discussions fairly frequently and are certainly doing so. But I can't tell you what that means in terms of our ultimate filing strategy.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Guys, thanks a lot for taking the question. I would love to go back to some remarks that you made, Ken, about -- I don't have the quotes in front of me, earlier on the call, about possibly looking at possibly divesting certain businesses like Animal Health and Consumer. I felt like that was the strongest language you have used to date, and I just want your comments on that. Am I over-reading that?

Then if you were to make a decision on that, would that be something that you could -- do you think you could -- is that a decision that you think could be made in the 2014 time frame? Or as shareholders and analysts should we be thinking about that possibly taking a little bit of a longer time?

Then for Roger if I might, back to the BACE, follow-up to Tim's question. Notice that you started -- or at least you put up on ClinTrials.gov, a large MCI trial. I was wondering if you could talk about the rationale for starting or at least putting that trial up on ClinTrials.gov.

I noticed also in that trial you cut the highest dose. Maybe you could just talk about what we should read into the fact that you cut the highest dose, if anything. Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Thank you, Mark. Let me just say that what I was trying to convey is, just as we are looking across our R&D and commercial portfolio and sharpening our focus on each of the assets there, so too with respect to Animal Health and the Consumer Care. I would say we are currently evaluating those businesses the way we are evaluating everything, to figure out whether those businesses produce the most value inside our portfolio or outside our portfolio.

I did not mean to imply anything whatsoever with respect to timing. But I would say again we are currently evaluating those businesses just as we are sharpening our focus on every aspect of our business.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, Mark, it's Roger. With respect to BACE, there has always been the concern -- and we have discussed it in many different contexts on these calls -- that though beta-secretase inhibition may be enormously useful in delaying the onset of dementia, it may be necessary to go in quite early. And the question is -- when do you go in?

The genetic data says we believe there would be a very strong effect of beta-secretase inhibition if you could start very, very early. But on the other hand, we can't do a 20- or 30-year outcome study.

So the goal is to try and go early enough to make sure that we will see an effect; and hence we had always planned to do a prodromal study. We posted the prodromal study -- it's on ClinicalTrials.gov -- as it is in the planning stage, and we are working to come up with exactly how that will be done.

And I don't think you should read anything more into it than that. But I think we still, I still, regard this as a hugely important program for us and for people around the world.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I am from Citi. Two questions. Firstly, I think, Adam, you said the DPP-4 TRx must grow, Januvia/Janumet franchise must grow. It is doing minus 5 to minus 6 year-on-year right now.

Given the SABER data from one of your competitors, net-net, didn't exactly enhance the outlook for the class, and given the competitive pressures, what is there that is going to drive that growth? Presumably it is not marketing. You have obviously got the SGLT2 combination, but that is still somewhat far off.

Then suddenly, one of your competitors just took their LAG-3 into the [connect] in combination with a PD-1. When should we expect the first combination trials with MK-3475? Particularly if you could reference your intention to take vicriviroc back into the clinic in combination with a PD-1, again, timing. Many thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Andrew, I will discuss first the TRx trend for Januvia. Currently if you look at the IMS data on a weekly basis, we are seeing about a 2% to 2.5% decline in TRx-es. And I would encourage you to focus on the TRx volume, because that is what is most closely correlated to overall sales.

What I am trying to say is that in order for us to grow for next year what we have to do is see a change in that volume. If that volume continues to decline, obviously it is going to be a problem for us to grow.

I do think there are some things that we are doing right now in order to help us find ways to grow, and I will give you a few examples.

Number one, we have spent a lot of our time defending our market share versus competition; and I think we have done a very good job of defending our market share. I think you can see that by the fact that in the United States we have well over 70% share, closer to 75% share of the DPP-4 class.

What we have not been able to do is to get the class to grow by moving patients from sulfonylureas, or to use DPP-4s prior to sulfonylureas. I think that our sales forces have been distracted by focusing on market share. We now have representatives that are solely dedicated to focusing on market growth and trying to move share from sulfonylureas to Januvia, and I think that should help us.

In addition to that, we have seen the impact of the new competitors. I think for the most part they've begun to level off, so I think that now we can start to focus again away from market share and more on market growth.

With regard to the outcomes trials I think that any positive outcomes trials in the DPP-4 class should be helpful to the entire class. As you may recall our TECOS study will read out at the end of 2014.

The other thing that we have in the horizon is MK-3102, which I believe will be a very important compound and potentially could have people start on a DPP-4 even earlier than they do today.

Then you also mentioned that we have an SGLT2 as well as an SGLT2 combination with Januvia. So I believe the diabetes class is an important one for us today, and it will be important for us in the future.

Today it is about maximizing Januvia and trying to move business from sulfonylureas over to Januvia. In the future, we will be able to have 3102 as well as SGLT2 and an SGLT2 combination.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me just add that, as I said in my comments, we are very focused on strengthening Januvia in the United States for all the reasons that Adam just stated. But it's also to important to remember that we have another set of opportunities in our portfolio including vaccines, immunology, HIV, and others.

So even in a quarter where we actually had less than positive growth in the US for Januvia we are still able to grow 4% GHH portfolio. So I just want to make sure that we are also focused as a Company and ask others to remember that we have multiple things in our broad portfolio.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, think that is an important note, Ken. As we continue to focus on Januvia, of course we will find ways to ensure that we are maximizing the potential in the vaccine business, which showed very significant growth this quarter, to maximize Remicade and Simponi and the other products in the portfolio.

So I want to assure you that although we have significant focus on Januvia, we are also focusing on our other growth drivers. Because I think that those enable us to show things like 7% underlying growth in the US when you adjust for the patent expiries, and it allows us to grow 4% on a global basis.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Andrew, at a high level, first of all, the expectation is that having demonstrated that there is activity for 3475, that we want to look at combinations with conventional chemotherapies, and some of that is already underway; with targeted chemotherapies, more novel targeted chemotherapies; combinations with other immunomodulators; and then other novel agents that are active in relevant tumor types where we know that 3475 has some evidence of an effect.

Now, you should expect that you are going to see a number of those combinations getting posted very soon. In particular as I have indicated before on prior calls, we have had a group working in the background before PD-1 actually on the sets of immunoregulatory molecules on the lymphocyte cell surface that could potentially be important in responses. And a lot of that is coming to fruition and is right now in studies that are enabling for entry into humans.

So I would expect all of those things to be coming forward at more or less the same time, early on in 2014. And that is when you should expect to start seeing a lot of those combinations come.

There is an enormous amount of work to be done. And more or less to the point that Ken made, we are going to be studying this molecule and how best to use it for a very, very long time because it is responsive in a lot of tumor types. So there is a huge amount of work to be done here to find out how best to use 3475 and to bring the benefits of this therapy to patients who so desperately need it.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. I have two questions. First on Animal Health, I understand that cattle was weak due to the recall of Zilmax. But is there any way that you can break out Merck's growth in cattle excluding Zilmax?

Then second, for Dr. Perlmutter, could you please provide an update on MK-1293, your insulin glargine me-too that was moving into late-stage testing recently? Are you moving that forward, or divesting it?

Also, maybe you could just comment on the insulin facility that you recently completed building in Virginia and whether that will be moved forward or divested. Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: On Animal Health, let me start with Animal Health. Zilmax was a major issue. I would also say that across-the-board this quarter it wasn't the strongest quarter.

But I'd come back to the point that I made before, which is that there are favorable macro trends for these businesses and we continue to expect very good growth going forward. Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes. David, with respect to our programs, we have been looking at a variety of different ways to assist in the therapy of patients with diabetes. We haven't disclosed any information about how we might move forward in that area, so I really don't have any comments about that.

I wonder if you were thinking about our recently approved vaccine production facility. But in any case, we will have more information for you on advancing our diabetes franchise and therapy for diabetic patients in the future.

KEN FRAZIER: I should also point out on the Animal Health that this quarter we had plus-2% growth overall, if you adjust for exchange, etc.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking the questions. My first one is on the autoimmune franchise; it seems like you had a nice quarter there.

My question is really around the future and what impact do you think biosimilars might have, especially once we get into 2015. And I guess specifically it is on the impact to Remicade a biosimilar might have on Remicade, but also on a related product like Simponi.

Then the second one is on hepatitis C. Obviously, positive news you have gotten there from the FDA, and the data does look good.

Just wondering if there is other answers you are going to need. We have to wait, obviously, for the data, but just in terms of other answers you might need from Phase II; or is this something that might be moving to Phase III quickly?

Is 2017 a reasonable time frame to assume that this might be something that could get to the market? Any color there would be helpful. Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: I will go ahead and take that Remicade and Simponi question. If you look at Remicade and Simponi, we had combined growth of about 16% ex-foreign exchange this quarter, where Remicade was 12%, Simponi was about 40%.

If you look at the Remicade growth, there was some benefit due to timing and tenders. If you exclude that, our growth rate was in the mid single digits.

I also believe that Simponi will represent the strongest growth opportunity, particularly with the UC approval that we had last month, and we are continuing to prepare for launch.

If you look at the biosimilars, we anticipate biosimilars in smaller markets next year. If you look at those markets they represent less than 20% of our current Remicade business.

So we believe that we will continue to be successful overall with Remicade in the markets that are the largest markets, where there won't be biosimilars. And we don't believe that having a biosimilar Remicade should necessarily impact the sales as we move forward with Simponi.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Vamil, with respect to the HCV program, I can't provide explicit timing for you. I would just say, as I mentioned, we have a portfolio of molecules. We have Breakthrough designation, of course, as we have indicated for the combination of 5172 and 8742; but there are other molecules as well.

I think the key is getting to an all-oral pan-genotypic ribavirin-free regimen that is useful in patients irrespective of comorbidities. And that is an important thing to keep in mind, right? Because these patients who have chronic HCV infection are in general elderly patients who have other things going on.

So it would be important that whatever drug cocktails are used in these patients in order to cure them of HCV, that these be things that are tolerable and can be used even with a comorbid situation. So we are focusing on all of that, very excited about where we are in the program, and we are going to move it forward just as quickly as we can.

KEN FRAZIER: Can I make a correction? In response to Dave Risinger's question, I think I said that the Animal Health sales was 2%, ex-exchange. It is ex-exchange and it is also excluding Zilmax.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. First question for Ken. As you look back and reflect on your 2013 plan and the pushes and pulls there, what are some of the things that you really like that materialized? And then what are some of those things that you saw in the 2013 plan that could have been done better for the 2014 planning process?

And then a question for Roger Perlmutter. If you look at Merck's regulatory track record historically, the Company has had an impeccable regulatory track record.

But if you look at the last seven programs that you put into registration, you received three Complete Response Letters including a request for additional data. Very uncharacteristic of the Company.

What are you doing going forward to help improve that to basically your standard, which was an impeccable track record, especially in light of the new products that you are putting into clinical development?

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. Why don't I start with the 2013 plan issues? I would start to say the things that I guess were the most negative things versus assumptions, obviously Januvia US growth we had hoped would be stronger. Also, the impact of our hepatitis C category in terms of Victrelis's growth and PegIntron's growth, given warehousing of patients, were things which we wish had gone better.

On the other hand, I think in a year of patent expiries being able to continue to drive underlying growth in vaccines, immunology, HIV, are all important. Geographically, continuing to be in the emerging markets and doing well in the emerging markets year to date, I think is also a very positive thing.

The bigger things that make me excited though is I have to look past any particular quarter. And when you see things like the Breakthrough designations for our anti-PD-1 and for our HCV program, those are things that I think are the most important to the Company going forward and those are the areas where we want to continue to be focused, where we can drive the greatest amount of growth going forward.

PETER KELLOGG: If I can add to that, Ken, the one thing that I would add also is that in 2013 we just saw an exceptionally strong impact from the Japanese yen ForEx. We just probably didn't see that coming quite as much, and that is what caused us to -- that, combined with the devaluation in Venezuela, caused us to change our guidance earlier this year.

But again I think against that and some of comments, points you had, we have had a very proactive cost management response. So that basically I think that is something we are now set up for as we go forward into 2014 to continue to manage well in this environment.

And the foreign exchange rates have stabilized. The euro has come back a little bit. So we will have to watch that. Obviously, Venezuela continues to be a topic that we will all have to watch as we go forward in all years going forward.

But in general, I think that we shouldn't miss how big the impact was with the yen and the Venezuelan devaluation this year.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, John, I have to say that I think that you -- it is the case that I am not happy with where we stand in terms of how our organization has been able to deliver documents that meet regulatory guidelines. I just am really not happy with that.

And as a result, I have been leaning into this process very, very heavily. There is no single explanation for what has gone on over the last few years.

First of all, of course there are issues with respect to study design. The complexity in study design always makes it challenging to deliver data sets that are interpretable on first pass.

There are also issues related to study execution. There are complexities associated with this.

And then there is the fact that there have been many studies that have been large outcome studies, and those have their own challenges associated with them. Suffice it to say that there are a number of issues that I have identified and that we are working to correct.

We are doing a lot to improve the management of our safety data and our good clinical practice approach. I am very pleased that we have a new head of global safety who will be joining us next month. We also are bringing in some additional people to shore this up.

I am confident that we can get to a point where we and the FDA can work together in a way to bring files forward that pass muster right from the beginning, and that is my goal.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much. Roger, just on 3475, tomorrow there will be some data presented in Sydney, and I am just curious. What should we be mindful of looking at, given it is a Phase I trial?

Second, the SMR conference is in November. Again, would you mind making some statements about what we should be mindful of that Merck will present at that point?

Then finally, will there be other data readouts between now and ASCO where Merck may present top-line data? Thank you very much.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, Tony, so with respect to the 3475 lung cancer data, again it is a small data set, but I think that what we are learning, as is plain from the abstract and as you will see is that there clearly is evidence of response. And looking at the nuances of those responses -- in particular whether or not there are characteristics of patients that have predictive value with respect to response -- I think that could prove to be very important; and certainly I would look at that.

We're going to have more data that will be coming out at all the major scientific meetings including SMR. AACR is going on, I believe in February, and there will be more data presented there before ASCO too. So we have a lot of studies going on and we will have the opportunity to make sure that in the appropriate scientific forums we present data that place 3475 therapy in the context of what can be done for patients with a widely disseminated malignant disease.

JOSEPH ROMANELLI: Great. Thank you, Tony. Andrea, I think we have time for just one more caller.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks very much. Just had a couple questions here.

Maybe the first one for Ken, just coming back to strategic alternatives on Animal Health and Consumer. When you talk about evaluating whether it is more advantageous for these businesses to be part of Merck or not, can you just help us understand? Is that decision based on whether these businesses could operationally perform better inside or outside of Merck, or whether these businesses would be worth more or be more valuable to shareholders inside or outside of Merck?

My second question was on PD-1. It just was two questions. Maybe the first one in lung, can you just elaborate a little bit more about how you are thinking about PD-L1 status and the role that is going to play in the development of the category? I think there has been some debate on this topic given some of the responses in PD-L1-negative patients we have seen in some studies.

My second question was, when we think about additional tumors beyond melanoma and lung that you are looking at, what are you most excited about there? And What does the science suggest in terms of likelihood of success relative to some of the initial tumors where we have seen activity so far?

I'm just trying to understand, again, when you look at those additional areas you are looking, which ones should we really be focused in on? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: So, Chris, first with respect to your question about Animal Health and Consumer, whether it is the operational issues or the value to shareholders, it is both. At the end of the day, our goal is to maximize long-term cash flow for our shareholders; and we are looking at these businesses like we do everything else versus other opportunities that would allow us to drive that long-term cash flow.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Chris, it's Roger. For PD-L1, first of all I think we know already, as is typical in malignant disease, that PD-L1 is not an exclusive biomarker. Right? It is not the case that only those individuals whose tumors have expressed PD-L1 are going to be responsive.

And hence there is a reason, depending upon the magnitude of the response and the degree of the adverse effects, to think about treating with PD-1 even in those who are PD-L1-negative. The question is -- what is the correlation, and does it differ from one tumor type to the other, and can you use it as a way to begin to focus your attention on different patient subsets?

I think more data are coming out on that. I think there will be more data that will be available coming up at the lung cancer meetings and then at meetings after that. So that is a useful thing to look at.

The second thing is when you think about where else to go with PD-1, one of the advantages of having a 1,000-patient Phase I study that focuses on many groups, but including all epithelial tumors, is that we have a chance to look at individuals in whom we see evidence of a response and ask -- can we tell from that whether there might be subsets of patients who would really benefit?

And from that we roll out more focused studies. That is what we are doing, and you will have a chance to see those data.

As I indicated there is now quite a number of different tumors that we are exploring directly. We have announced previously that we are doing work in triple-negative breast, for example, and head and neck cancer and uroepithelial tumors. In all of these areas we have found evidence for a therapeutic effect.

The question is -- how good is it? How do you use this drug in combination with others? There is a lot of work to be done here.

But, I would just say from my perspective the breadth of responsiveness is quite impressive and suggests that we could have a very, very active agent here that would prove to be useful in a number of different settings.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. Let me just close by saying this was another solid quarter driven by vaccines, immunology, and HIV businesses going forward. I have to say that none of us are pleased with the Januvia performance in the United States and we are going to continue to focus our efforts and our investments on making Januvia in the US stronger going forward.

We are obviously focusing on reducing costs, but reducing them in a way that doesn't compromise this Company's long-term ability to do that which is here to do, which is to do the innovation that actually makes a huge difference to patients and payers and to society in general.

In that regard, we are very pleased with the Breakthrough designation that we got for our HCV regimen. We are also very excited and hopeful about the interim lung data for anti-PD-1 as well as the future for this therapy going forward.

So in the end, I would say that we continue to plug on here at Merck. We are hoping to drive greater growth as we go forward, and we are very much focused on our pipeline as the main means for doing that, both our internal pipeline as well as a reinvigorated approach to business development.

Thank you very much and look forward to speaking to you soon.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
iinsulin : Diabetes Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty : Drugs/Medication | ihormp : Hormone Products
   NS
c133 : Patents | c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | gdias : Diabetes | ntra : Transcripts | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131030e9as0015q
  


 HD
 Q2  2013  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,905 words
   PD
30 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Andrea and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Merck second-quarter 2013 earnings call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
I would like to now turn the call over to your host, Joe Romanelli. You may begin your conference.

JOE ROMANELLI, IR, MERCK & CO.: Thank you, Andrea, and good morning, everyone. We would also like to say good afternoon and good evening to everyone listening outside the United States. Welcome to Merck's second-quarter 2013 conference call.

Before I turn the call over to Ken, I want to point out just a couple of items. First, there are a number of items in the GAAP results such as acquisition related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded those items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables and you can see this in our press release in table 2. This will give you a better sense of the underlying performance of the business.

There are three tables in the press release. The first table is the GAAP results; table 2 reconciles our GAAP P&L to the non-GAAP results for the second quarter; and table 3 provides the sales performance for the Company's business units and our products both on a reported basis and excluding exchange.

During the call, we will refer to table 2 when we discuss the P&L and table 3 when we talk about revenue performance.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon Merck's current beliefs of management and are subject to significant risk and uncertainties. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

The company's SEC filings including Item 1A in the 2012 10-K identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings can be found on the website at Merck.com. You can also find our earnings release and all the tables there as well.

So with that this morning I am joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Schechter, our President of Global Human Health, who will update you on our product and geographic performance; Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer, who will review our P&L and provide an update on our outlook for 2013; and lastly, Roger Perlmutter, our President of Merck Research Labs, who will provide you with an update on some of our key programs.

With that I would like to introduce Ken Frazier. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, MERCK & CO.: Thank you, Joe. Good morning, everyone. It is a pleasure to be here again today to provide an update on our performance and to highlight some of the key events from the quarter.

We continue to focus on our core strategy. In so doing, we will build shareholder value by prioritizing investments in our best commercial growth opportunities with key in-line products and in innovative R&D.

Second, making disciplined decisions regarding the allocation of resources and managing our costs effectively. This approach is especially critical in a period when we are navigating significant patent expirations and adapting to the global healthcare environment.

This quarter our business momentum accelerated while we continued to manage our costs. We believe these results more accurately reflect the strength of our underlying portfolio when compared to the first quarter of this year. We are still working hard to improve the competitive position and growth potential of key brands like JANUVIA which will allow us to drive our topline growth in the future.

In addition, we continue to manage our expenses and are maintaining our EPS guidance for the year. Peter Kellogg will provide more detail on our revenue and cost assumptions.

For the quarter, we delivered an EPS of $0.84. This reflected underlying sales growth of 3% excluding the impact of foreign exchange and patent expiries. The growth was driven primarily by our Global Human Health business including strong performance from our diabetes, immunology and vaccines franchises. In total, seven of our top 10 products grew in the second quarter. As always, Adam will provide more detail on specific product performance.

The fundamentals of our complementary businesses, Animal Health and Consumer Care, remain strong. We continue to view these businesses as important components of our diverse portfolio.

In terms of geographic performance, we grew 10% in emerging markets in the second quarter, excluding exchange. In the past several months, I have had the opportunity to visit Brazil and Korea to see firsthand both the tremendous potential of these markets and the extraordinary enthusiasm of the MSD colleagues there. In Korea for example, our diabetes and vaccine businesses are performing particularly well.

The emerging markets now account for approximately 22% of our pharmaceutical sales with China continuing as a key growth driver.

Moving to the longer term view, we remain committed to pursuing innovative science that translates into medically important products. To sustain our ability to do so however, we are mindful that we must continue to find ways to improve our cash flow and build shareholder value over both the short and long term, a commitment we also take very seriously.

One way we demonstrate our commitment to building value in the short term is by returning cash to shareholders. Year to date, we have returned nearly $9 billion to shareholders through both our dividend and stock buyback. We have repurchased over 120 million shares including our accelerated share repurchase in May.

Longer-term shareholder value is of course driven by innovative R&D and improving the return on R&D investment. Roger will share his views in a moment but I would like to comment on why we believe innovation is the path to sustainable value and needs to remain the cornerstone of Merck's efforts despite challenges like the recent suvorexant and sugammadex delays.

There is an increasing need for innovative treatments that offer meaningful differentiation to patients and demonstrate value to payers. This is true for chronic diseases like diabetes but also in areas of tremendous scientific opportunities such as cancer amino therapies and neuroscience.

I am excited about the programs like our anti-PD-1 for oncology and our base inhibitor for Alzheimer's disease that have the potential to alter the course of medicine. With the opportunities we see before us, I want to be clear that we intend to aggressively manage our costs in the short term and our fundamental cost base over the long term. We need to do this in order to preserve our ability to invest in our future and have the flexibility to respond to the opportunities and challenges presented by the global healthcare environment.

In the second quarter, we continued to take out costs and prioritize our investments. We are doing this while supporting future growth in core brands and in the pipeline. Let me share two examples.

First, with JANUVIA, we continue making the necessary investments behind this franchise to ensure that we maintain our leadership position in the increasingly competitive diabetes market and maximize opportunities for future growth.

Second, with PD-1, we have created a strong expert team with streamlined decision-making. We are committed to making clinical investments to ensure that we fully realize the potential of this important product and bring it to patients as quickly as possible.

In summary, we are committed to driving topline performance with key growth products in key geographies, advancing and augmenting our pipelines and aggressively managing our cost base. By doing these things well, we will preserve the ability to invest in our future, continue to generate strong cash flow and drive shareholder value and return over both the short and long term.

I would like to now turn the call over to my colleague, Adam Schechter. Adam?

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP AND PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HEALTH, MERCK & CO.: Thank you, Ken. Good morning, everyone. This morning I will focus my remarks on the performance of our core products and our core markets.

Let me begin with our overall performance. Human Health sales declined 12% in the second quarter. Our topline results continued to reflect the loss of exclusivity of SINGULAIR, PROPECIA, CLARINEX and MAXALT and weakness in the yen. Excluding sales from these products, our underlying business grew 4% on a constant currency basis. Key contributors were JANUVIA and JANUMET, SIMPONI and our vaccine business. So let me provide some more details.

I will start with the JANUVIA and JANUMET franchise. The franchise had sales of $1.5 billion and 10% growth excluding exchange. The franchise grew 9% in the United States and 11% in international markets. In the United States, demand, price and inventory contributed to growth.

With regard to demand, we were able to maintain a 75% TRX share of the very competitive DPP-4 market. Volume grew slightly by about 1% this quarter.

Regarding price, we did see a benefit this quarter from price. We have increased price over the last year but we have also seen increased rebate and pricing pressures as competitors seek to improve their formulary positions by increasing discounts.

Finally on inventory. Our customers increased their inventory levels by about $30 million in the second quarter. If we excluded this inventory benefit, we believe our sales would have grown by of about 5% in the United States, in line with our expectations.

In international markets, JANUVIA and JANUMET had good volume growth in every region around the world and maintained market leadership with a 70% global market share.

Now let me touch on our outlook for the rest of the year. We continue to expect mid single-digit sales growth in the United States which excludes channel movements that are difficult to predict. We also continue to expect low double-digit growth excluding exchange internationally.

In the United States, we continue to invest to change the current TRX trend. We have focused our resources on JANUVIA to drive demand and to defend our strong leadership position in a highly competitive market. Globally there continues to be good growth opportunities in the diabetes market and we are positioned well with the market-leading DPP-4 inhibitor.

So moving now to ISENTRESS. ISENTRESS sales were $410 million which represents about 5% growth. In the United States, we are maintaining our patients there despite new competition. Outside of the US, ISENTRESS continues to have good volume growth offset partially by pricing pressure in Europe and timing of emerging market purchases this quarter.

In our cholesterol franchise at ZETIA and VYTORIN global sales were up by about 1% over the prior year. ZETIA growth was partially offset by a decline in VYTORIN sales. We are currently launching LIPTRUZET, the combination of ZETIA plus atorvastatin in the US. This product reinforces the benefit that this family of products can provide to many patients who continue to have high LDL cholesterol despite the wide use of statins.

Moving to immunology, the combined immunology business consisting of REMICADE and SIMPONI grew 11% in the quarter excluding exchange. The growth was driven mostly by SIMPONI. Sales of SIMPONI grew 60% to $120 million this quarter. We are continuing to see a positive impact from the launch in France and a reintroduction of the auto injector in Germany. Last week we received a positive CHMP decision for an additional indication in ulcerative colitis and we look forward to the potential approval later this year.

Moving to VICTRELIS with global sales of $116 million this quarter, growth in emerging markets was offset by continued contraction of the hepatitis C market in many countries including the United States.

Lastly moving to our vaccines business which had another strong quarter, GARDASIL maintained its strong performance with 20% growth year-over-year. Second-quarter sales benefited from continued uptake of the male indication in the United States and timing of government purchases in Latin America. Those are partially offset by lower sales in Japan.

In Japan, the government recently suspended the proactive recommendation of HPV vaccines. We anticipate this decision will have a significant negative impact on the rest of year's sales for GARDASIL in Japan. For reference, sales of GARDASIL were $140 million in Japan last year. We are working with and we are providing information to the government on the vast amount of safety and efficacy data available for GARDASIL.

On the other hand, we are pleased that the Minister of Health in Brazil recently announced a national immunization program with GARDASIL to begin in 2014.

Moving on to ZOSTAVAX, ZOSTAVAX sales were $140 million this quarter. As we had expected, sales in the United States declined sequentially due to seasonality. We expect the second half of the year to be stronger than the first half and the strongest quarter will likely depend on the start of the flu vaccination season.

We continue to see ZOSTAVAX as a key growth driver. In the United States, we estimate that a little over 20% of the population ages 60 and older have received a vaccine to date so there remains opportunity for growth.

Internationally, we are just beginning launches in a few Asian markets including Korea and we continue to anticipate our first European launch in the UK this fall with additional markets in 2014.

Now I would like to touch on our performance on a regional level. In the United States, Europe and Canada, sales continued to be affected by the loss of exclusivity of SINGULAIR, MAXALT, PROPECIA and CLARINEX. Excluding these products, US sales increased by 7% and sales in Europe and Canada were flat in the second quarter.

Japan sales declined 4% ex-exchange. That was due to an increase in the utilization of generic versus branded products and lower sales of GARDASIL which I mentioned earlier.

Emerging markets had another good quarter with 10% ex-exchange sales growth. That included 10% growth in China. Growth in the emerging markets was broad-based. It came from our base business, our new products and our joint ventures. In key emerging markets, our growth is at or outpacing the overall market and we expect to continue to deliver strong growth in 2013.

In closing, the Human Health business demonstrated growth of our underlying portfolio of key brands. In August we will annualize the SINGULAIR expiry in the United States but we also anticipate generic entry in the United States for TEMODAR. Despite the significant number of patent expiries we are facing this year, I am confident that we can drive growth of our strong and our diverse portfolio.

Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP AND CFO, MERCK & CO.: Thank you, Adam, and good morning. As you heard from Ken and Adam, our core brands performed well this quarter. Furthermore, we continued to manage costs effectively while investing for future growth. Additionally, we executed a significant capital initiative in the quarter. Our confidence in our future cash flows and the historically low cost of debt allowed us to return cash to shareholders in the form of a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase.

This accelerated repurchase is a key component of our goal to buy back $7.5 billion of shares within the first 12 months of our $15 billion repurchase program announced in May. These results and actions demonstrate that Merck is committed to improving our performance in the short term, investing for the long term and continuing to allocate capital in a shareholder friendly manner.

This morning I will briefly talk about our performance in the second quarter and I will discuss our outlook for the remainder of 2013. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials.

Starting on the bottom line, we earned $0.84 per share this quarter compared to $1.05 in the prior year. On the top line, total Company sales declined 8% in the second quarter excluding an unfavorable exchange impact of 3%. As Adam said, sales increased 4% in our pharmaceutical business if you exclude generic erosion and foreign exchange.

Animal Health sales increased 1% year-over-year excluding exchange driven by companion animal and poultry businesses.

In Consumer Health, we had a one-time unfavorable adjustment to sales this quarter. Excluding this adjustment, Consumer Health sales would have been up 4% on a constant currency basis.

Moving to other revenues, we saw an increase in supply sales to AstraZeneca in the second quarter. Despite this we continue to expect that supply sales will decrease as we approach the May 2014 US patent expiration for Nexium.

At the PGM line as previously discussed, generic erosion of high gross margin products also created a 2.5% headwind on the gross margin this quarter. As a result, our non-GAAP gross margin declined on a year-over-year basis to 75.7%. As we indicated previously, we expect the full-year gross margin ratio to be about 1% lower than 2012 due to this mix shift in our sales.

Turning to marketing and administrative expenses, our second-quarter SG&A expenses were about $60 million lower year-over-year. Excluding foreign exchange benefits and some one-time corporate charges, we reduced our SG&A spending by about $100 million this quarter. Similar to last quarter, we continued to proactively reduce spending. As a result of our cost reductions, we continue to expect SG&A spending in 2013 will be lower than 2012.

Moving on to R&D, research and development expenses in the second quarter were $144 million lower than prior year. However, recall that last year we had a significant upfront payment of $120 million for our agreement with Endocyte. Excluding this, R&D expense would have been relatively flat.

Other income and expense was about $100 million higher year-over-year primarily as a result of foreign exchange losses and interest expense. In the month of May, we concluded a $6.5 billion debt offering at a blended average interest rate of less than 2%. This debt offering funded our accelerated share repurchase and we now have new interest expense and lower shares outstanding.

Moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 21.9% in the second quarter. We are maintaining our estimated full-year tax rate to be in the range of 22% to 23%. The tax rate for the second half of the year will be considerably higher compared to the rate in the first two quarters.

Now turning to the 2013 outlook. On the bottom line, we are reconfirming our 2013 non-GAAP EPS guidance range of $3.45 to $3.55. On a GAAP basis, we expect to earn between $1.84 and $2.05.

Now for additional color on the outlook for the rest of the year, let's start with revenue. During the second quarter, the US dollar continued to strengthen against many global currencies. If today's foreign exchange rates persist, we would expect full-year 2013 sales to be negatively affected by about 3 percentage points which is greater than we had previously anticipated.

Given our performance in the first half of 2013, the continued strength of the US dollar, and select product trends, we have adjusted our full-year revenue expectations. We now anticipate that total Company revenue will be 5% to 6% below 2012 including the negative impact of foreign exchange. While we have adjusted our sales guidance, we are maintaining our EPS guidance through cost management in SG&A and R&D. Accordingly, we now expect R&D expenses in 2013 to be lower than 2012.

Moving to the quarters as we think about the back half of the year, we see improvement in EPS performance compared to the first half of the year. Additionally, we anticipate that the fourth quarter will be higher than the third quarter from an EPS perspective.

So in conclusion, this was a solid quarter where we successfully executed a major capital initiative to return cash to shareholders. We also drove growth in our key brands while managing costs and we continued to step up our efforts on our key R&D programs.

Thank you. Now I will turn the call over to Roger who will provide an update on MRL. Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER, PRESIDENT, MERCK RESEARCH LABS, MERCK & CO.: Thanks, Peter. During the second quarter, we made steady progress in clarifying the registration process for Merck's next wave of products and advanced our clinical trials in important areas. For suvorexant, our first-in-class orexin antagonist for the treatment of insomnia, the FDA has provided a clear path to registration through their complete response letter which we received at the end of the quarter.

We're making good progress in preparing 10 milligram and 5 milligram suvorexant dosage forms to enable initiation of therapy at lower starting doses which was the principal change requested in the FDA's review. We hope to be able to begin stability testing of these materials in the very near future with a goal of submitting definitive data in response to FDA's requests in the first half of 2014.

As was demonstrated at the FDA Advisory Committee review in May, suvorexant has distinctive therapeutic properties which we believe will enable it to become an important treatment for patients suffering from insomnia.

Turning to other regulatory actions, two weeks ago we announced that the FDA had postponed its Advisory Committee review of sugammadex, our parental agent for the rapid reversal of certain types of neuromuscular blockade during surgery. This delay will enable the FDA to complete audits of certain US and European study sites that were involved in generating data contained in our submission. We are working closely with the FDA to facilitate these audits and we will have more to say about the registration timeline for sugammadex once the FDA has completed this review.

As you know, sugammadex is already registered and more than 40 markets around the world.

Also during the second quarter, we had the opportunity to present encouraging data on MK-3475, our monoclonal antibody directed against PD-1 for the treatment of malignant melanoma at the American Society for Clinical Oncology meeting in Chicago. This immunomodulatory approach to the treatment of malignant disease is also under study in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. We hope to present preliminary results observed in such patients in October at the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer meeting in Sydney.

Our data thus far have encouraged us to begin a Phase II/III study in non-small cell lung cancer for which enrollment is just beginning. We are also continuing to study responses in patients with other malignancies where we believe treatment with MK-3475 may be beneficial by itself or in combination.

New studies have recently begun in patients with hormone receptor negative breast cancer, uroepithelial tumors, head and neck cancer, and in certain patients suffering from colorectal cancer. In the preliminary presentations at the ASCO meetings in Chicago, it was noted that immunomodulatory agents offer great promise for the treatment of desperately ill patients suffering from malignant disease.

Our portfolio includes not only MK-3475 but other immunomodulatory agents which have emerged following a systematic evaluation of cell surface proteins involved in immune regulation. With respect to MK-3475, you will recall that we have received breakthrough designation from the FDA for this therapy and we are in very close communication with the agency regarding requirements for an evaluable data set in the setting of advanced melanoma.

Meanwhile our MK-8931 program, a small molecule inhibitor beta-secretase for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease continues to enroll patients in advance of a safety review which we believe will complete at the very end of this year. Satisfactory completion of this review will permit expansion of the study for formal efficacy testing. In this pivotal study, patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease will be evaluated for the effect of MK-8931 on cognitive performance and activities of daily living following 78 weeks of treatment as compared to placebo.

Finally, during my first three months in this role at Merck, I have found much to be proud of in terms of the quality of our programs and our people. However, I see the clear need for changes that will strengthen the return on investment in R&D. My review has focused on each critical area of performance -- programs, processes and people, and I have begun to make adjustments along each dimension.

From the programmatic point of view, we are moving to narrow our focus to make certain that products with unambiguous clinically meaningful advantages receive our complete attention.

With respect to process, the governance structure has been flattened considerably removing some layers of decision-making. Much has already been achieved here but more will be required to improve our efficiency in providing resources to leading projects.

Finally with respect to people, we are moving quickly to build our leadership in R&D. I have specifically brought our licensing business development function into my senior leadership area. As for all large biopharmaceutical companies, licensing plays a key role in the development of breakthrough therapies. I expect Merck to participate fully in this area.

Additional details of our revised R&D strategy will be the subject of future reviews. I am very much looking forward to sharing this information with you. Ken?

JOE ROMANELLI: Okay. So thank you, Roger, and thank you Andrea. Before we move into Q&A, just to remind you that we're going to try to get through as many questions as possible if you could keep your questions to one or two and if you have additional questions if you could rejoin the queue, this way we can get to as many callers as possible.

So, Andrea, if you could go ahead and open up the first line for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. A couple of things. First, can you comment a little more about Animal Health and Consumer? Both areas seem to be a little weak even Consumer excluding that one-time change you made? You talked about additional products for immunotherapy. Can you talk about how quickly you can get those into demand?

And then R&D, can you talk about some of the changes that allowed you to take spending down for the quarter? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me start with the Animal Health and Consumer questions. So I would say that overall reflecting on this quarter, it was an okay quarter for those businesses but if you step back, you will see that they grew low single digits and as we looked back beyond this quarter, we think both are performing well. So I would not let one quarter be the answer for those two businesses. As I said, we continue to think of them as being complementary businesses that will help us over the longer term contributing to our top- and bottom-line growth.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Thank you, Ken. I would add, I think in the Animal Health business, they are in the middle of rolling out the ACTIVYL product line which we are very excited about as well as ZUPREVO. And I think I would remind you that last year in the second quarter, we actually has some very strong performance as we picked up some business where there were out of stocks with some of our competitors. So we are probably in the Animal Health business lapping a pretty strong prior-year.

For your other questions maybe I will pass it over to Roger.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So just, Marc, just a couple of things. With respect to the immunomodulatory agents, there is a whole set of different cell surface molecules that are involved as checkpoint regulators if you will that control the response of T lymphocytes to a stimulus. And we have had the opportunity to inventory these to develop antibodies directed against a whole set of them and to look at them and preclinical studies. We hope to be advancing those into the clinic relatively soon. You will see them come up on clinicaltrials.gov and I will have more to say on them in subsequent quarters.

With respect to expense, there is no single category of expense control that we can point to but there are a whole variety of things that I have been able to do in terms of reassigning resources and in that process have pulled back on some of the spending levers which enabled us to reduce our expense now and will going forward as well.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks very much. Just had two questions. The first is on JANUVIA, obviously we saw a rebound in reported 2Q growth but it looks like prescription volume growth at least in the US is still fairly low. I guess my question is do you believe you are seeing a benefit from the additional resources you put on the franchise earlier this year? And maybe more broadly, talk about the overall DPP-4 market at this point. I guess as we start to annualize the TCD benefit, do you believe you can re-accelerate growth for this category?

My second question was just coming back to some of the comments that Roger had made about the licensing of assets. I guess in thinking a little bit more, should we think of this as a greater focus on M&A from Merck that we have seen in the past and is that focus more in early stage assets or are those for the achieved proof of concept? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. Let me start with the second one first. I would just say that for us when we think about capital allocation strategy, one of the most important things as Roger said is to augment the pipeline and that means looking for the best technology that we can find, the best opportunities we can find that are value creating opportunities and that will remain a major priority. And I know for Roger, it is even a greater priority. So why don't I turn it over to Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Chris, just let me emphasize as I think I did at the first-quarter earnings call that I am really interested and really focused on products and so it is to me less important that we consider the stage and more important that we consider what is the potential value of this new therapeutic entry? Does it have unambiguous meaningful clinical impact that can change the practice of medicine and bring important benefits to patients suffering from grievous illness? That is the critical point and I am prepared to go after those wherever those exist and I know Ken and Adam and Peter are completely on board with that.

KEN FRAZIER: And with respect to your JANUVIA question, I will turn it over to Adam. But again, we are pleased that we saw the product perform better this quarter versus the first quarter. We think it is rebounding and we are continuing to provide tremendous support behind it. So with that, I will turn it over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Let me give you some additional context in the US and I will also give you a little bit more color outside the US and how we think about it outside the US.

So as I discussed in the US, we had 9% growth and I tried to give you some context of that by breaking it down where we had 1% that with volume, 4% was inventory and the rest was price. The real key is changing the TRX trend and that is what we are frankly focused on.

The real issue, Chris, is that we have a 75% market share in the US despite a very significant number of competitors. So it is not about trying to gain more market share. It is really about getting sulfonylurea over into DPP-4s of which we are the lion's share.

Typically with multiple new entrants in a market you see a lot of class growth. We don't see a lot of class growth despite all of the new competitors that have come into the marketplace. So the way for us to change the trend is really to focus on the switch from sulfonylureas and sulfonylureas still represent about 35% of the patient days of therapy. So there is still a big opportunity there for us to go after.

So what we have done is we have increased our focus. We now have dedicated salesforce and they are out there, they are promoting, they are engaged. In addition to that, we have increased our promotion spending and our print direct to consumer advertising. All of our focus now is on the Sulfonylurea utilization. Up until the first quarter this year, most of our focus was on the TVD opportunity that is no longer there. So it really is about sulfonylureas.

The good news is that we have maintained our strong managed care access in the US so we have access to our product in over 80% of the patients we have preferred access and now it really is about executing on the sulfonylureas strategy in the United States.

Outside the United States, we still have a very significant opportunity and every region outside the US had strong volume growth. The one thing I think is important that although we had 11% growth ex-FX, the big difference between ex-FX and FX was the yen.

We have a very significant amount of our sales in Japan for JANUVIA. In Japan you may recall the DPP-4 class is the number one class of oral diabetics in Japan. It is ahead of metformin, it is ahead of sulfonylureas and we have by far the leading market share.

At the same time every other quarter we get supply sales from our comarketing partner which happened this quarter. So when you look at our success in Japan plus the supply sales coming in lumpy, you can see how the yen would have a very significant impact on our sales when you don't expect adjust for exchange. That is the difference primarily for the underlying business performance being very strong with what you see including foreign exchange.

Outside the US, we continue to anticipate low double-digit growth and we see that we are getting that in volume and I think the opportunity remains very strong there for us.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: On the new guidance changes, this is the second time this year that you are kind of changing guidance albeit here you are not changing earnings guidance. And the revenue guidance that is weaker is not just foreign exchange which is something that is out of your control. Ken, when you first took over at Merck, you withdrew long-term guidance that was standing at the time. So my question is that kind of a higher level here, what is happening within the Company such that numbers are seeming to move around as much as they are?

Then going back to the outlook for mergers and acquisitions from here, historically Merck did not do big mergers until it did Schering-Plough back in 2009. What is the outlook for M&A from here in terms of deal sizes? Are you going to revert back to really only looking at bolt ons or are you considering midsized targets as well or what exactly?

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks for the question, Tim. Let me just start by saying we of course maintained our EPS guidance and so I want to make that very clear. In terms of what is happening with the sales, you heard Adam talk about the foreign exchange but there also have been during the course of this year, we took on some I think at the beginning some pretty ambitious revenue targets given the fact that we were facing major patent expiries. That is how we tried to deal with the situation last year. That was our undertaking this year.

We have seen some things that have impacted product trends this year including JANUVIA. We have seen the warehousing in HCV just to pick a couple of major growth drivers that we have seen an impact on this year. I want to just underscore that we take our guidance very seriously. During the course of this year as you know, we have seen a negative impact on full-year sales of about 3% for foreign exchange but we have also seen some other impacts that have hit us like this quarter there was a one-time charge for MCC.

And I would also point out that if you look at our overall performance, you can see that we are managing costs in order for us to continue to deliver our bottom-line EPS guidance which again, Tim, I take very seriously.

PETER KELLOGG: On the M&A front so, Tim, you kind of went through the chronology of Merck for a long time haven't done any really big M&A deals I guess and then we did the Schering-Plough deal. I think as we go forward really in many ways we are thinking a lot about the product portfolio in the business we have. I think I would reiterate a lot of what Roger commented on relative to making sure we have breakthrough products and really exciting products. And if that ends up leading us to business development deals or joint ventures or M&A, I think we are comfortable with any of those.

I think as Ken commented earlier, we really do talk about our capital structure as having the number one goal of supporting the strategic needs of the business and so we are certainly always maintaining a position to be able to do that.

That said, we also don't want to build up inefficient balances on the balance sheet so that is why we have had a more proactive capital structure program recently. But in no way does that say that we wouldn't be doing the right things to build the pipeline and we are always on the prowl looking for the right things with great assets that are out there.

KEN FRAZIER: I will just underscore what Peter just said. I think from our standpoint looking for M&A deals that would be sensible value creating bolt-on deals is something that we would be very interested in doing but we have tried to become and remain a very disciplined Company when it comes to paying for assets so that we can actually create shareholder value with them over the longer term.

So deals, the number one priority if we can create value. We have enhanced our share repurchase. We obviously remain committed to our dividend but in the long term, it is products that drive this business and that is why we are going to continue to look for sensible opportunities to augment our pipeline whether it is licensing or bolt-on M&A deals.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Roger, a question for you. Merck issued a press release about a month ago providing a sort of outline on R&D restructuring which involved removing layers of management. Today you are talking about lowering R&D spending for 2013 versus 2012 and narrowing your focus.

Just curious to know if you see this R&D restructuring process as more iterative in nature or should we expect more substantial change ahead involving paring back on your specific therapeutic focuses, meaningful change in the way you allocate capital and R&D. Just wondering if there is more big news to come with respect to what you are doing to improve ROIC and R&D?

Secondly, again on PD-1, just wondering if you can update us on your views on combo studies, where you are with that; if you are seeking to combine your drug with a CTLA4, and when we can expect to see news on that front. Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So, first of all, with respect to R&D structure and to lowering expense, as I indicated, the goal is to focus our very substantial resources on the programs that matter the most and give them our complete attention. There will be a series of changes that take place in order to improve the efficiency of the process. And as that goes forward, of course, we will communicate that to you. But our expectation is not that they are going to be big enormous changes that will be announced in the way that you describe.

With regard to PD-1 we are interested, first of all, of course in delivering on the monotherapy promise in melanoma and in lung cancer. And as you know when we presented these data at ASCO, there are very impressive response rates that we have seen in patients with melanoma who have refractory disease who have failed all prior therapies. And naturally, we want to bring the benefits of that therapeutic intervention to those patients.

At the same time, we also recognize that there will be opportunities to combine immunoregulatory modulators, our anti-PD-1 therapy 3475, with other agents, both our own internally as well as others from other companies. It won't surprise you to know that a lot of companies are interested in working with us on that. We have had discussions with many of them, and we will be talking about these combinations as we announce more results for the PD-1 program.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much. Ken and Peter, while you have reiterated guidance for the full year and I may have missed this, what is the change from Q1 on the GAAP full-year guidance, which I think is down now about a dime?

Then, Roger, on 8931, the safety readout, will that be at a clinical meeting, [CTAB], for example, in November or would you expect that at a press release? Would there be any data coming out on the base inhibitor in the second half? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: I will turn the first question over to Peter but from an operating standpoint, we are reiterating our EPS guidance.

PETER KELLOGG: So in the GAAP P&L, there are some items that we actually exclude from the non-GAAP because they can be lumpy and it goes back to in many cases the restructuring or the merger accounting. Now in this case, we actually do have some adjustments to our R&D intangibles that we actually booked in the second quarter and that is simply looking at either products as well as commercial intangibles I should also highlight.

And so that is all part of the merger accounting. When you go through a major merger, you look at the balance sheet and the items that are coming through and you actually allocate value both to the pipeline in the form of in-process R&D intangibles as well as the commercial products which are intangible commercial assets.

Then on a quarterly basis, we work very closely in monitoring that very accurately in terms of are the expectations of those products all delivering exactly what we thought. And from time to time, something happens in the pipeline perhaps and that causes us to write down and in-process R&D intangible or conversely perhaps the commercial trends aren't quite as robust as we had originally thought and so that would cause us to trigger a write-down or a reduction of the asset value in the intangible for a commercial asset.

So primarily when you look at the change in the EPS at the GAAP level, what you are seeing are some of those evaluations that we go through on a quarterly basis where we actually change the value of intangibles of that is primarily the difference that you see in the GAAP EPS that is incremental to what you see in the non-GAAP.

And Tony, I apologize for getting into that much accounting but that is really what you are seeing.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Tony, with respect to 8931, the structure of the program is that we have an initial phase in which we analyze -- as I said, we enroll and analyze a set of patients over a three-month period. Each patient exposed for three months in order to look at dose ranging and to look at safety tolerability. And based on those results, we then proceed into our large Phase III study.

We believe that we will complete that safety run-in period including the three-month drug exposure by the end of this year. Our hope and belief of course is that safety and tolerability will be expected and we will move on into the large efficacy portion of the trial. If there were any problem of course we would let you know and if we proceed into that, we will let you know about that as well and ultimately those data will be presented in a scientific meeting. So you can expect to hear about it at the beginning of 2014.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Thanks a lot for taking my question. First of all, congratulations to Adam and his team especially on the US JANUVIA and as you know there is probably a lot of consternation around that number on the street and you guys delivered. So my questions are mainly are around that.

Number one, you said that there was a $30 million inventory (inaudible) in the quarter. Can you just remind us -- I believe there was a $70 million draw down last quitter so there has been a fair bit of movement here. Has that stabilized? Should we expect further movements going forward, yes or no?

Then I heard a couple of numbers thrown around and I got a little bit confused. So just a clarification. What exactly was the price benefit in the US year on year? And then the ex-US, can you update us on what is going on with AMNOG and [ICKWIG] in Germany? There has been some I know movement over there and I guess you guys came out a little bit ahead of your competitors. But could you walk us through the potential scenarios there? I know no one knows what is going to happen but what are some of the potential outcomes? Thanks so much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Absolutely, Mark. It is important that I try to give you as much specific as we can because it is such a big growth driver for us. And if you look at JANUVIA, what I said was that of a 9% US growth, about 1% was from volume, 4% was from inventory, the rest was from price. So that makes about 4% price.

You have to be careful extrapolating that over every quarter because mix can have a significant impact on how much price comes through at any point in time. Also the timing of price increases makes that a little difficult for you to try to predict and look for it to be the same quarter over quarter.

With regard to the inventory, we did see about $30 million of inventory movement this month which I mentioned. On the base of business that we have, it is very, very small, $30 million, so it is very difficult to predict the channel movements from one quarter to another. We are not seeing large channel movements in terms of how big the product is in the United States, so relatively small but small channel movements can have $30 million to $50 million impact.

So that is why for the guidance that I gave for the rest of the year, I said mid-single digits for the US but I excluded the movement of channel in there because you can't predict $30 million to $50 million of channel movement. It is within half a day sales or something like that. So that is how I think about the inventory moving forward.

With regard to on ICKWIG, so on July 1, they unannounced the outcome of their assessment of JANUVIA and some other DPP-4s. We were pleased that they've recommended that there is additional benefit for JANUVIA when added to metformin. We are very pleased with that. That is the beginning of the process.

The next step is a decision on the added medical value by the GBA and that is expected in the fourth quarter of this year. Once that happens, you actually go into the reimbursement discussions so we are happy with where we are today. We are very pleased with the initial assessment but there is still a lot more work for us to do and it will be another six months before we probably know the final outcome of that.

Just to put that in perspective for you, Mark, if you look at Germany, it represents less than 5% of our JANUVIA family sales to just give you a sense of the magnitude of that. So we are excited with what has happened thus far but there is still a long way to go.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks so much. I have two questions and they both relate to some cross currents. And so Ken, I am hoping that you can clarify for me and I guess for investors on the call with respect to the Animal and Consumer businesses, I think you described them as complementary today. But there has been a lot of hoping and dreaming about Merck divesting these businesses or re exiting these businesses on Wall Street. So can you just sort of set the stage right in terms of how investors should think about them as being core to Mark that you will be building them or you will consider exiting them?

And then second with respect to R&D cross currents, I think Ken, you described how important it was to invest in R&D but many on the street have been hoping for significant R&D cuts. So if you could maybe settle that debate and frame whether you expect R&D to remain flattish over time or whether there are meaningful cuts ahead? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: So let me start with the Animal Health and Consumer conversation that we had today. So first of all, I have been saying for years that I think that they are complementary to our business but I also have been saying that we periodically assess our overall business strategy based on fit and based on business opportunity. We believe that business diversity can be complementary and contribute to our top and bottom line growth.

But if we were to view these assets as being more productive outside the Company, we would consider other alternatives. So I am saying that we constantly reassess and reevaluate our entire portfolio. That is an ongoing thing for us. When I said that I consider them complementary again that is not a new comment, I have made that ever since I have been CEO. But I am also saying that we have to look at the overall performance of the portfolio and decide basically how we can maximize long-term cash flow for shareholders.

With respect to R&D, the first point I would make is that we continue to think innovation is going to be the long-term driver of the Company's success. We are going to continue to invest in programs like PD-1 to ensure that we bring those products to market as quickly as possible and reach their full potential. We are always looking to improve productivity across the Company.

So I will let Roger comment on what he sees going forward but I would say that in every aspect of our business we are looking for an opportunity as you heard Roger say, he is evaluating programs, processes and people. I think it is appropriate though to give him some time to assess that entire equation and decide how he is going to drive better ROI going forward.

We also by the way did say that we are lowering our R&D guidance in 2013 versus 2012 so all of those things coming together I think directionally say something about R&D spending inside the Company but I do again think Roger has the right and the opportunity to look at the overall picture and decide how he wants to improve ROI going forward.

I will just close by saying at the end of the day, all of these companies at the end of the day have to innovate and they have to bring forward clinically meaningfully differentiated products the way that Roger has said and that remains to me the major focus of Merck and Merck's strategy.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good afternoon. A couple of questions. First, on the DPP forecast within Europe, the (inaudible) Commission in France just yesterday announced they are going to be focusing on the (inaudible). ICKWIG, while Merck may benefit from the ongoing discussions there, it is clear some of your competitors are going to have a pricing drag down. The first outcome trial failed to show any DPP benefit of the much older drugs and healthcare systems in my part of the world are still struggling and DPP-4s make a soft target in obviously reference to Japan.

Am I being too negative here when I think about the pressures on the franchise outside the US?

Second question is for Roger. Perhaps you could outline what the split in current investments is between research and development within Merck? And then following on from that, what scope do you see for downsizing Merck's current research as opposed to development but research infrastructure? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So why don't I talk a little bit about DPP-4 class and I will focus outside the US because that is where you focused and I spoke of lot about the US already. I just want to reiterate that we had good volume growth in all regions and we had good growth if you just looked at the five core European markets, we had very strong growth not only in volume but also in dollars.

I believe the environment in Europe is tough and I think it will continue to be tough but I also believe that the value that physicians and patients see in a product like JANUVIA is very strong. And also when you talk to the governments, I do believe that they see the value that a product like JANUVIA can bring into the marketplace. And the marketplace tends to show you the value of the product based upon the utilization and when you look at the utilization of JANUVIA, I think it is because physicians see not only the great efficacy that you can see on HBA 1C but they also feel comfortable with the safety profile that they have been accustomed to.

And if you look at the cost of the implications of diabetes, they are very significant. In Europe typically the DPP-4s are utilized after metformin so it is not threatening the largest generic in Europe. It is actually being utilized after the generics are used in Europe. So I think that it shows that there is a way to try to use a low-cost metformin but since many patients can't get to goal on a low-cost metformin or with the sulfonylurea has safety or side effect issues that the physicians are looking for a way to control diabetes such as with JANUVIA.

And then the government sees the implications of not treating diabetes in terms of the macrovascular disease, microvascular disease in terms of hospital admissions and so forth. So I still think that there is a strong potential for JANUVIA in Europe.

In addition to that, we still have markets that we are waiting for reimbursement outside of Europe such as in China where we think there is also opportunities for the future.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Andrew, it is Roger. With respect to the split in current investment, we could spend quite a long time talking about the way in which funds are allocated at Merck. But let me just point out that as has been described in detail by academic analyses of expenditures and pharmaceutical companies, investments in discovery research as a fraction of the total investment in R&D have been declining monotonically since 1980 and discovery research is actually a very small component of all large pharmaceutical companies. It represents simply the fully allocated cost of the people doing the work. And the expense associated with clinical trials has been rising progressively.

Merck is no different from all other big companies. We spend far more on development than we do on research. Having said that, you should keep in mind that there is a lot of stuff that is classified as research that really relates to development. Questions are raised by regulatory agencies with respect to products that have long been on the market that require preclinical studies. It is researched effort but it actually is contributing to the development role. So there is a lot of complexity in there.

And with respect to opportunities that exist for reducing expenditure in research, I think the real question to be asked is what do you do to improve the productivity of the R&D organization to actually create breakthrough products that make a real difference to patients. Ultimately you innovate or you die and that is what needs to be done and you need to do it as effectively, efficiently and productively as possible and that is what we intend to do.

OPERATOR: Alex (inaudible), BMO Capital.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: A couple for Roger if I may. Are you doing any co-formulation work to combine the SGLT2 you got from Pfizer with JANUVIA as a fixed dose combination similar to what your competitors are doing?

And also could you please provide us an update on our once weekly DPP-4 and is there any possibilities for a co-formulation there? Thank you.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Thanks for the questions. With respect to the SGLT2 program, of course we are just moving forward with that program. We expect to advance that program into Phase III this year. But we also are interested as I said last quarter, that one of the things that is extremely attractive about this program is it is very well behaved pharmaceutically and hence, we expect it to play nicely with others.

We have always had an interest in the idea that this could be used in combination with our existing programs and so we are looking at those things very closely. That would be something of course that we would include in our registration programs. And we continue to make progress on our once weekly program, our Phase III program is ongoing and we are enthusiastic about it. We think it is a very, very good opportunity.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: On a margin basis, where do you think the greatest scope for cost savings going forward on this Company of a two-, three-year view would be? Would it be in COGS, SG&A and R&D? Maybe you can rank those for us.

And then secondly coming back to I think Consumer Health specifically, probably under 4% of group EBITDA in terms of what it actually produces. How do you think of that really as being an asset to give diversification to the Company for such a small contribution? And then how would you assess the margins of that Company versus some of its peers of larger scale? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, let me take the consumer question. We have looked at the profitability of our consumer business and we believe it stacks up well against its competitors. I agree that the asset is smaller compared to our pharmaceutical business. I have said before that it is not global scale but it is a very good business. It produces really strong cash flow and we also continue to see that the OTC opportunities of which is Oxytrol is the most recent example for us do give us a complementary tie to our pharmaceutical business.

PETER KELLOGG: So, Jeff, this is Peter Kellogg. Let me answer your first question regarding margins and opportunities in our P&L.

So we are a large complicated business so I can appreciate it is hard to sort through but let me go back to kind of a couple of pieces. First of all, when we announced the merger almost four years ago, we did highlight that we had a fairly extensive manufacturing network because quite frankly we combined three companies, Merck, Schering-Plough and Organon, and really had an extensive manufacturing network of over 90 plants and I think you will recall that is what we highlighted on day one that required rationalization over time.

We have made great progress on that. At this point a number of plants we have in the network is numbered kind of in the low 70s and I think that it is very clear that we are going to continue to do that. As we indicated at the time of the merger, that is not something you can get done in three or four years. It is really an ongoing process of continuing to drive more and more efficiency. So I think there is more to come there.

Obviously how it shows up in the P&L is through the cost of goods eventually. There is always if you measure things in terms of PGM percent then you get the blend between the efficiencies and productivity coming through the cost of goods sold versus the pricing that you can realize and that really comes down to again the innovation and the exciting new products that we bring forward.

I do think that clearly on the cost of goods sold that is an ongoing opportunity that we have talked about.

Just going down the P&L, in the R&D side, I think what I know Roger and I have talked a lot about is it is really a question of the ROI that we think about there. If we have the right opportunities such as a PD-1, we are going to spend the money on that and we are intending to have an exciting pipeline. So it is not a goal of ours to have -- not to have exciting opportunities and not to spend money.

Conversely we do really want to pay close attention to how we are spending and making sure it is focused on -- as Roger said -- the really big things that can make a big difference in the marketplace and then obviously drive the top line.

So R&D I think is very much of a focus for us from a productivity standpoint but very much of an ROI perspective. If we have the great opportunities we are going to go after them and we will make sure that we are doing it efficiently.

Then obviously the last thing is on SG&A, we continue to evaluate that globally as what does our footprint look like and how do we operate in the most efficient manner? We made tremendous progress since the merger as I think we highlighted at the end of last year. We actually hit and exceeded all of our merger synergy goals that we had which were pretty extensive. I think we highlighted that we achieved a net benefit of $3.5 billion which actually means that are gross savings were over $6 billion. So that is very, very substantial merger synergy program that we have executed.

But I think what is very important is as Ken said in his talk today, cost management is very important for us and it is a resource that creates on the one hand a more efficient P&L but quite frankly, it also allows us to spend on the growth drivers which is so important to our future.

So I don't want you to conclude that we are simply thinking about our cost structure as how do we take cost out but it is also how do we reinvest to drive shareholder value and really create a lot of value in this Company bodes to the pipeline as well as the commercial assets around the world.

So I think SG&A continues to be a focus for us but on the other hand, I think we are also going to balance all of those savings with where we have opportunities to invest.

So I'm not giving you a very specific answer I realize that but I do want to make the point that while we have opportunities and we're going to continue to pursue them, we certainly executed well in the merger synergies that we laid out and we are going to continue on that through the manufacturing network. Elsewhere in the organization, we are thinking about return on investment and creating value but we will never be passive about those.

As Ken likes to say, we are going to be ambitious in driving performance in the short term but we are never going to back away from investing for long-term potential, long-term value creation.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: First, why will the tax rate be so much higher in the second half of the year versus the first half and what does this tell us about the tax rate in 2014?

Secondly, you mentioned 2013 R&D spend will be lower but you haven't quantified it. I guess we should assume it will only be modestly lower. Would you like to recalibrate that expectation?

Thirdly, why was (inaudible) sequentially down in the second quarter? It had been sequentially up in the second quarter of 2012? Thank you.

PETER KELLOGG: This is Peter. Let me take the first question on tax. I think you had a couple of questions there so let me just take them one at a time if I can. You asked why would the tax rate be higher in the second half of the year than the first half of the year.

So as we went through the first half of the year, and I'm just going to take it quarter by quarter, in the first quarter, we saw some significant tax benefits that came through and I think we highlighted them at that time and they are very kind of one time in nature. There were R&D tax credit being re-implemented and so forth. We also had a couple of resolution of some tax audit situations allowed us to release some reserves and so that caused our tax line to be lower in the first quarter.

In the second quarter, we also had a reduction in some tax reserves because we had the expiration of some statute of limitations and so that allowed us to free up some tax reserves and basically some of these benefits were things that we thought about over the course of the full-year, we didn't really actually when we first put the plan together anticipate getting all of these things in the first and second quarters.

So as you think about how the year comes together, when you think about the full-year tax guidance of 22% to 23%, the way you get to that on a full-year basis is it ends up being a weighted average of all the quarters. So if the first two quarters were lower that by definition means the third and fourth quarters will be higher and they will only be higher because we just won't have those one-time benefits pulling the rate down. We are going to return to a more natural run rate than we would expect.

So I think you will recall that what we are talked about in the past is the ongoing tax rate of the Company will be a little higher than what you are seeing right now and so generally, we have talked about the long-term tax rate recognizing it is a little uncertain because things can move around but excluding any unusual items or any items that pull it down or move it up that are kind of unique in nature, we expect it to be running at a higher rate in the range of something like 25% to 26% on an ongoing basis.

But I think we want to be careful that always each year as we go into the year, we will update you in terms of what we see on the horizon relative to how the taxes are evolving.

I think on the second question, you were asking about R&D and why will it be lower in the second half and in the first half in fact how should we think about what we are looking at? So obviously in my comments, I highlighted that in prior year, we actually did have a payment for ENDOCYTE in the second quarter of last year so we are lapping that in a sense.

But we also basically see as we move forward kind of there is a flow of activity. Roger is making decisions and so forth and I think that basically we are using kind of the most recent updated view of R&D as we think about it. So quite frankly, it ties to productivity, to focus and we are not talking about a sea change. We are just simply -- previously we thought it would be a little bit higher and now we are kind of indicating that our expectation is based on what we see it will be a little bit lower.

ADAM SCHECHTER: I'll take the third one. Steve, this is Adam. With regard to ZOSTAVAX, there is definitely a seasonal nature to the business and we have been predicting that all along. In 2012, it was our first year with full US supply so when we had full supply, the offices were buying the vaccine and they were stocking and getting ready for vaccinations. In addition to that, we had just started our direct to consumer promotion in the second quarter of 2012 because we wanted to ensure that we would have adequate supply before we would actually drive demand through the DTC promotion.

So I wouldn't use 2012 as a direct year-over-year comparison to 2013. We expect that the second half of this year will be stronger and the strongest quarter will be dependent upon when flu vaccinations occur because that is when we believe we will see many people getting vaccinated for [zoster] as well.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. For Roger, I would love to get your personal view on the opportunity and the risk associated with odanacatib at this point.

Secondly, could you be in a position to file lambro in melanoma early next year given the unmet need in that population and your breakthrough status?

And maybe lastly, Adam, can you talk about what prompted the GARDASIL decision in Japan and whether that has implications anywhere else? Thanks.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: (inaudible) but at the same time asks that we continue the study in order to obtain additional efficacy and safety data, we are continuing the study in that way. We do anticipate that we will have the opportunity to look at those data in the not-too-distant future and based on what we see there, we hope to be able to move forward with the odanacatib filing but we have to see the data of course.

With respect to PD-1 again, the information that we have is that as you can see from looking at clinicaltrials.gov, we have ongoing pivotal studies in melanoma refractory to therapy. We have a Phase III study in melanoma versus [sipalumamab]. Those studies will deliver results either in the latter case at the end of next year or in 2015.

If in fact it were the case that there were overwhelming efficacy earlier on, there might be opportunities for a more accelerated filing strategy but that is something that we really will have to wait to see data on and of course, we are working very, very closely with the FDA on that.

ADAM SCHECHTER: With regard to Japan, the government suspended the proactive -- so it is important to say the proactive recommendation of HPV vaccines. The vaccines still remain on the market in Japan and the MLHW is just looking to some postmarketing of these that they have seen specific to Japan. We have not seen any significant impact at this time in other markets around the world and MRL continues to monitor the AEs as appropriate and we are confident in safety profile for GARDASIL.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me just close by saying I think this was a good quarter, a solid quarter. Going forward, our strong focus will remain on growth for the Company as well as driving greater profitability. It was good to see a bounce back in certain sales particularly JANUVIA. We had good vaccines and immunology sales. It is great to see that the emerging markets are still moving ahead in a very strong way.

As we go further, we will continue to invest thoughtfully in these commercial opportunities as well as our pipeline opportunities. We are very excited about for example PD-1. And as we think about this business going forward, we continue to think that innovation has got to be the key but we have got to be very careful to deliver the right kind of reductions in our cost base that will allow us to do that in a sustainable way.

So thank you very much for your attention and I look forward to talking to you in future quarters and in future venues. Thank you. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
iinsulin : Diabetes Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty : Drugs/Medication | ihormp : Hormone Products
   NS
c133 : Patents | c151 : Earnings | gdias : Diabetes | ntra : Transcripts | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130806e97u002gx
  


 HD
 Q1  2013  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,237 words
   PD
1 May 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's first-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, VP OF IR, MERCK & CO.: Thank you, Jackie, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Merck's first-quarter 2013 conference call. Before I turn the call over to Ken I want to point out just a couple of items.

First of all there are a number of items in the GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we've excluded those items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables and you can see them in our press release in table 2 and that will give you a better sense of the underlying performance.

There are three tables in the press release; the first table is the GAAP results, table number 2 reconciles our GAAP P&L to the non-GAAP results for the first quarter and table 3 provides the sales performance for the Company's business units and our products both on a reported basis and excluding exchange. During the call we will be referring to tables 2 when we discuss the P&L and table 3 when we talk about revenue performance.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current believes of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If underlying assumptions prove an accurate or uncertainties materialize actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

The Company's SEC filings including Item 1A in the 2012 10-K identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement.

Our SEC filings can be found on the website at Merck.com. You can also find our earnings release and all the tables there as well. This morning I am joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Roger Perlmutter, our new President of Merck Research Laboratories; Adam Schechter, our President of Global Human Health; and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now I would like to introduce Ken Frazier.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, MERCK & CO.: Thank you, Alex. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining the call today. Our results for the first quarter underscore the challenges of managing through a major patent expiration and the impact of headwinds which were even tougher than we had anticipated. However, we took the focused actions necessary to drive our business and deliver our first-quarter EPS target on an operating basis.

Given the trends facing us for the remainder of the year, including substantial non-operational impacts such as foreign exchange, we have adjusted our 2013 guidance downward. Peter Kellogg will discuss our guidance in more detail.

Despite these short-term challenges we remain committed to driving shareholder value. One way we demonstrate that commitment is by returning cash to shareholders. In the first quarter we delivered a 2.5% dividend increase and nearly $600 million in share repurchases and this morning we announced a $15 billion expansion of our share repurchase program. We expect to repurchase approximately half of that for $7.5 billion in the next 12 months.

Also key to creating shareholder value is our four-part strategy which is focused on executing on our core business, expanding in key markets geographically, extending our complementary businesses and excelling at managing our cost structure. This strategy enables us to take a balanced approach to address the short-term and long-term challenges and opportunities inherent in our business.

We knew the first half of 2013 would be challenging for us due to the patent expiries we face and the first-quarter results illustrate that challenge. We fell short of our expectations for top-line performance and are not satisfied with our overall number for the JANUVIA franchise which, along with the continued decline in sales of SINGULAIR and other products with patent expirations, led to a 9% decline in worldwide sales.

However, the opportunities for JANUVIA remain strong and we are deploying more resources in a targeted manner to this important brand moving forward. Let me be clear, I am confident in the continued growth of our diabetes franchise both in the United States and globally.

Adam will walk you through the human health product performance including additional context for the JANUVIA performance this quarter. Overall it is important to note the good performance of vaccines, immunology products and ISENTRESS as well as Animal Health and Consumer Care in the first quarter.

In response to the challenges we encountered this quarter we moved quickly to reduce SG&A spending that prioritize our investments versus our previous plans. We continue to decrease costs without compromising our best opportunities for future growth such as the necessary investments in our core brands and product launches.

Turning to our expansion strategy in key geographies, the emerging markets grew 8% excluding exchange and accounted for approximately 21% of pharmaceutical sales for the quarter. We continue to make investments in commercial, manufacturing and R&D to align with the long-term potential of the emerging markets. For example, just last month we opened a new manufacturing facility in pain show Hangzhou, China with capabilities to supply our high-quality medicines to China and the Asia-Pacific region at lower cost.

In terms of our complementary businesses, our Animal Health sales grew 4% in the quarter excluding exchange. We had continued strong performance in the US and Northern Europe despite challenging market conditions. We drove continued growth of the poultry business as well as the companion animal business which was led by strong uptake of our new product ACTIVYL for ticks and fleas.

Merck Consumer Care also continued its top-line growth driving good demand in several key markets including the US, Canada, Mexico and Russia. Sales grew 4% this quarter ex-exchange driven by Coppertone and CLARITIN as retailers gear up for the allergy management and sun protection seasons.

Moving now to R&D, we continued to advance the pipeline in the first quarter. We now have five products under regulatory review including suvorexant for insomnia and sugammadex for reversal of neuromuscular blockades.

As I've underscored many times, innovative R&D is the cornerstone of Merck. Given how essential R&D is to our long-term future I am pleased to welcome our new President of Merck Research Labs, Roger Perlmutter, to today's call. As you know, Roger is a world-class physician scientist with an established track record of successfully leading large research organizations and delivering a broad and diverse pipeline of medicines.

With his deep knowledge and appreciation for basic science and the opportunities for applied biomedical research, the challenges we face from regulatory authorities and especially payors to demonstrate the comparative safety, efficacy and cost advantages of new drug candidates and the implications of all of this for how we can best use R&D resources Roger is the ideal leader for our Research Labs.

I am confident that under Roger's leadership Merck will increase our return on R&D capital while successfully bringing forward transformative medicines that make a real difference for patients and shareholders alike. Although he has only been with us now for about two weeks I invited Roger to make a few remarks. So, Roger?

ROGER PERLMUTTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO.: Thanks, Ken. I feel very privileged to have the opportunity to lead the Merck Research Laboratories. As many of you know, this is a true homecoming for me since I was responsible basic research and early clinical development at MRL about 15 years ago.

I've spent the last two weeks familiarizing myself with the current state of the laboratories and with our most critical projects. As Ken mentioned, both suvorexant, our dual orexin receptor antagonist, and sugammadex, our modified cyclodextrin that permits rapid reversal of neuromuscular blockade during surgery, are currently under regulatory review. We are looking forward to having more detailed discussions with the FDA on these agents.

Last week we announced that the FDA had granted breakthrough status to lambrolizumab, also known as known as MK-3475, which is our investigational PD-1 specific monoclonal antibody for the treatment of advanced malignancy. As you are aware, a 510 the patient Phase II study of this agent in malignant melanoma is currently underway.

We will be presenting more mature data from our Phase Ib study in the same indication at the American Society for Clinical Oncology meetings in early June which will demonstrate why we are so enthusiastic about this new approach for treating a variety of otherwise devastating malignancies.

I've also had a chance to review the odanacatib program. Last year an independent data monitoring committee recommended that our pivotal study be closed for robust efficacy and a favorable benefit risk profile while noting that safety issues remained in certain selected areas. The DMC recommended continuing the previously planned extension study in a blinded format to collect important safety and efficacy data. That extension study is proceeding at pace. We have a good plan in place and hope to accrue the necessary data and allow for a 2014 filing as previously discussed.

Finally, just two days ago we announced a worldwide collaboration agreement with Pfizer to develop and commercialize their investigational SGLT2 inhibitor, ertugliflozin, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. This partnership builds on our very significant expertise in diabetes and will permit the exploration of a potent and selective SGLT2 inhibitor, both as a stand-alone intervention and in combination with other agents including of course JANUVIA.

There is more work ahead over the next three to six months as I continue assessing the lab's and our pipeline, so it's too early for me to go into details about my views about specific programs or what changes I see ahead for Merck research. Suffice it to say that when the time is right I will have more to say on all of these topics. Meanwhile know that I'm excited to be back at Merck and delighted to be working with the gifted scientific team at MRL in addressing the needs of patients around the world.

KEN FRAZIER: Thank you, Roger. In terms of R&D, as you could hear, we remain committed to accessing the best opportunities whether they are internal or external and this year we have already entered into a number of new licensing agreements.

In addition to the diabetes partnership with Pfizer that Roger just mentioned, last week we announced a hepatitis C agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb to study MK-5172 in an all oral combination with Bristol's NS5A inhibitor in a Phase II study. And in February we announced an agreement with Samsung which combines Merck's global commercial presence with the development and manufacturing capabilities of Samsung to increase access to biosimilars.

In closing, our top-line performance for the quarter reflected both the challenges facing Merck and the benefits of our broad diversity across businesses, products and geographies. While we are not satisfied with our first-quarter top-line results, they are also not indicative of the future opportunities for our business.

Despite the continuing economic pressures and the need to manage through patent expiries, we are committed to driving better top-line performance with key growth products such as JANUVIA in key geographies, advancing and augmenting our pipeline and taking out cost through continuous productivity improvements. By doing these things well we will continue to generate steady cash flow and drive shareholder return over the longer term. I would like to now turn the call over to my colleague, Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO.: Thank you, Ken, good morning, everyone. This morning I will focus my remarks on three areas -- first, our core products; second, our core markets; and third, the launches we anticipate later this year and those we are preparing for beyond this year that will provide additional long-term growth opportunities. So let me begin with our results.

Human health sales declined 12% year over year. There is a $1.4 billion impact from the loss of exclusivity of SINGULAIR, PROPECIA, CLARINEX and MAXALT and there was weakness in the yen. While the loss of exclusivity was expected, the rate and the level of erosion has been more rapid. In addition, we had an unexpected decline in US wholesaler inventory levels of about $150 million.

Though I am not satisfied with our results this quarter I am confident in our future outlook. So let me share with you what I do to get a sense of the underlying business performance. First, I look at sales on a constant currency basis. I also exclude sales from products that lost exclusivity. Then I look to see if there's an impact to the business from wholesaler purchasing patterns. Putting that aside this quarter our underlying growth was 4%. I will now provide more details.

Starting with JANUVIA and JANUMET franchise which had sales of $1.3 billion and 1% growth ex-exchange. 7% growth in international markets was offset by a 5% decline in the US this quarter. Let me take a moment to talk about the factors that affected the growth rate this quarter. This is important context that I want to provide.

First in the United States let's talk about demand, price and inventory. With regard to demand, as you can see from prescription data, growth was about 4% this quarter. This was significantly lower than demand growth in the first half of last year. The growth last year was driven by the TZD market events. There is no longer opportunity to grow share from the TZDs. In addition, we are comparing versus a very high volume increase last year.

Regarding price, the market is very competitive. We are seeing rebate and pricing pressure as newer competitors seek to improve their formulary positions by lowering price. We have maintained greater than 75% marketshare and we have an 85% preferred formulary status despite these attempts.

Finally on inventory, our customers reduced their inventory levels for the JANUVIA franchise by about $70 million in the first quarter. We believe this is a one-time adjustment. If we exclude this inventory reduction we believe our sales would have grown by about 5% in the United States.

Now moving to international markets. JANUVIA and JANUMET grew 7% ex-exchange. In Japan we are starting to see lower year-over-year growth due to high market penetration. The DPP-4 class is the number one class of all diabetic medicines in Japan, they are ahead of metformin, they are ahead of sulfonylureas. And we are the market leader with close to a 70% share. So let's talk about our expectations for JANUVIA in the remainder of this year.

In the United States, based on current Rx trends in the competitive market, we anticipate mid-single-digit sales growth. Internationally we expect to see a return to low-double-digit growth ex-exchange, that is consistent with the underlying demand growth this quarter.

There continue to be good growth opportunities in the future. Diabetes prevalence is growing around the world and the sulfonylurea class still represents about 35% of patient days of therapy worldwide. We have made strong inroads in some markets like Japan, but this has proven to be more challenging than other markets like the US. We are increasing our investments to make inroads into the sulfonylurea class. For example, in the United States we have recently trained and re-assigned additional dedicated sales personnel to JANUVIA.

Moving now to ISENTRESS. ISENTRESS continues to be an important core brand for Merck with sales of $360 million and 8% growth. In the United States we are maintaining our patient share despite new competition. Outside of the US ISENTRESS continues to have good volume growth offset partially by pricing pressure in certain European markets.

In our cholesterol franchise ZETIA and VYTORIN global sales were slightly down over the prior year. ZETIA sales growth was offset by a decline in VYTORIN sales. We are looking forward to our potential launch of [liptrozad] in the United States and I'll talk more about that in just a moment.

Moving now to immunology, the combined immunology business consisting of REMICADE and SIMPONI grew 10% in the quarter ex-exchange driven mostly by SIMPONI. Sales of SIMPONI grew 40% exceeding $100 million in quarterly sales for the first time. We are seeing a positive impact from the recent launch in France and from the reintroduction of the auto-injector in Germany.

Moving to VICTRELIS. Global sales were $110 million this quarter. Continued growth in international markets was offset by a decline in the United States compared to the prior year. While we are pleased with our strong global marketshare we continue to see a contraction in markets, particularly the US, France and Germany, due to warehousing and a large number of clinical trials.

Lastly moving to vaccines. Vaccines had another strong quarter with combined growth of 25%. GARDASIL maintained its strong performance with over 30% growth year over year. Strong growth in the United States reflects continued uptake of the male indication and includes about $50 million of higher public-sector purchases this quarter.

Moving on to ZOSTAVAX. ZOSTAVAX sales increased significantly over prior year to $168 million reflecting strong demand in the US and Canada. The sequential decline versus fourth-quarter sales was expected given seasonality.

As you may recall, we saw very strong demand in fourth quarter driven by patients representing themselves during the flu season. We may see another sequential decline in second quarter given that the first quarter included a benefit from the flu season extending into January.

In the United States we estimate that about 20% of the population ages 60 and older have received the vaccine, so there remains the opportunity for growth. In addition, we continue to anticipate ex-US launches beginning this year. The UK has announced plans for a national vaccination program with ZOSTAVAX which is expected to start this fall.

Now I'd like to discuss our performance on a regional level. Let me start with the United States where sales were significantly affected by patent expirations. Excluding sales from products that lost exclusivity, US sales in the first quarter increased by 4%. First-quarter sales in Europe and Canada declined by 4% ex-exchange. Good volume growth from many brands only partially offsets price pressures and austerity measures.

Moving to Japan, first-quarter sales declined 7% ex-exchange. The decline was driven by the prior year biannual price cuts, generic competition and timing of sales per partner. Our volume growth is outpacing the market and we continue to expect sales growth on a constant currency basis for the full year of 2013.

In emerging markets first-quarter sales of $1.9 billion grew 8% ex-exchange. Growth in China alone was 21%. Growth in emerging markets was broad-based coming from core business, early contributions from our joint ventures in China and Brazil and from new products. This year we have plans to launch a significant number of new products across the emerging markets. In key emerging markets our growth is outpacing the overall market and we expect to deliver strong growth in 2013.

Now I'd like to move from our quarterly results to some of our future growth drivers. We have five products currently under review with regulatory agencies. Let me touch on two launches we are planning for if approved in the United States this year, a [liptrozad] and sugammadex.

First liptrozad, the combination of ZETIA plus atorvastatin. Many patients continue to have high LDL cholesterol despite the wide use of statins, including generic atorvastatin. Liptrozad can lower LDL cholesterol by more than 50% at the starting dose. We believe many patients can benefit from this product.

Second, sugammadex, our novel reversal agent for deep neuromuscular blockade. Now marketed in 50 countries BRIDION had $260 million in sales last year. We believe the US represents a significant opportunity. There are 30 million general anesthesia surgeries in the US annually. BRIDION could be used in about a quarter of these based on the type of surgery and the type of muscle relaxants utilized.

This brings me to upcoming new product launches for which we will begin to prepare for this year. First, the potential launches of suvorexant, our novel therapy for insomnia. The US and Japan, our first two major launch markets, represent 75% of the 3.3 billion global insomnia market and 2 billion patient days of therapy in each of the markets. We may have approval in Japan by the end of this year and pricing approval early next year. While we anticipate FDA action by the middle of this year, there is also a subsequent DEA review.

Second, our allergy immunotherapy tablet for grass has been filed with the FDA and ragweed has also been submitted. Currently there are about 3 million moderate to severe allergy sufferers in the United States who receive immunotherapy shots. There are also many people who opt out of receiving shots or drop off from therapy. Our AITs are daily sublingual products that we believe will be well received in the market.

And third, we continue to anticipate filing odanacatib in 2014.

So in closing, in addition to a significant sales decline due to loss of exclusivity we saw pressures to some of our growth drivers this quarter. We have a strong diverse portfolio and despite these challenges I remain confident that we can drive growth of our core products and our growth markets in 2013.

We also have many future growth opportunities coming in the short- and in the long-term and we continue to look forward to sharing our progress on these with you as we move forward. Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP & CFO, MERCK & CO.: Thank you, Adam, and good morning. In the first quarter we worked hard to offset the top-line pressures posed by patent expiration and foreign exchange to deliver the bottom-line. We accomplish this by holding our costs flat to achieve our first-quarter guidance.

Additionally, we had a benefit from unanticipated tax items which drove our earnings up to $0.85 on a non-GAAP basis. Although we achieved our first-quarter guidance, the pressures on the business are greater than we had previously anticipated. As a result, we have updated our full-year guidance to reflect additional top-line pressures including from foreign exchange, as well as new R&D programs and revised tax rate. I will talk about that in a minute. Separately, we are significantly increasing our share repurchase activity to increase the amount of cash we return to shareholders.

Now before I discuss our 2013 outlook and the new share repurchase program, I would like to review the operating results in the first quarter. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials. On this basis we earned $0.85 per share this quarter compared to $0.99 in the prior year. The biggest driver of the decreased EPS was the loss of sales due to generic erosion of SINGULAIR, MAXALT, CLARINEX and PROPECIA.

Now, these are all relatively high gross margin products, and their erosion created a 2.3 point headwind on the gross margin this quarter. As a result, the overall gross margin was lower in the first quarter of 2013 on a year-over-year basis and on a sequential basis as we said it would be on our last call. Our non-GAAP gross margin declined on a year- over-year basis to 74.4%.

Now, on a full-year basis, our productivity gains will offset part of the patent expiry impact, but we still expect about a 1 point reduction in our full-year gross margin compared to the prior year gross margin of 75.9%.

Turning to marketing and administrative expenses, our first-quarter SG&A expenses were about $50 million lower year over year. During the quarter we proactively reduced spending in response to the top-line pressures. Whereas we previously felt that there was upward pressure on SG&A spending in this year, we now expect SG&A spending in 2013 to be lower than in 2012 due to our cost reduction actions.

Moving on to R&D, research and development expense in the first quarter was about $50 million higher year over year due to upfront payments and milestones for newly in-licensed programs. Excluding these items R&D expense would have been lower than prior year.

Moving on to the other expense line, results in the first quarter reflect a one-time exchange loss of approximately $140 million due to the impact of the Venezuela currency devaluation as we previously announced.

Moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 12.5% in the first quarter. This is significantly lower than expected due to some unanticipated tax benefits of $0.06 per share. While we had expected a significant portion of these tax items in our full-year guidance, they came through earlier than we were anticipating.

Now let's turn to the 2013 outlook. On the bottom-line our 2013 non-GAAP EPS guidance range is now $3.45 to $3.55. On a GAAP basis we expect to earn between $1.92 and $2.16. Let me explain some of the drivers of our revised guidance.

Basically we see three pressures -- additional top-line pressures mostly due to foreign exchange as well as new R&D programs and a revised tax rate. Let me start with revenues.

During the first quarter we saw further deterioration of the yen, a stronger dollar trend globally and the currency devaluation in Venezuela. If these current rates persist we would expect full-year 2013 sales to be down 3% to 4% with foreign exchange accounting for about 2.5 points of the decline. Adam described some of the operational trends affecting sales.

While we expect a 3% to 4% decline on a full-year basis we have known that the first half of the year would be the most challenging due to the effective annualizing US SINGULAIR patent expiry as well as the more recent patent expirations. Because of the seasonal increases in SINGULAIR during the second quarter of 2012 we anticipate similar top-line pressures in the second quarter of 2013 and a similar year-over-year decline in sales as we saw in the first quarter. Once we annualize the SINGULAIR effect at the end of the first half we should see better revenue performance in the second half of 2013.

On R&D expenses new deals like the SGLT2 inhibitor from Pfizer bring upfront payments, milestones and development costs into 2013. In addition, we are accelerating development of our breakthrough PD-1 monoclonal antibody. As a result we now expect our 2013 non-GAAP R&D expense will be higher than the 2012 level on a full-year basis. These R&D investments will partially offset the SG&A savings that I mentioned earlier, but in total we expect our full-year operating expenses to be slightly lower in 2012.

The final element that I will discuss is the tax rate. At year-end we indicated that the tax rate in the first quarter would be the lowest of 2013 due to the 2012 R&D tax credit. As I mentioned, in addition to the R&D tax credit we also had about $0.06 of tax benefits that were originally expected in subsequent quarters of 2013 and assumed in our prior full-year guidance.

Separately, the product mix shift that we're seeing in the business actually puts upward pressure on the overall rate in 2013. We are now estimating our 2013 non-GAAP tax rate to be in the range of 22% to 23%. As a result the tax rate in the remainder of the year will be significantly higher than it was in the first quarter.

Speaking of the quarters, from an EPS perspective the second-quarter non-GAAP EPS is expected to be lower than the first quarter. Remember the tax rate will be significantly higher than the first quarter.

Before I close I would like to discuss capital allocation. Over the past three years we have paid out about $15 billion in dividends and have repurchased more than $6 billion of common stock. Consequently we have returned more than 70% of our free cash flow to shareholders over this period. In the first quarter we continued this pattern of returning cash to shareholders by repurchasing nearly 14 million shares of stock for approximately $600 million.

Given our sustained strong cash flow and financial position, the low interest rate environment and our desire to continue to return a higher percentage of our free cash flows to shareholders, our Board has authorized a $15 billion increase in our share repurchase authorization.

We expect to repurchase about half of this amount, or $7.5 billion worth of common stock during the next 12 months and the remainder will be available on an open ended basis. We believe this action, which is factored into our full-year EPS guidance, demonstrates our long-term commitment to shareholder value. At the same time we remain committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet and a strong financial position.

In conclusion, while the first quarter was challenging we were encouraged by a number of bright spots such as vaccines, immunology, HIV, emerging markets, Animal Health and Consumer Care. We managed our cost base well to achieve our bottom-line EPS targets. Additionally, we are taking significant new actions to return more cash to shareholders. And most importantly, we advanced some very high potential pipeline programs and brought in others. Thank you. Now I will turn the call back over to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter, and now we are ready to open up the call to answer your questions. In order to help us get through as many questions as possible please limit yourselves to one or two questions and note that we won't take follow-up questions. But if you do have additional questions you are welcome to rejoin the queue. Jackie, we are ready for the Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: (Technical difficulty) [addition] of the PD-1 program, I was wondering if you could talk about what that means and what the programs are that you are planning on? And then second, just on odanacatib, can you just give us a sense of how we should be thinking about hearing from you later this year -- how you are thinking about letting us know what is going to happen here and just what the update is? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Roger, the question I think was about PD-1, the first question, and then (multiple speakers).

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Maybe you could give me the first question on PD-1 again because unfortunately we can't hear you very well. So go ahead.

ALEX KELLY: Mark, would you mind repeating your question on melanoma or on PD-1? He may not be there. So I think the question was what is the status of the PD-1 program, what are we thinking about other indications?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Again, as I indicated, we are going to have the opportunity to review in detail the Phase Ib data at ASCO. And in addition we have an ongoing Phase II study in malignant melanoma. And as everyone knows, we do have breakthrough designation from FDA, as we recently announced.

We have the belief that the drug may have potential in a variety of other indications. We have been conducting a Phase I study in which we are looking at a variety of other malignancies. And using those data we'll be able to target to the appropriate patients and really ascertain whether or not the drug can make a big difference for patients with malignant disease.

Your second question related to the tempo of data from the odanacatib study. And as I indicated, the data monitoring committee had requested that we continue this blinded study in order to obtain additional data on efficacy and safety. We're doing that, we have a good plan in place and as these data become available for review we will, as soon as we can, let you know what our plans are. But we have to wait and see the data.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Peter, my first question to you is if you could walk us through the math on your share repurchase program. You said you are going to buy 7.5 million over the next 12 months, that would, just based on my calculations, reduce your share count by about 340 million or so which would be highly, highly accretive.

So of -- just related to your new guidance, I guess if you could just walk us through what your expectations are for the accretive impact from the buyback so we can figure out what the other offsets are and am I thinking about this correctly?

Obviously you don't get that full benefit in 2013, but I would think you would get a big chunk of that benefit. And then just secondly, Roger, I think that what Marc was trying to ask was what are the practical implications of breakthrough status or breakthrough designation for your PD-1? Thanks very much.

ALEX KELLY: Peter?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure hi, Jami, it is Peter. Let me take the first part. So what we did indicate, I think you got this right, is that we are going to repurchase over the next 12 months $7.5 billion, so if our stock is in the [40s], you can do the math. I don't think it is quite 340 million shares, that might be for the full $15 billion over a longer period of time.

And I think obviously the other thing I would just advise is, obviously going against that, you do have to factor in the fact that we do have stock being issued as part of our compensation program. Just as a metric, in 2012 we issued about 50 million shares, that is kind of the run rate there.

But in general we have factored in the benefit of the share repurchase into our EPS guidance for this year. And I think what is really important to recognize on our guidance is that we have a very strong international business which has positives and negatives obviously, but when foreign exchange rates shift as strongly as they have in Japan and in Venezuela it does impact us.

We mentioned earlier this year that Venezuela would be an impact to us on a full-year basis. However, we kept our guidance range and that pushed us down low in that range obviously and I think everyone was able to do the math on that. That is about -- on a full-year basis about a $0.07 per share impact to our EPS.

The other pressures we are seeing right now, most notably the yen obviously, but other currencies as well around the world add about $0.10 of headwind to our performance this year. We have added a little bit of spending on R&D, as I mentioned in my comments, and we are reducing costs elsewhere throughout the Company pretty aggressively.

So that gives you a sense of roughly how the EPS has been impacted and the top-line obviously has been impacted. Before we had indicated that we would be near prior year ex-exchange and there would be a 1% to 2% impact on foreign exchange now. We have updated that to say that there will be about a 2.5% impact on foreign exchange in the top-line.

So you work those factors into a model I think you will see that obviously offsetting that we have taken a lot of cost out, but still the guidance range is appropriate given the foreign exchange impacts. I think that we haven't given any specific guidance on the pace or specific timing of the share repurchase activity and I'm going to hold off on that -- we are not going to give any guidance on that until we finalize our plans.

ALEX KELLY: Roger, you want to talk about breakthrough --?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes. Jami, with respect to the implications of breakthrough designation, this is a new program, as you know, from the FDA. The agency is eager to work closely with sponsors when they identify product candidates that potentially could have a large impact in treating a grievous illness.

And we found already that there have been lots of productive interactions with the agency in terms of the design of our program. We are moving forward quite aggressively in that. We really believe this can have a big impact and we are delighted to be able to work closely with them.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Maybe Ken and Roger, you can talk -- can you both talk a little bit about what the predetermined mandate is? There is a period within which one can accelerate programs which may be tied to increased spending in R&D. So I'm just kind of wondering what the mandate is in terms of near-term improving efficiency in R&D given the higher spend versus some of the peers. And then longer term how do you see improving the productivity of the organization overall?

And then a second question for Roger on PD-1. Can you just clarify -- what were the reasons offered or how did you position PD-1 to gain breakthrough status in melanoma? Was the design of the trial specifically the fact that you tested this in Yervoy failures and achieved a 40% response rate? Was that a particularly strong contributor to gaining that status? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: So why don't we start? Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Well, I would say that when Roger came in -- and again, I am very pleased that Roger has rejoined us. I worked with Roger for a number of years in his prior Merck career.

I think the three things that I think I have asked Roger to do and that he's agreed to take on, the first one is to look at the organization and to make the kinds of assessments that are necessary to enhance the overall longer-term capability of MRL to continually be successful, if you will, in its endeavors of looking for these transformational drugs that are so important to companies like Merck.

The second one is looking at the various programs that are underway and making assessments along with his colleagues about those programs that are most productive so that we can ensure that the capital that we are spending on R&D is productively spent.

I would say the third thing that I have asked him to do, and this of course is the critical thing, is to continue looking for the best opportunities both inside and outside so that we have a flow of significant products in our pipeline to drive our future success. And, Roger, you can comment on how you are looking at -- it's only two weeks in.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes. So the -- it won't surprise anyone on this call that you bring in a new guy and a fresh pair of eyes that there are going to be some changes that take place. And Ken would not have wanted me to come here and assert that everything is going to be exactly as it was before.

I am doing a very detailed review of programs of process and people and already two weeks in I can say there are some opportunities for acceleration and for productivity enhancement. And you can be confident that am going to address all of those and we will have a chance to talk about them in much more detail going forward.

With respect to the PD-1 breakthrough designation, it is all about the data. You have seen the data that was announced early on, there will be more of it at ASCO. Those are the data really that persuaded the agency that this was something important to pursue.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: My first one was on capital deployment priorities and what got you to this $7.5 billion target the next 12 months. I guess specifically as we are thinking about this, what does this mean for potential dividend increases going forward with this announcement?

The second question was on JANUVIA and just kind of a little bit more detail just kind of what happened here. It seems like we have had competitors in this space for some time, did something change recently? And without this TZD kind of tailwind what you think you need to do a better job highlighting to physicians to really get the class of JANUVIA kind of back on track? I'm just looking for a little more color there. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Well, before Peter gets into the details, I think our approach to capital deployment is to try to figure out after doing a rigorous analysis how we can create the most shareholder value. And I will turn it over to Peter to give him an opportunity to speak to that. But that is what the real key here is, driving the most shareholder value.

PETER KELLOGG: Chris, thanks for the question. The dividend has always been our primary means for returning cash to shareholders and this announcement today doesn't change that at all. Obviously we increased our dividend about 2.5% this year and increased it 11% in 2012. So I think our commitment to the dividend remains very strong.

What we did here is we did a rigorous analysis of our capital structure and liquidity and from that we concluded that our current strong balance sheet and financial position are more than adequate to achieve our capital structure priorities and to preserve our ability to invest in the business in the ways we want to even in a down-size scenario.

So it gave us -- we feel like we've definitely got the capacity to fund both internal and external growth opportunities and we certainly will be doing that. But we also, as Ken said, are focused on shareholder value and returning cash to shareholders. And so, with a kind of marrying up as a strong dividend program that we continue -- we plan to continue to support we felt that a share repurchase opportunity was appropriate and certainly reasonable.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Adam?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, Chris, let me give you some additional thoughts on JANUVIA. And I want to first start off by saying we remain confident that there are growth opportunities for JANUVIA and for the DPP-4 class moving forward.

The opportunities are that diabetes prevalence is growing, sulfonylureas still represent a huge amount of patient days of therapy, about 35% of the patient days of therapy. And we have been successful in some markets where in Japan, for example, DPP-4s now represent more patient days of therapy than the sulfonylureas do.

We have to continue to talk with physicians and show them the benefits that you can get by adding JANUVIA to metformin. And I think with the additional dedicated resources that we are putting behind JANUVIA in countries like the United States where we now have full-time dedicated people in discussions with physicians, that will give us some additional momentum.

I also want to give you a little bit more perspective on what has occurred and what we see as we move forward. And I will go back to demand and I will give you a little bit more color on demand. So if you look at IMS data you can see about 4% growth.

But if you look prior to the TZD events you can see JANUVIA volume growth was in the single digits, it was somewhere between 8%-9%. When the TZD opportunity occurred we increased our resources, we focused on the opportunity and we saw growth between 11% and 16%. So we saw a very big acceleration. There is -- very difficult to compare now to back then when this acceleration was occurring.

So we believe that there is room for us to continue to grow. And as we get through this summer when the acceleration started to go away we'll start to see better comparisons your over year in terms of our Rx growth.

In terms of price, we have increased our price consistent with the market. The rebates and discounts have increased because new competitors are seeking to try to improve formulary physicians by lowering price or offering more rebates. So our discounts have gone up since last year, but we manage them closely and we manage them to maximize access.

And the good news is we have very strong managed care access with about 85% preferred formulary status. And if you look at our share in the US, we still have about a 75% share despite all the competition.

And then the last thing which I mentioned before, our customers did reduce inventory levels in the US by about $70 million for the JANUVIA franchise in the first quarter. This is the lowest days of supplies that they have been running for about two years. So if you excluded that we would have seen sales growth of about 5% in the United States.

Outside the US the underlying growth remains in the low-double-digits. And that is what leads us to feel confident that we anticipate mid-single-digit growth in the United States and we expect this return to low-double-digit growth outside the US. So we believe that there is opportunity for JANUVIA moving forward.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hey, Roger, I just want to say it is nice to hear your voice and it is great to have you back again. Sorry if I accidentally ask you a few Amgen questions every now and again. Just -- if I could just go back to JANUVIA, thanks for the color. Can I just expand on that though?

The $70 million inventory reduction, you mentioned you think it is one time. Can you just elaborate on why you think it is one time? And should we thus expect to commence -- return to more normal wholesaler levels next quarter so we could expect a sequential bump up and we should be thinking about that in our models?

And then if I might on the anti-PD-1 program there has been several questions, but I wanted to ask something a little bit more direct. Is the ongoing melanoma trial, which is technically labeled as a Phase II in clin trials, but is actually rather large I think at 500 or 600 patients? Is that -- could that or is that a pivotal trial that could support registration? Have you seen a signal in lung cancer yet? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, let's start with Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So thanks, Mark, for the question. And with regard to JANUVIA, we believe there is a $70 million inventory reduction in the United States, and we based that upon days of supply on hand that we receive data on. And I think what happened was with the very strong acceleration that we saw with the TZD volume wholesalers are buying in based upon that volume growth.

Now that we have seen less of a volume growth they've kind of taken the inventory down to I think manageable levels. They are at levels where they can consistently supply to the market, but they're at days of supply that are lower than they have been before. So we don't expect them to go lower, but I would not necessarily expect a bump up in the future.

What we expect is mid-single-digit sales growth in the US and that is reflective of the current Rx trends and the current marketplace competition. And then outside it is low-double-digit growth and that is really what we are seeing with underlying demand and growth for the first quarter.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Roger, you want to comment on (multiple speakers)?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And, Mark, thanks for your comments. With respect to PD-1, again, it is too early to really be just talking about regulatory strategy. You are right that we have an ongoing Phase II study, it's relatively early days for this 510 patient study in malignant melanoma. Everything will depend on the data.

And as you know in oncology, there are a variety of mechanisms that permit a relatively early entry. If the data are especially strong you can be confident that we will pursue all of those possibilities through our discussions with the agency.

And with respect to other indications, we are very encouraged by what we are seeing now in Phase I studies in multiple tumor types. But we need to wait for quite a bit more data before we will know how best to use this agent in other malignant diseases.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, thanks, Roger. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Firstly, with regards to your PD-1, there were a couple of early anecdotal patient reports of drug -- potentially drug-related anorexia, stroke, cachexia. Perhaps could you outline if there have been any additional cases reported or whether you believe this is just anecdotal observations that may be independent of the drug or whether there is any cytokine-related phenomenon, either drug or class related?

And then second, perhaps you could comment on the Animal Health business where you posted 2% growth, whether that is just because of a high baseline effect, FX or are there other issues as well in that? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: So, Roger, why don't we start with you on the PD-1 question?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: So with respect to PD-1, again, the -- we'll have an opportunity to present in more detail the safety analysis from the Phase Ib study at ASCO and you will be able to see that. Not surprisingly in these very seriously ill patients there are a variety of signals that one sees, but it is too early to know to what to attribute those things or to begin to talk about class effect.

At the moment I would just reiterate that we are very encouraged by what we see in terms of the benefit/risk profile at a very early stage in the development of this new intervention for cancer.

ALEX KELLY: And did you want to talk about Animal Health?

KEN FRAZIER: Well, this quarter we continue to see strong growth in the US, about 19%; Northern Europe was about 8%, but it was sort of offset by weakness in Southern Europe which was down and Asia specific which was down and also Latin America also grew slower sequentially. So I would say we saw some weakness that was impacted in certain areas by economic conditions, but overall we see excellent prospects for this business going forward.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford C. Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: A couple questions, one on Consumer Health. Ken, in the past you have said on several occasions you have felt you don't have critical mass in this division. Is that still the case? And if so, what options does Merck have in front of it to address that?

And then I had another question on PD-1. It seems to be a class-based side effect where if you block PD-1 you get pneumonitis. And obviously with the Bristol compound we saw three pneumonia-related deaths -- or I should say lung-related deaths. In your program can you talk about pneumonitis that you have seen?

ALEX KELLY: Okay, yes, Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Tim, thanks for the questions; I will start with my thoughts on consumer. My thoughts about the critical mass issue really have not changed. I think that continues to be an issue that we have to look at. And as I've said before, we periodically assess our business strategy based on the fit and the business opportunity that we see.

As I said in my earlier comments, we believe that this quarter our business diversity actually helped us, it was complementary, it contributed to the top- and the bottom-line growth that we need to have. But as always, we have to look at all of our portfolio and make assessments about what is the best way to create shareholder value going forward.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Roger, do you want to comment?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes. So specifically with respect to the pneumonitis issue, again, I caution everyone that it is too early in these studies to understand what is truly class-based. But it is the case that there has been pneumonitis reported. We can't compare the frequency of those events across studies, but we would say the majority of events that we have seen with MK-3475 are grade 1-2 and we have not had any reported fatalities to date. So that is what we know at this time but, as I say, early days.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, thank you, Roger. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: So I just wanted to welcome Dr. Perlmutter and ask -- and I'm not sure if it is appropriate for Ken to answer this, but could you just talk about your mandate with respect to rebuilding the pipeline? Whether you see doing that more internally and thus maintaining the R&D cost structure? Or taking the internal cost structure down and going externally for products to accelerate the late stage pipeline?

And then second, another PD-1 question. Last year when Bristol presented its early data on PD-1, it presented the data in multiple cancers. Your Phase Ib trial I believe includes multiple cancers, but you're only presenting the melanoma cohort at ASCO. Could you just tell us when we should expect data in other cancers from your PD-1? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Ken, do you want to start?

KEN FRAZIER: So, Dave, let me start by saying I am also pleased that Dr. Perlmutter has rejoined us. What is important for us going forward if we're going to be successful in our strategy is we have to have the best medically important products available whether they are internal or external.

You saw this quarter that we did some deals showing that we really are very much focused on what is going on in the outside world. And so I've not tried to be prescriptive to Dr. Perlmutter. I think it is all about the products, it is all about making sure that we have the right products in sufficient numbers over a period of time to make sure that we have the ability to grow this Company and to meet the needs of patients around the world. So I will turn it over to Roger to see if he has any other comments.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, David, thank you. My response to the question about the sufficiency of the pipeline is always the same. In my view I always want more; it is never good enough. I want more products and I want those products to be the very best possible. And I'm actually not so concerned about where they come from.

Let's be clear that no matter how good your research organization is, and we are very, very good, the majority of great research is being done elsewhere. It has to be true because of the sheer bulk of research organizations around the world. And I have worked with a lot of those people and they are terrific.

So I am eager to take advantage of their programs and bring them in-house where that makes sense where it complements our expertise and we will do that. And we will also accelerate the process of bringing forward products internally. I hope that is helpful.

With respect to additional tumor types, yes, we do have a multi-arm study in our Phase I program. We are looking at a variety of potential indications. The opportunity for an anti-PD-1 agent, our anti-PD-1 agent we believe is really quite broad. But the data at this point, it is too early to present the data.

Our Phase Ib study in non-small cell lung cancer is ongoing. We -- it's a little bit a function of patient accrual and how long it takes. So I don't want to promise you when exactly the data will be presented. But suffice it to say we are working assiduously to bring this program forward.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Sorry if I missed this, but how much did currency contribute to the reduction in your full-year EPS guidance? And then secondly, a question for Dr. Perlmutter. I think FOSAMAX was licensed and developed on your watch. How does its benefit to risk profile compare to odanacatib based on what you now know about odanacatib? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, let me just start to try to answer your questions about the factors that -- and the primary drivers that drove the change in the EPS guidance. I think the factors are the following. So, let's just go back -- we started at $3.60 to $3.70. I said when we set that target that we were going to try to set an ambitious target given that we were going through these patent expiries and last year it was $3.82.

So the original guidance was $3.60 to $3.70, Venezuela knocked off $0.07, the additional FX pressures on our top-line that we have seen since February we last talked about our guidance are another $0.10. We also have some tax pressures that constitute about $0.05.

As we look at the new R&D spend that is about $0.05 and the product trends that Adam referred to are about $0.06. So that all adds up to approximately $0.30 of pressure -- $0.33 of pressure, of which I would say 22% -- $0.22 are I would characterize as non-operational and operational items are about $0.11.

And we were able to offset over half of those pressures with operational cost reductions versus our prior plans. So we are able to offset a huge amount of that by cost-cutting, again, more than half; by my calculation around $0.18. But we still have Venezuela and FX, those are still pretty significant drivers and those are what led -- among other things -- to us saying at this point we think it is prudent for us to take down our guidance.

ALEX KELLY: Okay --.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And with respect to FOSAMAX versus odanacatib just a few things. You are right of course that FOSAMAX -- I was deeply involved in the alendronate program here. When I was at Merck previously I also supervised the Cat-K program which led to odanacatib. So it was nice to be there at the beginning and now I get to be here as we carry it over the finish line too.

And in addition, of course I have had experience with other anti-resorbtive agents, most particularly denosumab at Amgen as well as anabolic agents. So I have some background in the area.

You can't compare different classes of anti-resorptive agents. The important thing to recognize is that there is great need -- in the osteoporosis population there is great need for new agents that reduce fracture risk. And what we have heard from our data monitoring committee is that odanacatib has robust efficacy that's very important.

We have an ongoing Phase III blinded study, which the data monitoring committee as looked at, they have said they want is to continue that study on blind to look at additional safety and efficacy data and we are doing that. We know from prior studies that odanacatib compares very favorably in terms of its ability to build bone mineral density and to continue to build bone mineral density over time.

Other things will clearly distinguish odanacatib from bisphosphonate anti-resorptive agents and the need is very, very large. So I am encouraged by this and I'm eager to see what the data look like when we are finally able to get a complete unblinding of the study.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: First for Adam regarding your recent partnership with Pfizer. In general where do you see the SGLT2 sitting in diabetes, particularly relative to the DPP-4s? And then on hep C and your partnership with BMS, my understanding was that you had your own NS5A which was QD. Was there an issue with that product that led you to partner with BMS or was it simply that daclatasvir was so much further ahead and that this would speed things up a little bit? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, let's start with the first question, Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So let me give you some background on the SGLT2. And the first US launch was less than a month ago so it is still pretty early. In Europe it was in late 2012 so it is early but we have some data on that. We've done some market research in Europe and what we see is that in most cases the SGLT2 class is being used by specialists after DPP-4 class.

And diabetes is a progressive disease, most of the patients are on more than one prescription over time. The physicians typically begin treatment with metformin and then they add on therapies until a patient ultimately gets to insulin. So we believe there is room for another class. However we believe the SGLT2s will be used as an oral option after the DPP-4s.

And we believe that JANUVIA will continue to be the preferred choice as an add-on to metformin because of the efficacy profile, the proven tolerability and the five years of experience that we have -- that physicians have with the product already.

But we are pleased to be collaborating with Pfizer. We think that there is room to commercialize an SGLT2 inhibitor. And we are excited about the potential combination because after utilizing JANUVIA a nice combination with a high-quality SGLT2 we think would be a very attractive option for physicians when they want to continue to use oral therapies prior to insulins.

ALEX KELLY: Roger, do you want to comment about the hep C?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, there is no problem with our internal program. We do have a very satisfactory program, but, on the other hand, the opportunity to collaborate with Bristol is a good one and we clearly wanted to do that.

I should just say also with respect to SGLT2 that we -- I looked in detail at the materials of course from Pfizer before we went forward with that deal and their molecule that we are pleased to be collaborating on has very desirable properties and an extremely strong Phase II profile. So there is reason to want to go forward with a leading molecule like that in developing combinations.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: So first off on the revenue guidance, the cut that you have made is greater than the incremental FX headwind that you (inaudible). So I would assume that you've got some specific products which you're lowering your internal expectations for for 2013. Could you just break out what those are?

And then just secondly, on the decision around the share repurchase program that you've put in place, would you say that is coincidental in terms of timing with this quarter or potentially reactive to some of the pressure on EPS that might be going forwards as potential things like (inaudible) estimates on the Street which I think the growth rates are higher than you have talked about on this call might come down. Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: So let me start on the share repurchase question. So, no, there is no connection to what happened in this quarter. There are no specific triggers for the program. Our Board approved a $15 billion share purchase program because after rigorous analysis of our capital structure and liquidity, the interest rate environment, we thought it was a good way to return additional cash to shareholders while maintaining our capital structure objectives. So if anything it just reflects our longer-term confidence in our future.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And with regard to revenue there are three pressures that I think are important. The first one is if you look at the patent expiries, the rate and the magnitude of decline from the products that we mentioned such as SINGULAIR, MAXALT, CLARINEX and PROPECIA, is very strong and it's even stronger than what one would anticipate if you looked at prior patent expiries.

So we are seeing a more rapid deeper loss than the patent expiry products. And it's in the United States but you're also seeing significant generic erosion in countries like Japan to a level that is stronger than what we've seen before for patent expiries.

With the second pressure is hepatitis C where we are seeing very significant warehousing in countries like the United States and Germany and France where physicians are really starting to have significant warehousing which is in addition to the fact that there are a lot of clinical trials that are underway that are taking up a lot of available patients into the clinical trials.

And the third that we remain confident that there are growth opportunities for JANUVIA. There still is pressure on JANUVIA, as I've outlined before. So those are three areas where we see increased pressure as we look at 2013.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Michael Tong, Wells Fargo Securities.

MICHAEL TONG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Two questions, one on one ertugliflozin. Just wondering what kind of differentiation do you see in that molecule given the fact that you may be number four or later to market? And then secondly, with respect to clinical news flow, what Phase II or Phase III data would you highlight to investors and analysts from now till the end of the year?

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Adam, you want to start with that or --?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So I would start with the SGLT2 class and working with Pfizer and their compound. We are excited about that opportunity. As I mentioned, we see SGLT2s as a potentially important class that will be utilized in an oral diabetic agent after DPP-4s and in particular after JANUVIA. We think having a combination with the market leader, JANUVIA, will represent a very significant opportunity.

So, it is early to see the exact data from the product as a monotherapy, although, as Roger said, we are excited about the initial Phase II data. But we think the combination also represents a very significant opportunity because of the success of JANUVIA in the marketplace.

KEN FRAZIER: Roger, why don't you speak to the Phase II?

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, so, just again with respect to our collaboration with Pfizer -- the importance of combination therapy just can't be over emphasized. And again, to have a compound that, based on what we can see, plays nicely with others -- that's really important and provides us with a big advantage.

Going forward we have a number of programs that we are going to be talking about. Of course we spent a lot of time on the call talking about 3475, our anti-PD-1 antibody and there will be a lot of data coming out with respect to that. We will also the opportunity to talk about other biologicals, particularly in the anti-inflammatory space, so there is additional data that will become available from MK-3222, our anti-IL-23 antibody.

We are going to have the opportunity to have some discussion of our BACE inhibitor program. As everyone is aware, the impact of Alzheimer's disease is very profound and we have a leading program for the leading hypothesis with respect to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Safety analysis data will become available as part of a very large study in patients with mild to moderate cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease.

We also will have a lot of data in the HCV program, some of which has been touched upon during our call today. That is just a beginning because, of course, we are very active in a lot of different fields.

ALEX KELLY: Thank you. I think we have time for two more questions, Operator.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: You commented about the construct, particularly in the US, of JANUVIA demand. It's very appreciative. But the question really is around the increased level of spend, which I think I heard earlier, why the need for that spend and under an environment of SG&A being down year over year are you actually robbing from one product to actually support of another? That may be wise, but I would love some color.

And secondly, Roger, beyond anti-PD-1 in the immuno regulatory arena, does Merck have other molecules which they are pursuing or actually have in development? Thanks very much.

ALEX KELLY: Adam, would you like to start?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Absolutely. So our goal is to maximize each and every growth opportunity that we have on our most important growth products and our most important growth markets. And we really do invest our SG&A to go after the opportunities that exist before us.

JANUVIA obviously is an extremely important product for us. We think there is significant opportunity with diabetes prevalence and we are going to invest in order to make sure that as many patients that can benefit from the product have access to the product.

So we are committed to investing behind that product, not at the expense of other growth opportunities, but in addition to other growth opportunities. Part of the increased resources is actually an increased level of focus. So we actually have more dedicated people in order to maximize the opportunities for each of the classes.

So in the United States, for example, we have many more people that are fully dedicated to our diabetes franchise where before they might have had part of their time on diabetes and part of their time on cardiovascular. We have now made sure we have more dedicated people to each of the growth opportunities before us. So I think it is an increased level of focus as much as anything else.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: And with respect to the immuno regulatory molecules, the answer is yes. We have a broad effort looking at immuno regulation. I think others have probably heard me speak about this before, but there is no more effective method of killing cancer cells than by harnessing cytotoxic T cells, period. It is just very difficult for tumor cells to escape that kind of attack.

And that is such a profound observation that it has catalyzed our work -- of course the work of others too, but our work in particular. And we'll have a lot more to say about that going forward.

ALEX KELLY: Last question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Bank of America.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: (Technical difficulty) these pressures that keeping up one last time. I wanted to make sure I'm understanding which of these pressures are shorter term versus perhaps new realities of the business and longer lasting. It seems like FX is what it is, de-stocking happens from time to time; loss of exclusivity effects should not surprise you frankly or if they have in certain countries they will never again.

So I want to make sure that I'm not missing anything that is new that you might be factoring into your longer-term models that you haven't sort of guided for yet. And then for Roger, by when will you announce key decisions on the pipeline? And your preliminary thoughts on Biosimilars conceptually -- I assume you had something to do with Amgen's thinking there and how that evolved? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, so, Gregg, I think you have outlined what we said the most important issues that we're facing right now. In the patent expiries you learn as you see them come. We haven't seen such rapid loss at the rate of loss that we've seen with a product like SINGULAIR in the US. I mentioned it in the fourth quarter, but even in first quarter of this year if you saw, we had $1 million of sales of SINGULAIR in the United States. So we learned from that. We understand that as we model for the future and think about the future obviously.

Hepatitis C, frankly it depended on what the data was going to look like from the all oral therapy. So it was very difficult to predict what that data would look like and therefore what the response would be in terms of physicians and warehousing. So that is something we have to watch closely and as more data becomes available on all oral therapies we will certainly learn a lot more.

And then I mentioned as before the JANUVIA impact -- I've tried to give you guidance for what we see in terms of mid-single-digit growth in the US as we go through this year and low-double-digit growth outside the US. So we tried to provide you as much information about what we know in the short-term and as we look out into the future.

ROGER PERLMUTTER: Yes, with respect to key decisions on the pipeline, this is going to be a rolling process of course. MRL is a large and complex organization and we have an awful lot of programs to review. But you can anticipate that I'm not going to take forever here. So within the next three to six months we are going to roll out a number of different I think approaches to the variety of very, very important medical objectives that we are pursuing.

Also with respect to the Biosimilar issue that you called out in particular, I am very pleased with the deal that we've made with Samsung. I know that team well, I had the opportunity to speak with them previously. I know what their capabilities are like and what they have invested behind it. I think it will give us commercial access globally to a large slate of Biosimilar products that we'll be able to take advantage of.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Ken, I don't know if you have any closing remarks?

KEN FRAZIER: Well, first of all I thank you all for hanging in there for an extended call. Just to wrap up I'll make three points.

First of all, we knew that 2013 would be challenging but we are confident about the future and we believe the second half of this year will be a better indicator of the strength of our business.

Second, we are managing our cost base and taking actions to strengthen our overall organizational capabilities including, as Roger said several times, in R&D that will allow Merck to be more successful in what will be the future healthcare environment.

And finally, as I always say, we are committed to creating shareholder value in the short-term and in the longer-term. So, thank you very much for your attention and staying a little bit longer. We look forward to speaking with you in the future. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
iinsulin : Diabetes Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty : Drugs/Medication | ihormp : Hormone Products
   NS
c133 : Patents | c151 : Earnings | gdias : Diabetes | ntra : Transcripts | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130508e951002ut
  


 HD
 Q4  2012  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,432 words
   PD
1 February 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's fourth-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, SVP IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Jackie. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Merck's fourth-quarter 2012 conference call. Before I turn the call over to Ken, I just want to point out a couple of items.

First, you'll see that we have items in our GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs, and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded those items from our non-GAAP results. There are reconciliation tables available in our press release so you can get a better understanding of the underlying performance.

We have also provided tables to help you understand the sales results in the quarter, based for the business units and also for the products. That is in Table 3 of our press release, and the reconciliation table I mentioned is in Table 2 of our earnings release. During the call, we will be referring to primarily Table 2 for the P&L and Table 13 as it relates to revenue.

Second, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call might be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2011 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. And you can see our SEC filings as well as today's earnings release on Merck.com.

This morning, I am joined by Ken Frazier, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Peter Kim, President of Merck Research Labs; Adam Schechter, our President of Global Human Health; and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. With that, I would like to introduce Ken Frazier.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining the call today. I am pleased to be with you today.

As we close out 2012, we see continued evidence that our focus on a core growth strategy to create shareholder value has us on the right track. We expected that 2012 would be a challenging year, particularly with the SINGULAIR patent expiry as well as pricing and austerity challenges. Despite these challenges, we were able to maintain our top-line and 2011 levels without resetting our revenue base, as we committed to you at this time last year. We also committed to continuing to reduce our cost structure in order to deliver a leveraged P&L, and it is clear that we delivered on both fronts.

By driving growth in our broad product portfolio and reducing costs, we were able not only to absorb the impacts of a challenging year but also reinvest for future growth. In addition, we returned more than $7.5 billion to shareholders last year by increasing our dividend 11% and increasing our share repurchase level to $2.6 billion.

In 2012, we also said that we would advance the pipeline, and we did just that. Although we were disappointed by the outcome of the HPS2-THRIVE trial, we successfully completed four new drug applications last year, with more on the way this year.

Before I continue I would like to turn the call over to Peter Kim, who will provide a brief update regarding odanacatib. Peter?

PETER KIM, EVP, PRESIDENT - MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken, and good morning, everyone. As you will recall, last July the Data Monitoring Committee for the fracture trial recommended the pivotal study be closed and the extension study, which includes more than 8,000 women, continue. We have just recently received data from the pivotal study but do not have data from the ongoing extension trial.

We have decided to include data from the extension study in our filings for regulatory approvals. The extension study is double blinded. Patients and investigators are blinded.

Our plans to present the data are dependent on our need to maintain the blind in order to file. Therefore, we do not intend to present the results of the pivotal study, and we do not intend to provide additional information on safety or efficacy until after we have locked the database for the filings. We will then present the data at an appropriate scientific meeting.

Let me underscore that we continue to believe in the potential of odanacatib to address unmet medical needs for patients with osteoporosis and look forward to filing in 2014. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Thank you, Peter. As we begin 2013, we face higher hurdles for patent expirations and many of the same external challenges we saw last year. Nevertheless, we are well positioned to meet those challenges, with the growth of our underlying portfolio and our four-part growth strategy.

Our strategy provides solid footing for navigating marketplace volatility, weathering the inherent unpredictability of innovative R&D, and driving shareholder value. Once again, our team's ability to execute our strategy well gives us confidence that we can maintain sales near prior-year levels on a constant-currency basis.

The breadth and strength of our product portfolio was a significant contributor to our overall growth last year. On the Human Health side, pharmaceutical sales grew 1% for the year, excluding exchange, and 5% excluding exchange and SINGULAIR. As always, Adam will share more details about our key growth drivers and their performance.

While our key growth drivers continue to perform well in established markets, there also remain additional growth opportunities for many of these products as we continue to expand geographically, the second component of our core strategy. Emerging markets grew 13% for the year, excluding the impact of foreign exchange and the 2011 REMICADE settlement. We are driving growth organically from our existing portfolio.

In 2012, our sales in China alone grew 22% ex-exchange, to cross the $1 billion mark. In 2013, we see continued benefit across the emerging markets from the growth of our product portfolio as well as the contributions we are beginning to realize from our joint ventures such as Simcere in China and Supera Farma in Brazil.

The third component of our strategy is to extend into complementary businesses. For us, that means Animal Health and Consumer Care. Our Animal Health business grew 9% ex-exchange last year, and our Consumer Care business grew 7% ex-exchange, which outpaced overall consumer market growth in several markets.

Our Animal Health and Consumer Care businesses are complementary with our core Human Health business. We are a leader in many categories in both Animal Health and Consumer Care, and we intend to leverage that leadership to grow these businesses to enhance the overall performance of the Company. The recently announced first-cycle FDA approval of OXYTROL, a prescription-to-OTC switch, is just one example of how we can create value in the Consumer business.

Lastly, the fourth element of our strategy is to excel at reducing costs and maintaining a competitive cost structure. In 2012, we achieved our merger synergy target of $3.5 billion net savings.

Importantly, we got the benefit of those synergies while also making investments that over the long term will grow Mark's top line and increase our profitability. For example, when a market opportunity developed we quickly put additional resources behind JANUVIA and JANUMET, which generated greater market share, higher sales, and a very high return on investment.

Over the last three years, we have reduced spending in our base, reinvested for the long term, and steadily improve our operating profit margins. This enables us to prepare for our next wave of product launches. Peter Kellogg will speak more about our 2013 guidance in a few moments.

I would like to turn now to R&D. As I mentioned, in 2012 we had four major filings -- suvorexant, our novel sleep compound; vintafolide in the EU for ovarian cancer; our combination of ZETIA and atorvastatin; and sugammadex, which is marketed as BRIDION outside the US.

For 2013, we plan multiple additional filings including V503, a vaccine that expands protection against certain HPV-associated cancers, and two allergy immunotherapy products -- one for grass allergies, which was recently submitted, and another for ragweed allergies.

Beyond our anticipated regulatory filings, we also expect to advance our pipeline this year. This follows two Phase III starts last year, our once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor and our monoclonal antibody for the treatment of psoriasis. We also moved our BACE inhibitor for Alzheimer's disease into a Phase II/III program in November and advanced our PD-1 candidate for cancer to the Phase II. Our priority is turning cutting-edge science, both within our labs and externally, into innovative medicines and vaccines.

During the course of 2012, we completed more than 60 business development transactions. While we have traditionally been very good at creating value with early-stage transactions, two good examples of transactions involving late-stage candidates with significant commercial potential are AiCuris and Endocyte. For 2013, our goal remains to seek out those assets at all phases of development that help position us for success in key therapeutic areas where we choose to compete and which can be attained on terms that create shareholder value.

In closing, Merck had a good fourth quarter and a strong year overall. As we begin 2013, our top-line performance targets remain as challenging as ever, as we seek to overcome the patent expirations and macro challenges facing our Company. We will accomplish this by continuing to execute with key growth products and in key geographies, advancing and augmenting our pipeline, and continuing to meet the evolving needs of customers around the world.

We will deliver this while driving a culture of continuous productivity improvements so that we can continue to invest in the future and deliver shareholder value over the long term. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to now turn the call over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP, PRESIDENT - GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken; good morning, everyone. It's a pleasure to speak with you today. This morning I will provide you with an overview of Global Human Health results for 2012, and I'll also touch on the 2013 outlook.

In 2012, Global Human Health delivered on the objective that we established at the beginning of the year. With strong growth of our key brands, we were able to maintain our $41 billion top line versus the prior year on a constant-currency basis.

That is despite more than a $1.6 billion decline in SINGULAIR sales driven by the US patent expiry. Excluding SINGULAIR and the impact of foreign exchange, GHH sales grew 5% in 2012. GHH contributed $1.9 billion to the top line.

In the fourth quarter, Human Health sales declined 6%, largely due to SINGULAIR. If you exclude SINGULAIR and the impact of foreign exchange, underlying sales grew by 5%. Underlying growth was driven by key brands and by key markets.

2012 was a year of strong execution. We have executed on our strategic priorities of growing the core, expanding the core, and accelerating new launches. I will now provide more details about the key aspects of our performance this quarter, beginning with execution on our core business, which includes the largest markets, our core brand, and our launch brands.

Let me start with the United States, where sales were adversely affected by the SINGULAIR patent expiry. Excluding the sales of SINGULAIR, the portfolio had strong growth of 10% for the year and 7% in the fourth quarter. The US performance was driven by double-digit growth of JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, GARDASIL, and ZOSTAVAX.

Moving to our business in Europe and Canada, on a full-year basis, sales in Europe and Canada declined by 4%, excluding exchange. Fourth-quarter sales in Europe and Canada declined by 2% ex-exchange.

We continue to have good volume growth, and we are growing faster than the market in most EU countries. But the business continues to be affected by macroeconomic issues. Volume growth from brands such as JANUVIA and JANUMET, REMICADE and SIMPONI, and VICTRELIS only partially offset price decreases, other austerity measures, and increased generic erosion.

Moving on now to several core brands, I'll start with the JANUVIA and JANUMET franchise, which continued to perform very well this quarter, with sales of $1.6 billion and 20% growth, excluding exchange. The growth of JANUVIA is broad-based, and we continue to see volume growth in every region of the world.

The JANUVIA and JANUMET franchise combined grew 15% United States and 25% excluding exchange outside of the US. Despite multiple competitors in the market, the JANUVIA family retained over a 70% share of the global DPP-4 market.

On a full-year basis, JANUVIA and JANUMET sales reached $5.7 billion. Our diabetes franchise now has achieved the distinction of being the highest-selling product family on an annual basis in Merck's history. But more importantly, there continues to be opportunities to grow.

Moving to ISENTRESS, ISENTRESS continues to be an important core brand for Merck. US sales grew 11% in the fourth quarter.

Despite new competition in the US market, we have maintained our patient share. That means that competition is sourcing primarily from other classes.

Outside of the US, ISENTRESS sales declined 10%, ex-exchange. But I would like to note that a major factor behind this decline was the timing of emerging market tenders. We anticipate a return to growth in these markets.

In our cholesterol franchise, ZETIA and VYTORIN global sales grew 1%, excluding exchange. ZETIA grew 7% globally, which was offset by a decline in VYTORIN sales.

We recently announced a resubmission of the NDA for Atozet, the ZETIA and atorvastatin combination. We look forward to hearing from the FDA this year.

Moving to immunology, the combined immunology business with REMICADE and SIMPONI grew 18% in the quarter, excluding exchange. SIMPONI remains an important launch brand, with $95 million of sales in the quarter. We recently launched SIMPONI in France and Russia, and we continue to be optimistic about SIMPONI's future growth potential, competing with other subcutaneous anti-TNFs.

Moving on to vaccines, vaccines had another strong quarter of double-digit growth. GARDASIL maintained its strong performance with over 50% growth year-over-year, driven in part by about $50 million of higher public-sector purchases.

There are a number of other factors contributing to the growth this quarter. First, continued uptake of the male indication in the United States; second, strong uptake of the Japan launch; and third, the timing of government purchases in the emerging markets. Since first launch in 2006, 100 million doses of GARDASIL have now been distributed around the world.

Moving on to ZOSTAVAX, sales of ZOSTAVAX were $225 million in the quarter. We continue to see a very positive response to our promotional efforts and good uptake by patients presenting during the flu season.

We anticipate there will be a cyclical nature to this business, with the flu season being the largest opportunity. This year the flu season has extended into January.

We saw strong demand in January. However, we would expect that demand in February and March will decline on a sequential basis.

We continue to see ZOSTAVAX as a good growth driver. We estimate that only about 20% of the US population ages 60 and older have received the vaccine. In addition, we continue to anticipate ex-US launches beginning later this year.

Now I would like to highlight how we are executing against our strategy of expanding geographically into key high-growth markets. So let's begin with the emerging markets.

On a full-year basis, emerging market sales grew 8% ex-exchange. If you also exclude REMICADE sales in the relinquished territories, emerging market sales grew 13% on a full-year basis.

In the fourth quarter, emerging market sales reached $2 billion, up 9%, and represented 20% of GHH sales. Growth in the emerging markets was broad-based and it was across much of our portfolio. In key emerging markets our growth is outpacing overall market growth.

China continues to be an important growth driver, reaching over $1 billion in sales in 2012. China sales ex-exchange grew 22% for the full year and about 30% in the quarter. The growth was driven by many products across different therapeutic areas, including diversified brands and core brands.

Moving to Japan, growth in Japan ex-exchange was 6% for the year and 9% in the fourth quarter. Strong growth of JANUVIA, GARDASIL, ZETIA, and hospital products more than offset the biannual price cuts earlier this year. It also offset the generic competition for COZAAR/HYZAAR and FOSAMAX. Looking ahead, we believe we have opportunity for strong growth in Japan.

Now moving on to launch brands. Our launch products in total contributed more than $750 million in revenue for the full-year 2012. They also represented greater than $200 million this quarter.

VICTRELIS global sales were $115 million this quarter, over 30% higher than the prior year. A decline in US sales was more than offset by growth in international markets.

We continue to have strong share, over a 40% TRx share in the United States and well over a 50% share of patient days of therapy across international markets. While we are pleased with our global market shares, we are seeing a contraction in some of the early launch markets, such as the United States and France. In these markets there are still a considerable number of patients that need treatment, and we are working on market development activities.

Now moving on to 2013. This year we have a lot of work to do to drive the top line in face of a number of challenges. Those challenges include the full-year effect of the loss of SINGULAIR exclusivity in the United States; the loss of SINGULAIR EU exclusivity beginning later this month; other US patent expiries including MAXALT and PROPECIA; and continued austerity measures around the world.

In addition, we will also be preparing for a number of launches, and 2013 will be the following. First, continue to launch VICTRELIS in international markets; launch GARDASIL in Japan and ZOSTAVAX. Second, if approved, we will launch sugammadex and Atozet in the United States in the second half of the year. And third, begin to invest in important market development activities for future launches.

So 2013 is shaping up to be a very busy year. In closing, Global Human Health continued to drive strong performance from its diverse portfolio. We met our goal of maintaining the top line on a constant-currency basis, overcoming the effects of the US SINGULAIR patent expiry.

We believe the business momentum of our key brands and growth in markets around the world positions us well in 2013. Our base is strong, our base is diverse, and our base continues to grow. We also have many exciting opportunities in the near term that should position us well for future growth.

Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam, and good morning. In the fourth quarter, we continued to execute against our strategy, and we achieved the financial targets we laid out at the beginning of 2012. We accomplished a great deal and are ready to take on 2013 as we prepare for the launch of our next wave of new products.

Ken and Adam have talked about our sales performance in the fourth-quarter and full-year 2012. As Adam described, the Merck team overcame significant revenue headwinds in 2012 to grow the top line 1%, excluding foreign exchange, on a full-year basis. We are proud of our accomplishment on the top line.

In addition to our top-line accomplishments, we achieved full-year EPS growth, including about a $750 million reduction of our operating expenses in 2012.

Now, before I discuss our 2013 outlook, I would like to review the operating results in the fourth quarter. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials, which exclude acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs, and certain other items.

On this basis, we earned $0.83 per share this quarter. While we replaced much of the SINGULAIR sales decline in this quarter, as Adam described, we replaced those sales with a basket of products that have a somewhat lower gross margin. As a result, our non-GAAP gross margin declined on a year-over-year basis to 75%.

And with more expiries coming in addition to what we saw in the fourth quarter, this mix shift is expected to continue in 2013 as we work through the EU SINGULAIR expiry and the expiry of MAXALT and PROPECIA. In fact, in the early part of the year we expect that there will be some downward pressure from this level. On a full-year basis, however, the fourth-quarter gross margin is a good barometer for you to consider for 2013.

Turning to marketing and administrative expenses, our fourth-quarter SG&A expenses were $300 million lower than the prior year. More than one-third of the benefit was due to a decrease in corporate charges such as legal defense reserves. There was also a $50 million benefit from foreign exchange.

In addition, we reduced direct selling expenses and promotional spending in developed markets. These developed market reductions were partially offset by increased investments in the emerging markets.

On a full-year basis, SG&A spending decreased by $900 million in 2012. While this included about a $300 million benefit from foreign exchange, management actions ahead of the SINGULAIR patent expiration reduced our SG&A spending by more than $600 million.

Over the past three years, we have significantly reduced the level of SG&A spending. In fact, considering that half of the net merger synergies came from SG&A, we have reduced our base SG&A by about $1.75 billion.

While we are continuing to be very disciplined about spending, we don't expect to see further reductions in 2013. In fact, SG&A may increase slightly in 2013 as we, first, invest in emerging markets to grow our core while we build out our joint ventures; second, invest to maintain our leadership position in competitive markets like diabetes; third, invest in near-term launches like sugammadex; and finally, invest in future launches like suvorexant and odanacatib. We also expect a reversal in some of the exchange favorability that we saw in 2012.

Moving to R&D, research and development expenses in the fourth quarter were about $70 million higher year-over-year due to the $140 million upfront payment to AiCuris for the CMV program. So what we are seeing in the fourth quarter and also on a full-year basis is that we are getting more and more disciplined and efficient in our R&D base and bringing in new programs from the outside. For example, absent the AiCuris upfront payment, R&D expenses were slightly lower in the fourth quarter, and on a full-year basis our R&D expense would have been about $100 million lower than 2011 if we exclude the upfront payments for AiCuris and Endocyte.

Moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 23.6% in the fourth quarter, and the full-year 2012 rate was 23.8%. This is lower than our prior guidance primarily due to a favorable ruling on a state tax matter in the fourth quarter.

Now let's turn to 2013. Against a backdrop of an even bigger patent expiry impact, we are targeting to hold 2013 sales near the 2012 level on a constant-currency basis. We will be investing to drive the top line and prepare for new product launches. The changes expected in non-GAAP EPS are primarily due to the gross margin mix shift that I discussed earlier and investments to drive the top line.

Now let's turn to our guidance as outlined in our earnings release. As noted, our 2013 non-GAAP EPS guidance range is $3.60 to $3.70. Similar to our guidance in 2012, we expect that the underlying operating momentum of Merck's business will allow us to maintain our full-year 2013 revenues near 2012 levels on a constant-currency basis. Now at current exchange rates, sales would be affected unfavorably by about 1% to 2% as weakness in the yen more than offsets improving euro exchange rates.

We expect to offset the patent expiries we face in 2013 with growth from JANUVIA, JANUMET, our vaccines, and other products as well as Animal Health and Consumer health, and the fast-growth markets such as certain emerging markets and Japan.

On R&D expenses, we expect our 2013 non-GAAP R&D expenses to be about the same as the 2012 level on a full-year basis.

The final element I will discuss is the tax rate. Our 2013 non-GAAP guidance of 21% to 23% includes the benefit of both the 2012 and the 2013 R&D tax credits. For planning purposes, you should assume that the 2012 credit will be realized in the first quarter and the credit for 2013 will be realized proportionately over all four quarters.

Speaking of the quarters, with additional patent expiries for MAXALT in the US and SINGULAIR in Europe during the first quarter of 2013, we think that the first quarter of 2013 will look a lot like the fourth quarter of 2012 from a bottom-line perspective. The subsequent quarters should improve from that level.

So to summarize our 2013 outlook, our operations are strong and our non-GAAP EPS guidance is between $3.60 and $3.70. On a GAAP basis, we expect to earn between $2.03 and $2.26.

In conclusion, in 2012 our goal was to drive through the SINGULAIR patent expiration. We were able to maintain our sales line despite the expiry impact by driving growth of key products and increasing sales in the fast-growth markets. This required commercial investment in certain growth products, which was offset by reduced operating expenses elsewhere.

This was a very ambitious and outstanding performance on the part of our Merck team. In addition, we brought in new R&D programs and advanced our internal R&D pipeline.

We are well prepared and confident that we are on the right track to execute our strategy in 2013 as we prepare the market for our next wave of growth-driving product launches. Thank you, and now I would like to turn the call back over to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter. Now we would like to open up the call to take your questions about our quarter. But in order to help us get through as many questions as possible, please limit yourself to one or two questions; and note that we will not be taking follow-up questions. You are, however, welcome to rejoin the queue if you have additional questions. Jackie, we are ready for the Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: A couple of questions. On odanacatib, you have talked about safety obviously in the past, and today you said the filing will slip. Without telling us what that safety issue is exactly, can you at least tell us whether that safety concern is a theoretical one, or whether there has actually been a signal of some sort that you have seen in the data that you have in hand?

Then on ZETIA/atorvastatin, I look at that as normally a lower-risk application. But given the controversies with ZETIA in the past I would have to imagine FDA doesn't take any final action until they have results from IMPROVE-IT. So the fact that you are saying FDA should complete its review by midyear might suggest that IMPROVE-IT could wrap up at this next interim look in March.

So I am wondering if I am thinking about this correctly in terms of IMPROVE-IT potentially stopping at the interim look. And can you just reiterate your level of confidence in the outcome of IMPROVE-IT, whenever it stops?

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Tim, for that question. I would like to turn it over to Peter; but just to reiterate, we continue to believe in the future benefit that is possibly associated with coming forward with both of those drugs. So let me turn it over to Peter.

PETER KIM: Thanks, Ken; and thanks, Tim for the question. Tim, as you know, in July we announced that the Data Monitoring Committee, the DMC, for the study completed its first planned interim analysis and they recommended that the study be closed early due to robust efficacy and a favorable benefit/risk profile.

As a result of that we made the decision to begin to take steps to close out the pivotal trial. And as you note, we also said that the DMC noted that safety issues remain in certain select areas, and that they made recommendations with respect to following up on that.

At that point, we reiterated the fact that our previously announced plan to conduct a blinded extension trial would allow us to further monitor these issues, as well as to continue to measure efficacy. Really, at this point in time, that is all we can say. We are going to be conducting, as I say, that extension trial in the double-blinded manner, and we anticipate filing in 2014.

With regard to Atozet, the combination of ZETIA with atorvastatin, what I would say there is that that file has now gone in. It is a re-filing, as we have now conducted the clinical efficacy study to show that we are clinically -- with regard to clinical efficacy we have bioequivalence to the individual components alone.

And, of course, the individual combination of ZETIA with atorvastatin is something that is in the label. It is currently being used. So what we are talking about is a combination of convenience.

And with regard to IMPROVE-IT, you are correct; the Data Monitoring Committee for IMPROVE-IT, as you know, requested that there be another interim analysis. That interim analysis is currently scheduled for March, and we will see what happens there.

With regard to confidence I'd just reiterate, as I have before, that we are very confident that lowering LDL cholesterol is a good thing to do for cardiovascular health.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much. Staying with odanacatib and then a couple of other pipeline questions, Peter, while we have you. You reemphasized or re-read the July press release by saying that the DMC, when they reached 70% of the key events -- so it is roughly at least 166 events that would have occurred out of the 16,000 patients. But the question is, in the release also it states that you would file in '13.

The notion of the extension study was documented. So I guess the question is -- was the anticipation at the time to file on the existing data set without the extension study? And then what changed to then therefore include the extension study, if it was to have been included all along? Is it just simply taking longer than you would have assumed?

And then two brief comments, if I may. Will we get any readout on the PD-1 in melanoma this calendar year? And also on the BACE inhibitor in the Phase II in Alzheimer's. Thanks very much.

PETER KIM: Thank you, Tony. You are correct that in July we said that we anticipated filing odanacatib in 2013. As I said, we have just recently received the data from the pivotal study. We do not have any data from the ongoing extension study.

But we have made the decision to include data from the extension study in our filings for regulatory approvals. So that is really what I can say about that.

With regard to PD-1, I'll begin by saying that this is a very exciting mechanism and that actually unleashing the immune system so that it can now attack tumors is a very exciting area of research. And we are certainly excited about our PD-1 inhibitor, MK-3475, which is still early in development, but which has shown significant improvement in patient outcomes.

We reported recently on over -- I think on 85 melanoma patients that were on our monotherapy. And we saw a 51% objective anti-tumor response. So that is really what we know right now.

We have not made a final decision as to what it is that we want -- we are going to be presenting this year, although I certainly anticipate that we will present additional data at the ASCO meeting as we move forward.

So I will just say stay tuned. We certainly are very excited by this program. We are pleased with the data that we have seen to date, and we do anticipate presenting additional data later this year.

With regard to the BACE inhibitor, which as you also know we are very excited about, the key developments from 2012 were, first of all, that we were able to show that one can lower CSF A-beta levels in people by over 90% without having untoward effects. And that was a new result. Really we had not known previously if you could lower CSF A-beta by those sorts of levels and not have something show up which was untoward.

So that then gave us the confidence to kick off a Phase II/III outcomes trial in Alzheimer's patients, and that has now started. The design of that trial is to begin by enrolling an initial cohort of patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease; and then after a set period of time to look for any safety issues that would preclude us from moving forward to Phase III; and absent any of those safety issues that would preclude us from moving into Phase III, to then move in a seamless manner into Phase III in the mild to moderate patient population.

At the same time, such a move would kick off our plans to conduct a study in what is called the prodromal patient population. The prodromal population are basically patients with mild cognitive impairment, or MCI, that -- as judged by biomarkers -- have a higher propensity to progress to Alzheimer's disease, to frank Alzheimer's disease, in a shorter period of time. And as you may have seen, we have announced a deal with GE to use their PET ligand to identify patients with MCI that fall into this prodromal category. We will use their PET ligand and take advantage of the infrastructure that they are helping to establish, to allow us to enroll a prodromal Phase III study with our BACE inhibitor.

So that is really the upshot of where things exist. We will conduct an interim analysis of the safety cohort, as I said, and we expect this interim analysis of the safety cohort to occur by the end of 2013.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks very much. I realize you guys can't comment too much on odanacatib, but can I just maybe try a different way? Is the signal that you are seeing here something that your raises your excitement in the commercial prospects of this drug, if it is in fact approved?

Then the second question on PD-1, just following up on those comments, how far would you estimate you are behind Bristol's development program at this point? Is there any way you can further accelerate your development of PD-1 in melanoma? And should we think about other indications moving into Phase II in 2013 beyond melanoma? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me start with the first question, Chris. As we said earlier, a decision that has been made with respect to odanacatib is to include data from the extension study when we file for regulatory approval. Then we continue to believe in the potential of this drug to meet the unmet needs that exist for patients with osteoporosis and we look forward to filing it in 2014. So I think that is the most that we can say about that.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Chris, this is Adam. The thing I also want to remind you is that there are 200 million women worldwide with osteoporosis, and only 20% of them are treated today. It is a $10 billion market prior to generic Fosamax.

And if you remember that about 25% of patients can't even tolerate the bisphosphonates, and bisphosphonate use is declining, so it remains a very big, important market.

PETER KIM: This is Peter, Chris. Thank you for the question and to all of you, I hope you understand that really I am not trying to be difficult; it is just that our plans to present the data really are dependent on our need to maintain the blind so that we can file this file. So therefore we are really not in a position to speak to additional information on safety or efficacy as we move forward here.

With regard to PD-1, as I said, this is something that we are excited. We are excited about the profile of our molecule MK-3475 and what we have seen so far.

In terms of how far behind we are, I think we are very committed to this program. We won't -- I'm not really going to speak to the competitors' programs, except to say that obviously we are very interested in being very competitive in this arena.

In terms of our commitment to PD-1, I can tell you that we are very committed to this mechanism and to this molecule. You know that we have already shown results on melanoma. We have started a very large Phase II study, which as you can see on ClinicalTrials.gov involves over 500 patients.

We have a study in non-small cell lung cancer which is currently in Phase I. And without going into any details because -- for competitive reasons, we are very interested in being smart about what additional indications we move into. And that is something that is certainly of great interest.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: I guess one more thing on odanacatib. Peter, you mentioned what has changed, I guess, since the last time we have heard you all talk is that you have actually seen a data analysis. It's the first time we have heard you say that. So I was curious if you made this decision alone, or if you talked to the FDA and you made the decision to wait for this additional data.

And secondly, can you remind us on the psoriasis drug that you are working on, what the hook is there and why you believe that is going to be a very important product when it hits the market?

PETER KIM: Thank you, Marc. With regard to odanacatib, as I said we received the data; and the decision to wait and include data from the extension study in our filings was a decision that was made internally by Merck in consultation with a small number of external experts, and not something that was done in consultation with the FDA. So that is an internal decision that we made.

With regard to psoriasis, this is an anti-IL-23 antibody, and it is one that we have -- obviously we have gotten good results in psoriasis, which is why it is that we are moving forward into Phase III. The proof of principle for this mechanism, the IL-23, actually comes from another drug that is currently marketed, and that is Stelara or ustekinumab, which works by blocking both IL-23 and IL-12. In contrast to that drug which blocks both IL-23 and IL-12, our drug is specific for blocking just IL-23.

There are theoretical issues having to do with preclinical studies and genetic studies in preclinical animals, which point to two specific infections that are at increased risk in preclinical studies, which include mycobacteria, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and salmonella infections. And I want to emphasize these are preclinical studies. But what we're trying to do here is develop an antibody which is more specific and targets the cytokine that is important in psoriasis, namely IL-23, and do so in a specific manner.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Marc, just to add some context from a marketing perspective, if you look at the world-wide psoriasis market, it's expected to grow from about $4.5 billion in 2011 to almost $8 billion in 2018. It affects about 2% to 3% of the global population.

If you look at the patients that are impacted, about 25% of them suffer moderate to severe disease that could require potentially more aggressive treatment with phototherapy or systemic therapy. If you look at -- even with the advances of anti-TNFs and the fact that it is a life non-life-threatening nature of psoriasis, we think that additional systemic agents that can have an improved risk/benefit profile potentially, compared to the current biologics, would represent a very significant opportunity.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question. I have yet another question on odanacatib. I apologize in advance, Peter.

Can you just clarify? Does the Company know what the safety issues are specifically that the DMC highlighted, that the DMC is watching?

And then my second question is totally unrelated. Maybe, Ken, can you just talk a little bit about your plans for the Animal Health business? Obviously Zoetis IPO-ing today, looks like P/E is going to be somewhere in the mid to high teens, substantial P/E premium to where Merck's shares are trading right now. If indeed that P/E holds over time, what would be your rationale for not mimicking what Pfizer has done? Thank you very much.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Peter, do you want to start?

PETER KIM: Sure. Mark, really what I can say is that we have seen the data of the pivotal trial, and we have studied the data from the pivotal trial, and we have decided -- we have made the decision to include data from the extension study in our filings for regulatory approval. I will just reiterate again that we continue to believe in the potential of odanacatib in patients with osteoporosis and look forward to filing that in 2014.

KEN FRAZIER: As it relates to our Animal Health business, I think you could see from this quarter's performance it is a very strong contributor to Merck's overall performance. And from our perspective, we are committed to this business.

We think it is a good fit with our overall business. The research that we do in Vaccines and other parts of our business we think actually dovetail nicely with this business. I think as we stand here today we think it is a very good, profitable business and one that actually contributes very strongly to Merck while remaining in its own right one of the leaders in the Animal Health space.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Morning and thank you for taking the questions. You mentioned that you are just beginning to realize the contributions from emerging markets, your joint ventures. Would you help us, I guess, quantify the upside potential there?

Then, quickly on hep C and 5172, how would you describe your strategy in hep C given how fast the market is evolving? Do you believe you have all the necessary pieces in your early-stage pipeline, or are you looking for external assets to complement 5172? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Adam, you want to start?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Alex. So a few thoughts on emerging markets. We continue to believe that there is significant potential for growth in the emerging markets. And our strategy has been one to make sure that we maximize our current core brands, which includes our diversified brands, our large in-line brands, and also our launch brands; but in addition to that we believe that there is potential growth opportunities from joint ventures in some of these markets.

We have formed multiple joint ventures of which two are up and running as we speak. If you look in China we have a joint venture with Simcere, and I attended the launch meeting where we had several hundred sales representatives for that joint venture, very motivated, very energized, and working across both companies in order to maximize some of the diversified brands.

If you look in Brazil we have our joint venture with Supera up and running. There again we have a very sizable sales force that is really working together on diversified brands.

When I think about them, I think of them as part of our ability to continue our momentum in the emerging markets. I don't think of it as a step-change where you should start to see a big increase at any point in time.

Instead, it is the way in which we are running our business. It allows us to continue to grow. And our goal has been and will continue to be to grow faster than the overall market in each of the markets that we competes in the emerging markets.

I believe that the joint ventures will allow us to continue to be successful and continue the momentum we have in those markets.

ALEX KELLY: Peter?

PETER KIM: Thanks, Alex, for that question. As you point out, this is a fast-moving field. We certainly are aggressively pursuing new and more convenient and interferon-free therapies.

Our focus is on MK-5172, our protease inhibitor, which we think is going to be the cornerstone of treatment regimens moving forward, and we are interested in using that drug in combination with either internal candidates like MK-8742, our NS5A inhibitor, or in partnership with others. I will just emphasize that our goal is to develop an all-oral regimen that maximizes SVR and shortens the duration of therapy and minimizes side effects.

We recently announced, and you can see it on ClinicalTrials.gov, two new clinical trials. The first is a 12-week regimen that contains MK-5172, our potent protease inhibitor, as well as MK-8742, which is our oral NS5A inhibitor, plus or minus ribavirin. And that is in HCV genotype 1 patients.

The second trial that we announced and that is posted right now that we are going to conduct is a study of MK-5172 alone in combination with ribavirin in either 12- or 24-week regimens. For this trial, we are conducting this in HCV genotype 1 patients with an IL-28 CC genotype. The point being that if we are not able to reach -- achieve SVR with these patients because they have an IL-28 CC genotype, they are at a much higher propensity of being cured using the normal PEG-riba regimen. So together with the FDA we worked out a strategy by which we can actually test a much more aggressive regimen, which is MK-5172 alone with ribavirin in patients.

Of course, we also have our other protease inhibitor, MK-7009, that is ongoing in Japan and showing very good progression.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, operator. I think we have time for two more questions, please.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning. A couple of questions. Firstly, given the margin pressures on your business, I know you have rationalized a number of your manufacturing sites already. There seems to be considerable potential to do more. Perhaps you could remind us the target opportunity and the timing of that.

Then second, with reference to the external opportunities highlighted at the beginning of your press release to augment your growth, perhaps you can remind us, within Pharma, from an M&A perspective, the type of framework you use in assessing assets, a particular size. Many thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me start with the second part first. We look out across a spectrum of opportunities. We try to find the best science that we can find.

Historically, I think we have done our best work in the early stages in identifying targets and projects that are more on the earlier side of the spectrum. But as we have shown this year we are willing to do late-stage deals. We will do them when we are interested in competing in that area and maintaining leadership in that area, and where we think there is significant shareholder value to be obtained.

And I will just turn it over to Peter there.

PETER KELLOGG: Yes, I believe the question was related to the manufacturing network, where we stand at that standpoint. I will just go back quickly to the time of the merger where we had 93 plants globally across all of our businesses -- that is Pharma, Animal Health, and Consumer. And at this point we currently operate in 75 sites around the world, so you can see that we have obviously made a fair bit of progress on the network rationalization.

We are working on plans to further reduce the size of our footprint, but those plans will take some time to implement. As we have always said, we are three years, roughly, into the merger; that some of the items that we synergize and get benefit from come in the first couple years; but that we think the manufacturing network will probably -- we always have said manufacturing and IT type of items take more like four or five, six years even.

So at this point we think that our network consolidation effort will continue into 2016 probably at this point. So much work still to be done, but I think really good progress by the manufacturing network team. And we will be getting benefits from those hard efforts.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Now we will have our final question, please.

OPERATOR: Damien Conover, Morningstar.

DAMIEN CONOVER, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Thanks for getting my question in. Just had a question regarding suvorexant. I think in January of this year the FDA was talking about an increased concern with driving studies for insomnia products. I was just wondering; with the current package that you submitted, do you believe that you have addressed this heightened concern?

Then secondly, just shifting gears to potentially a smaller product for you guys, MK-7243. I think in Europe your partner sells about $30 million. I was just wondering if the opportunity in North America might be larger, just given this is a pretty large indication; but just wasn't sure if was enough differentiation around the product to really see a sizable impact. Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Adam?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes. Let me start with suvorexant. We are not going to comment on the file specifically; but when I think about suvorexant, the first thing to realize is this is a significant need. About 30% of the population has sleep issues, and 30% are chronically treated. It represents about 60% of prescriptions.

We have seen and we have heard through market research multiple times that patients are unsatisfied with existing therapies; that they believe there are residual effects and reduced efficacy over time.

And it is a big market. If you look at the branded drugs, prior to patent expiries it was a multibillion-dollar market. So we believe that a new product like suvorexant coming into the marketplace could really have a significant impact and be an important product for these many patients that are suffering from the inability to sleep.

Regarding the AIT, the allergy immunotherapy, there are about 30 million moderate-to-severe allergy sufferers in the US alone, and that is per year. About 3 million of those receive immunotherapy shots.

Of the ones that are receiving the immunotherapy shots, only 50% of them are still on a medicine 12 months after initiation of therapy. So there is a lot is dissatisfaction. The people do not like getting the shots; they don't typically go back over a longer period of time.

So we view a daily sublingual AIT immunotherapy, as an alternative to shots, as a potential opportunity to increase not only the number of patients that come into the market willing to take a product for their allergy, but also those that will take it over a more sustained period of time.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. Let me close out by thanking you all for your attention this morning. Make a few points in closing.

Merck did have a very strong fourth quarter and a good year overall. Looking forward to this year, we expect that our underlying operating momentum will allow us to continue to maintain our full-year 2013 revenues near 2012 levels on a constant-currency basis.

We are also committed to remain focused on our core strategy and executing it, including advancing and augmenting our pipeline. And today's news that we have decided to include data from the extension study in our filing for regulatory approvals should be one that doesn't cause you to be confused about our commitment. And I would like to underscore that we continue to believe in the potential of odanacatib to address unmet medical needs of patients in osteoporosis; and we also look forward to advancing additional filings and to approvals this year for suvorexant, then capitalize Atozet as well as the sugammadex compound which is marketed as BRIDION.

So thank you very much and we look forward to speaking to you soon.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | gdeme : Dementia | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | gment : Mental Health | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130215e921003h1
  


 HD
 Q3  2012  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,402 words
   PD
26 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to Merck's third-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, SVP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Jackie and good morning, everyone and welcome to Merck's third-quarter 2012 conference call. Before I turn the call over to Ken, I want to mention just a couple of housekeeping items. First, there are a number of items in the GAAP results, such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items and you should note that we have excluded those in our non-GAAP numbers. You can see reconciliation tables for the non-GAAP results in the press release and also in Table 2 of our supplement. We have also provided tables to help you understand the GAAP results and that is in Table 1. The reconciliation tables, as I mentioned, on Table 2 and Table 3 in our press release provides sales performance for the Company, our business units and our products. During the call, we will be referring primarily to Table 2 and Table 3.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The statements are based upon the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. You can see our SEC filings, including the 2011 10-K. They identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements we make today.

I should note that Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement and importantly, you can find our SEC filings, as well as today's press release on our website at Merck.com.

This morning, I am joined by Ken Frazier, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman; Adam Schechter, the President of Global Human Health; and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now I would like to turn it over to Ken Frazier.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining the call today. Our results this quarter reflect the continuing momentum of our underlying business. One year ago, we told you that our intention was to maintain 2012 revenues at or near 2011 levels despite the US SINGULAIR patent expiration. And the Merck team is making good on that commitment.

In the third quarter, we drove growth of our key products and in our key geographies, which offset the impact of the SINGULAIR patent expiration. With one more quarter to go in 2012, our year-to-date sales are up 2%, excluding the impact of exchange. So we are right on track in executing our strategy.

We strongly believe that our four-part strategy provides a sound basis for weathering short-term market volatility and driving longer-term shareholder value. As a reminder, our strategy is focused on executing on our core business, which includes our largest markets, core brands, new launch brands and innovative R&D targeted at therapeutic areas with the greatest future patient demand and scientific opportunity; two, expanding geographic geographically to leverage high-growth markets such as Japan and key emerging markets; three, extending into the complementary businesses of Consumer Care and Animal Health; and four, excelling at managing our costs while continuing to invest for future growth.

We also believe this strategy will allow us to continue doing what Merck does best -- providing innovative products that have demonstrated patient outcomes, provide value to the public and private payers alike and make a real difference for our customers.

In terms of executing our core business, our Companywide sales grew 7% this quarter, excluding SINGULAIR sales globally and foreign exchange. We are pleased with the solid growth across the portfolio, including double-digit growth for a number of our key products.

In terms of expanding geographically, we continue to invest disproportionately in higher growth markets. In the third quarter, emerging market sales grew 15%, excluding exchange. We are also starting to get our joint ventures up and running such as our partnership with Sincere in China, which began operating this quarter. As always, Adam will provide more specific details about our human health performance by product and by geography.

The third part of our strategy is extending into complementary businesses. Our Animal Health business continues as a strong contributor with 7% growth in the third quarter, excluding exchange. Additionally, we launched ACTIVYL in the US, a companion animal health productline for ticks and fleas. Merck Consumer Care grew 10%, excluding exchange. This growth was led by the expansion of our Dr. Scholl's franchise with the launch of the Active series, as well as key skincare brands.

The last element of our strategy is to excel at managing our costs while also investing for growth.

Consistent with our efforts to tightly manage costs, we once again reduced marketing and administrative expenses this quarter. We are committed to driving continuous productivity improvements across the enterprise to help us invest for growth and execute our four-part strategy on an ongoing basis.

Speaking of productivity, let me now turn to R&D and update you on our progress there. We have multiple filings planned between now and the end of 2013. We are on track for four filings in 2012 and even more in 2013. I would like to tell you about are six major programs starting with Suvorexant. Data presented last month from a safety and tolerability study demonstrated that patients who have been taking Suvorexant for 12 months when switched to placebo saw their insomnia return, but without clinically meaningful withdrawal symptoms.

This is significant because what happens when patients stop taking a sleep medication is a key concern for both patients and healthcare professionals. As you know, many insomnia patients have the need for chronic treatment. The safety and efficacy of Suvorexant were evaluated through 12 months in one of the longest continuously dosed placebo-controlled trials of a sleep medication ever conducted.

We also recently presented data from a Phase II trial for Odanacatib, a potential first-in-class treatment for osteoporosis, which, as you know, is a disease that continues to have significant global unmet medical need. In that Phase II trial, treatment with Odanacatib compared to placebo significantly increased bone mineral density over a two-year period in women with osteoporosis who previously had three or more years of treatment with Fosamax. We are on track to submit regulatory applications for Odanacatib in the United States and EU in the first half of 2013 and in Japan in the second half of next year.

In addition to presenting these data for Odanacatib and Suvorexant, we also recently completed all studies for sugammadex requested by the FDA. Sugammadex is known as Bridion outside the US. We are pleased to report that the data support our previously announced plans to resubmit sugammadex to the FDA this year.

Separately, we remain on track for filing vintafolide, a first-in-class innovation for filing in the EU that could have utility in a variety of tumor types, including ovarian and lung cancers. TREDAPTIVE, our novel cholesterol medicine that improves multiple lipid parameters and V503, a vaccine that expands protection against certain HPV-associated cancers by including additional HPV types.

As a reminder, each of these compounds is consistent with our focus on R&D innovation, meaning a clinically differentiated drug that is either first-in-class or potentially best-in-class.

Beyond our anticipated near-term regulatory filings, our pipeline continues to progress with new programs moving into Phase III. For example, we recently started Phase III trials for MK-3102, our once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor and we are on track to start Phase III for MK-3222 for the treatment of psoriasis either later this year or early next year.

In addition, we will soon start Phase II trials with our novel base inhibitor, which we are studying for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

We continue to focus on increasing the productivity of our internal R&D efforts while, at the same time, we're focusing on identifying and accessing external innovation. Just last week, we announced a worldwide licensing agreement with AiCuris for a late-stage antiviral candidate for the treatment and prevention of human cytomegalovirus infection in transplant patients. In addition, in the third quarter, we announced two HIV partnerships with Chimerix and Yamasa for early-stage compounds.

In closing, through the first three quarters of 2012, we have succeeded in maintaining our sales above the 2011 level on an ex-exchange basis. We remain confident in our ability to achieve our 2012 sales and EPS goals even with the full impact of the US SINGULAIR patent expiration.

Many of you are expecting 2013 to be a challenging year. Notwithstanding those challenges, we continue to believe we have the right strategy in place to manage for the long term while, at the same time, we are setting high expectations for ourselves next year.

Like this year, we intend to advance our pipeline. Like this year, we intend to deliver strong performance from our key in-line brands and businesses around the world. And like this year, we intend to continue managing our costs well to enable us to invest for growth, including in our pipeline and in new product launches.

We know that we need to continue to execute in the short term and based on our performance so far this year, you should be confident that we know how to execute on both our short-term and long-term plans. We intend to drive long-term growth and shareholder value. We will do that by continuing to focus on performance and innovation just as we have done this year. I would like now to turn the call over to Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP & PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken. Good morning, everyone. It is a pleasure to speak with you today and to provide you with an overview of Global Human Health results. GHH performance is consistent with the strong results that we have had throughout the year. With continued strong growth of our key brands this quarter, we were able to maintain the top line versus our prior year on a constant currency basis. That is despite the rapid loss of SINGULAIR sales in the United States since early August.

Excluding the sales of SINGULAIR and the impact of foreign exchange, Global Human Health sales grew 8% in the quarter. Our performance was driven by double-digit growth of key brands such as JANUVIA, JANUMET, GARDASIL, VICTRELIS, ZOSTAVAX and ISENTRESS. I will provide more details about the key aspects of our performance according to our strategy and I'll begin with our execution on our core business, which includes our largest markets, our core brands and our launch brands.

Let me start with the United States where sales were adversely affected by the SINGULAIR patent expiry. If you exclude the sales of SINGULAIR, our portfolio had strong growth of 12%. Driving this performance are innovative products with double-digit growth and long exclusivity like JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, GARDASIL, ZOSTAVAX and VICTRELIS.

Moving to our business in Europe and Canada, overall third-quarter sales in Europe and Canada declined 14% or 3% excluding exchange. We continue to have good volume growth and a strong evolution index, but the business is affected by the macro economic issues facing our industry. Volume growth from brands such as JANUVIA and JANUMET, ISENTRESS, SIMPONI and VICTRELIS only partially offset price decreases, other austerity measures and the generic erosion of CLARINEX.

Moving onto several core brands, I will start with the JANUVIA and JANUMET franchise, which continued to perform very well this quarter with sales of $1.4 billion and 19% growth excluding exchange. The growth of JANUVIA is broad-based and we continue to see volume growth in every region of the world. JANUVIA and JANUMET combined grew 16% in the United States and 23%, excluding exchange, outside the United States, so there was nice growth in all regions.

Sequentially, sales outside the United States were slightly lower this quarter, primarily due to the timing of supply sales to a co-marketing partner in Japan. It is important to remember that we only report these supply sales to Ono in the second and fourth quarter. So there were no supply sales in the third quarter versus the $100 million that we reported in the second quarter.

Despite multiple competitors in the market, the JANUVIA family retained about a 73% share of the global DPP-4 market and it continues to have opportunities to grow. There continues to be opportunity to gain share from the generic sulfonylurea class, which still represents about 37% of patient days of therapy.

Moving to SINGULAIR, SINGULAIR sales declined by $700 million driven by the patent expiry in the United States. Within one month of the expiry, we saw a rapid 90% loss in prescription volume. We have also begun to see generic versions in other markets and we will lose market exclusivity in the major European markets in February of 2013.

ISENTRESS continues to be a strong core brand for Merck with 23% growth excluding exchange. Earlier this month, we celebrated a significant milestone with five years on the market. During that time, ISENTRESS has been a valuable treatment option to physicians and to patients in the fight against HIV. New competition is still early in its launch and we will provide updates in the future. ISENTRESS retains a preferred position in US treatment guidelines, which is a testament to the efficacy, to the tolerability and to the clinical longevity of ISENTRESS.

In our cholesterol franchise, ZETIA/VYTORIN global sales grew 3% excluding exchange. ZETIA grew 9% globally, which is partially offset by a decline in VYTORIN sales in the United States.

Moving to immunology, our combined immunology business with REMICADE and SIMPONI grew 4% in the quarter excluding the effect of exchange. We continue to be a leader in immunology with a strong marketshare for REMICADE. In addition, SIMPONI remains an important launch brand with $86 million of sales in the quarter. We recently launched SIMPONI in France and we have reintroduced its convenient autoinjector in Germany. We continue to be optimistic about SIMPONI's future growth potential competing with other subcu anti-TNFs.

Moving onto vaccines. Vaccines had another strong quarter of double-digit growth. GARDASIL maintained its strong performance with 31% growth over the prior year. The growth is due to continued update of the male indication in the United States and the timing of government purchases in Canada and Mexico this quarter.

Sales of ZOSTAVAX were $202 million, our highest quarter of sales since launch. We are seeing a very positive response to our promotional efforts and good uptake by patients presenting during the flu season. We anticipate there will be a cyclical nature to this business. We believe the flu season, which straddles the third and the fourth quarters, represents the largest opportunity. We continue to anticipate broader ex-US launches beginning next year.

Moving to launch brands, we continue to drive strong launches, including GARDASIL in Japan and VICTRELIS around the world. Our launch products contributed more than $200 million in revenue this quarter. Global sales of VICTRELIS reached $149 million in the quarter. In the United States, we continue to have strong share, ending the quarter with over a 40% TRX share.

Internationally, VICTRELIS has well over a 50% share of patient days of therapy across all markets where both protease inhibitors are available. There has been rapid uptake and we have a strong share in markets like France and Germany and Canada.

While our near-term focus is on driving the growth of VICTRELIS, we are also focusing on the future. In a couple of weeks, we will be presenting new Phase IIb data at AASLD for MK-5172, our potent protease inhibitor.

Now I would like to highlight how we are executing against our strategy of expanding geographically into key high-growth markets. Let's begin with the emerging markets. Emerging market sales reached $1.9 billion, up 7%, or 15% excluding exchange. Growth in emerging markets was broad-based across our portfolio.

In key emerging markets, our growth is outpacing overall market growth. Although there is pricing pressure in certain emerging markets, we are maximizing the growth of our core brands; we are launching new brands; and in the future, we will begin to realize the benefits of the joint ventures that we have been forming in several of these markets.

China continues to be an important growth driver with 18% growth excluding exchange. The growth was driven by hospital and specialty products, as well as contributions from our diversified brands and our core brands, which we expect to continue to grow in China.

Moving to Japan, growth in Japan was 1% this quarter. Strong growth of JANUVIA, ZETIA and our hospital products was tempered by a few factors -- first, a tough comparison last year due to wholesalers stocking for the GARDASIL launch; second, generic competition for COZAAR/HYZAAR and FOSAMAX; and third, the biennial price cuts earlier this year. Importantly, looking ahead, we believe we have opportunity for strong growth in Japan.

So in summary, Global Human Health continued to drive strong performance from its diverse portfolio. We were able to maintain the top line this quarter on a constant currency basis, overcoming the effects of the SINGULAIR patent expiry. We believe our business momentum positions us well to maintain the top line this year despite the loss of SINGULAIR exclusivity in the United States for five months and austerity measures around the world. Our base is strong; our base is diverse; and our base continues to grow. Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP & CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam and good morning. In the third quarter, we are continuing to execute against our strategy and we are on track to achieve the financial targets we laid out earlier this year. In the third quarter, we maintained our revenue on a constant currency basis despite facing the SINGULAIR impacts that Ken and Adam talked about. We also reduced our expenses resulting in bottom-line growth. In addition, we generated new clinical data and advanced key R&D programs. Our results demonstrate that we have built a strong foundation and momentum in our key brands and across our businesses.

This morning, I will briefly talk about our performance in the third quarter and I will discuss our outlook. This quarter, we faced a pretty steep climb. Revenue headwinds of $1.2 billion came from two major items. First, US SINGULAIR was a $700 million headwind and second, foreign exchange was a $550 million headwind. As Ken mentioned, this quarter, the entire $700 million impact of the SINGULAIR patent expiration was replaced by strong global sales across the rest of our business.

The Merck team delivered exactly what we said we would do at the beginning of the year -- deliver revenue near the 2011 level on a constant currency basis. We are proud of that accomplishment and also that we delivered EPS growth this quarter.

So let me start with the operating results. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials, which exclude acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. On this basis, we earned $0.95 this quarter, 1% higher than the prior year due to the unfavorable impacts of the US SINGULAIR patent expiration and foreign exchange.

Now let me turn to our expenses in the third quarter. Our non-GAAP gross margin declined sequentially by 200 basis points to 75.2% due primarily to the impact of SINGULAIR. In fact, during the third quarter, the US SINGULAIR impact was about 140 basis points unfavorable and keep in mind that this is only a two-month impact.

Regarding our year-over-year improvement in marketing and administrative expenses, almost half of the benefit was due to foreign exchange. The remainder was divided equally between reductions in direct selling expenses, promotion spending and other items. Meanwhile, research and development expenses were pretty much flat year-over-year.

Moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 20.3% in the third quarter. This is lower than the tax rate in the first six months and lower than our prior guidance. Two discrete items drove this lower rate. The first was the favorable impact of a settlement with a foreign tax authority and second, related to the realization of foreign tax benefits. Absent these discrete items, the non-GAAP tax rate would have been approximately 25%. These items are not expected to have an impact on the fourth quarter. We continue to expect our full-year non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 25%.

Now let me provide some additional commentary on our 2012 outlook. We have narrowed our EPS guidance and now expect our non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $3.78 to $3.82. This guidance reflects what we have consistently communicated about how 2012 would evolve, a strong operating performance in the first nine months and a fourth quarter that reflects the full impact of the US SINGULAIR patent expiration. Accordingly, we continue to expect the fourth quarter to be the lowest quarter of the year.

In addition, our performance in the fourth quarter will also be tempered by higher R&D spending, continued austerity measures and foreign exchange rates that remain below prior-year rates. Despite these pressures and consistent with our prior guidance, we expect that the underlying operating momentum of Merck's businesses will enable us to maintain our full-year 2012 revenues at or near 2011 levels on a constant currency basis.

On R&D expenses, our pipeline programs, which are continuing to progress nicely, and new business development deals have resulted in our year-to-date R&D expenses being about $100 million above the first nine months of 2011. In the fourth quarter, we also expect to incur approximately $150 million in upfront payments due to the recently signed deals, including the AiCuris deal. These upfront payments will be included in both GAAP and non-GAAP R&D expenses in the fourth quarter. As a result of the $100 million increase year-to-date and the pending upfront payments of $150 million, we expect our non-GAAP R&D expenses to be higher than the 2011 level on a full-year basis.

So to summarize our 2012 guidance, our operations are strong and our non-GAAP EPS guidance is now between $3.78 and $3.82. We also expect GAAP EPS to be between $2.08 and $2.24.

So let's look at what our third-quarter results can tell us about 2013. First off, we are seeing a significant change in our product mix away from SINGULAIR and towards newer growth drivers such as JANUVIA, JANUMET and our vaccines, among other products, as well as Animal Health and Consumer Health and the fast growth markets like the emerging markets in Japan. This is expected to continue in 2013.

What may be harder to appreciate is the impact of this mix shift on our gross margin. We are replacing a very high gross margin product with a basket of products that have a somewhat lower gross margin. As a result of this mix shift, our 2013 gross margin is expected to be lower than in 2012. We expect to provide our 2013 guidance on our fourth-quarter earnings call.

In summary, we delivered a very good quarter with strong core operating performance offsetting the impact of the US SINGULAIR patent expiration. We drove growth of key products and we increased sales in fast growth markets while maintaining strong financial discipline. In addition, we continue to bring in new R&D programs and advanced our internal R&D pipeline.

Given the performance of our underlying business this quarter, we are indeed facing our current challenges head-on and from a position of strength. We are confident that our strategy is working and we are right on track to deliver short-term performance and long-term growth. Thank you. I will turn the call back over to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter and now we would like to open up the call to take your questions. In order to help us get through as many callers as possible, we would ask that you please limit yourself to one or two questions and note that we will not take follow-up questions. However, if you do have additional questions, you are welcome to rejoin the queue. So Jackie, can you please start the Q&A please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: (technical difficulty) about this MK-3222; we haven't heard much about it. What is the key to the product and how it will compete with the others? And then SINGULAIR OUS seemed to be a little weak. How much of that was currency or is there something else going on? Obviously, we know what is going to happen next year.

ALEX KELLY: Great, thanks, Marc. Why don't we start with the SINGULAIR ex-US number and then we will come back to the IL-23.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So Marc, if you look at SINGULAIR outside the US, we have already started to see some patent expiries in countries like Mexico, Canada and Poland, so you really are starting to see some impact from the SINGULAIR patent expiries already.

In addition to that, we had a slightly slower AR season in Japan. In general, in markets such as the emerging markets in Japan where we don't have the patent expiries, we believe that we continue to see good growth and we expect to see good growth over time.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. And also, on MK-3222, we expect to begin Phase III trials in psoriasis either late this year or early next year. This is a drug that we have a great deal of excitement about. We think that this is a disease where there continues to be a great deal of unmet medical need going forward. We had a Phase II program that -- based on the study that we had there, we feel that there is value for moderate to severe chronic psoriasis patients and so we look forward to learning more about this drug as we move forward. And the anti-IL-23 psoriasis program, which is a monoclonal antibody, is one that we look forward to.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE: The first -- it seems like this earnings season, we have had kind of mixed data points on US primary care pricing as we kind of think out to 2013 from some of your competitors. Can you just talk about how you are thinking about managed care access and pricing for the JANUVIA franchise, as well as the ZETIA/VYTORIN franchises as we look out to kind of 2013? Are you seeing any incremental pressure there?

And then second, if I just think about where Merck is right now, we are getting through SINGULAIR; we have had some positive updates on your pipeline. It seems like you only have really one more major expiration with cholesterol out in 2016 or 2017. It seems like a time when Merck could start getting more aggressive with its capital deployment. I guess how are you thinking about use of cash at this point, particularly business development relative to things like further dividend increases? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, thanks, Chris. Let's start with your questions about pricing and managed care access and we'll come back to capital.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Chris. Thanks for your question. This is Adam. We continue to do well with our managed care access for JANUVIA and for that matter for ZETIA and VYTORIN. With JANUVIA, we have 85% to 90% unrestricted access. It is important to note that many patients use metformin even prior to JANUVIA or JANUMET, so therefore they are using a Tier 1 product before they move to our unrestricted access in Tier 2 or Tier 3. Of course, there continues to be pressure, but I think with the profile that we have with JANUVIA, with the utilization and where it is utilized, we expect to continue to have very good formulary acceptance as we move forward into 2013.

If you look at VYTORIN and ZETIA, we have 90% of patients that have commercial Medicare Part D access to at least one of the brands. And what we think is important is that they have the ability to use dual-inhibition through either adding ZETIA or utilizing VYTORIN. So 90% access we believe for either one of the two being in second tier or third tier with no prior [auth] is a good place to be. And if you look at 2012 and 2013, we don't anticipate any significant changes for VYTORIN or ZETIA.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Chris, thanks for your question on capital deployment. I think, first of all, we do have a very strong balance sheet and we have the ability to do deals when we see them. Our goal is to always look for the best external R&D opportunities that are out there, but we also want to access them at a price at which we can create value for our shareholders.

And from our standpoint, a deal like the one we just did with AiCuris for a late-stage antiviral candidate is the kind of thing that we want to continue to do. We will look for opportunities, but we want to temper the aggressiveness with being really smart in how we invest our cash for growth.

The other obligation we have obviously is to continue to return cash to our investors in a way that is actually appropriate to where we are. So I would say the first objective is to continue to do smart deals where they can add value to the long term and the second one is to return cash to shareholders.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much. Adam, a question around GARDASIL. This is, I believe, at least the second quarter you have pointed out boys as being somewhat of a driver. Can you actually discuss this a little bit further? What kind of percentage of revenue is actually coming from the male population versus females?

And then the second question is around emerging markets, which I think are flat sequentially at $1.9 billion. Is that an expectation that we should have at least through Q4? Is there a reason to assume that that can actually accelerate sequentially from this particular level based upon new products? Thanks very much.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Tony. Thanks very much for the questions. And let me give you some context on GARDASIL and then I will get specific to males. So we had 31% growth. If you look at the US sales, we had 25% year-over-year growth and a lot of that, we believe, is due to continued uptake by the male indication. Outside the US, we had about 46% growth and that was due to timing in some part of public sector sales in Canada, Mexico and Colombia. If you look at our share globally, we have got over an 80% share and in the US, we have greater than 95% share.

If you look at the males, we are seeing nice uptake by males and we have private sector data, so we don't have data for everything, but in the private sector data, it suggests that about 55% of our first doses are being administered to males. That is now therefore exceeding the number of first doses for females for the first time.

We think that there is still good opportunity to grow. If you look at the male indication, the rampup in sales has been slower than what we saw initially with the rampup for females. So we don't expect to see significant declines in that population.

If you look at the emerging markets, I look year-over-year. I think you have to be careful looking at sequential trends, particularly because of tenders and government purchases and so forth. So as I said before, there tends to be lumpiness as you go through the quarters in the emerging markets because of the way in which the governments and the tenders move forward. I think that we have the potential for good growth in emerging markets. We are very pleased having 15% growth [ex-Rx] versus the prior year and I think we have good momentum and we expect to keep that momentum.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I wanted to ask some questions about the IMPROVE IT press release that you had issued I think it was late March or early April. That release was written a little bit differently than the prior releases. I was just hoping, since it has been six months since the DSMB told you that they were adding another look, I was wondering, number one, is that look designed in conjunction with Merck and second, what additional details have you learned during the past six months that you can share with us? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Well, I would have to say, David, there is really nothing new to report. What we know is that there will be an additional review of nine months of adjudicated data and that has been scheduled for March 2013. We are confident in the study and we continue to look forward to a good outcome.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Question on biosimilars. From what I understand, REMICADE does not have patent protection in a reasonable number of smaller European markets. In these markets, can you talk about when you think biosimilars might arrive?

And then also a number of years ago, Merck made quite a splash about its presence in biosimilars and what that would be going forward, but the Company seems to have kind of gone quiet in this area for a while and I know that earlier this year, you lost your head of biosimilars. I am wondering if you can update us on your efforts there.

And then on Odanacatib, it is hard to know what to make of the product because obviously we only have top-line results. One of the things you described previously was some sort of potential safety issue. Can you please give us some idea of what this is?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So why don't I start with REMICADE, Tim. So first of all, I think it is unclear how Celltrion's biosimilar will impact REMICADE. We have REMICADE patent protected in the major EU countries where the vast majority of sales are until late 2014. We filed for pediatric market exclusivity in the EU based upon the new pediatric indications and we are hoping that that may bring exclusivity to 2015.

But when you think about biosimilars, we expect the impact in the first few years in any of these countries to be relatively slow for the following reasons. These will be the first monoclonal antibody biosimilars approved in the EU. In general, we don't believe that they are going to take patients off of their current therapy. We think that the product will be limited to new patients; (inaudible) patients are controlled and then you are going to need to have mechanisms for approval, for reimbursement, for physician familiarity because it is not going to be necessarily therapeutically substitutable.

So it is going to take a lot of support and promotion to be successful in the marketplace. So we continue to watch it and monitor it well, but at this point we feel confident that we will continue to be successful with REMICADE and SIMPONI.

KEN FRAZIER: And Tim, with respect to your general question about [MBV], I would say that we have a number of biosimilar molecules in early development. They include Rituxan and Enbrel, which we are prioritizing. We are also prioritizing other candidates across our portfolio of both the biosimilars, as well as the novel biologics like we talked about IL-23 a little while ago.

So what we are trying to do is continue to look at our investments, to select the molecules that have the highest potential relative to the development costs, the ones where we think we have the highest probability of technical success and of course, the molecules where we also think we have the highest probability of being one of the early first movers at the time of patent expiry.

Turning to Odanacatib, I can only say that there is nothing new to report at this time. We are waiting for the trial to close out and we will have more data for that to present in 2013.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: (technical difficulty) my questions. I appreciate it. Maybe I can ask a question -- just I think you have an analyst meeting that you are planning on holding in the 1Q. I was wondering maybe if you could help us understand expectations for that meeting. I think most importantly on investors' mind is are there plans in the company to perhaps reinstitute longer-term financial targets?

And then just to build on ZOSTAVAX, the ZOSTAVAX number was, I thought, pretty impressive and the fact that you are launching ex-US seems to communicate that you think your supply issues are behind you. Can you speak to the state of the supply issues and also maybe give us an update on where penetration is in that market overall so we can get an idea of where this could go with time? Thanks a lot.

KEN FRAZIER: So let me start with the long-term guidance question and just say that, at this time, there is no intention to reinstate long-term guidance.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And let me, Mark, give you some context on ZOSTAVAX and ex-US. Right now, the majority of sales are in the United States. We are pleased with the launch in the United States and Canada, but Canada only represents about $10 million of the ZOSTAVAX sales for the quarter. But we want to make sure we continue to invest in markets outside the US. Our top priority is to ensure uninterrupted supply where we launch and we continue to build inventory to support the anticipated demand. So when we launch into a country, we want to make sure that we will have enough supply to continue to be able to supply that country. We are planning additional launches in certain ex-US markets beginning in 2013 and we will let you know about those as we get closer.

In terms of [derm], we are in the final stage of review and approval process and we continue to expect approval in early 2013. But for the US market and Canada right now, we are comfortable that we have the supply for those markets and we will keep you informed as we move forward outside the US.

ALEX KELLY: And Mark, it's Alex. In terms of the analyst meeting, we have not settled on a date yet, but we are looking at Q2 as probably a target timeline for the next analyst meeting and as in the past, I would expect that R&D programs would figure very prominently in the discussions that we would have there, as well as a review of the overall business. So with that, we will take the next question please.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: (technical difficulty) expect the top-line results for HPS2 THRIVE? And then secondly, Peter, you gave us a little bit of color around what to expect for gross margins in 2013. I was wondering if you could provide us a little bit of color around the pushes and the pulls to revenues in 2013. Specifically do you expect that 2013 could be flat like 2012 versus 2011? Just remind us please what the, aside from SINGULAIR going generic February 2013, if there is anything else that we should be aware of and offsetting that, what are the product introductions? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Ken, why don't you start with TREDAPTIVE?

KEN FRAZIER: So Jami, thanks for the questions. We expect the trial to complete this year and we expect to present the data sometime in 2013.

PETER KELLOGG: So Jami, thanks for the question on the top line and the PGM. So the PGM I did discuss. On the top line, I think the factors to consider as headwinds perhaps is that, in addition to SINGULAIR having just gone off patent in the US in August, in the first quarter of 2013, it will go off in a number of the major markets in Europe.

Additionally, MAXALT will go off patent I think at the end of this year and so that is just another consideration. Not obviously at all as meaningful as SINGULAIR, but just another point to note.

The flip though, the question that you had, which is where will the revenue come from that will offset that or how close will we come, obviously we will be giving guidance for 2013 on the first-quarter call but we aren't really in a position to provide that today. But clearly you can see in the third-quarter results the kind of drivers we have around the world and across a broad range of products quite frankly.

I think that is pretty clear and you have asked some questions already today relative to the performance of GARDASIL, of ZOSTAVAX and so forth and we are continuing to focus on those products. I think Adam is obviously -- Adam and his team are obviously going to be getting ready to launch a lot of the products we talked about coming through filing and the pipeline as we go through '13 as well. So that will be -- may not be as much of a revenue driver, but it is something they are getting us ready for.

So while we are managing '13 really well to make sure we drive the short-term performance, as Ken likes to say, we're also going to be making sure that we are teeing up the business really well so that as we come through '13, we are going to be able to take great advantage of the launches coming out of the pipeline.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN & CO.: (technical difficulty) and I know 2013 guidance comes in 2013, but, Ken, everything you have said about 2013 suggests top and bottom-line growth and I am just wondering if that is the message that we should take home? And secondly, assuming the Phase II is positive, what is the earliest you could move your base inhibitor into Phase III and how soon after that can we see data? This looks like a phenomenal drug and I am just wondering when we could look forward to its late-phase development. Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks for the questions, Steve. What I have said thus far really relates to what we anticipated doing in 2012 and we have done what we have said, essentially that we wanted to maintain the top line at or above -- at or about the 2011 levels. We have done that in 2012. We have not given any guidance yet for 2013 for revenue or anything else. We will do that on our fourth-quarter call.

We are also excited about BACE. Alzheimer's disease, first of all, is a priority area for Merck and it is something important for us. We are planning to begin Phase II trials later this year and we will be able to provide more details at that time about what the trial will involve and I just have to say stay tuned. But we share your excitement about this particular compound and the opportunity that we have in terms of Alzheimer's disease.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I had two questions. First of all, I wondered if you could comment on anacetrapib's Phase II extension study. It must be wrapping up soon and I wondered if you can confirm that and talk about if you will disclose those results and how we might see them? And then secondly I wanted to ask about the Animal Health business and I thought the performance was a little bit light beyond FX and I wondered if you could talk about some of the dynamics in the bigger sub-segments of that business.

KEN FRAZIER: On Animal Health, as we said before, our third-quarter sales were 7% ex-exchange. Year-to-date, we are up about 10% ex-exchange. So we thought we saw, if you put aside currency, pretty strong quarterly performance of our cattle, our poultry, our companion animal and our fish businesses. So we are pretty excited about that.

With respect to your questions about the defined extension study, we are moving forward with our program. We don't anticipate filing on the basis of that data. The filing will be based on the data from the REVEAL study, which is ongoing, which you'll remember is a 30,000 patient study. And the good news for us is we are more than two-thirds enrolled on the REVEAL study. So we continue to move forward with that program and we remain very committed to that development program for both anacetrapib, as well as TREDAPTIVE.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Merrill Lynch.

ALEX KELLY: Hey, Gregg, are you there?

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: Can you hear me, Alex?

ALEX KELLY: Yes, we can hear you now, Gregg.

GREGG GILBERT: Sorry, guys. Has your timeline for HPS-THRIVE slipped at all and is it fair to say, Ken, that the outcome could have implications for your BD strategy and priorities?

My second question is for Adam. What does your market research tell you about a once-weekly JANUVIA? Obviously, once-weekly played well on osteoporosis. I am curious how you see it playing out in the category where patients may be on several therapies that can't be put into a once-weekly format. Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So Gregg, let me start with the once-weekly first. And as you think about the profile of the DPP-4s and in particular drugs like JANUVIA, you can see that, with the efficacy profile, the safety profile and the uptake of those products, that there is a lot of need for new diabetes products in the marketplace.

As we start to think about where the current drugs are positioned, in general, they are positioned after metformin in patients that are already being treated. In addition to that, still 37% of patients are taking sulfonylureas. As we think about the once weekly DPP-4s, a question that I think will come to fruition is will physicians utilize a once-weekly product prior to metformin. This is the reason -- if you have a younger, active, more healthy patient with diabetes, wouldn't you want to use a once-weekly product in that patient and therefore, I think it could represent an additional opportunity above and beyond where JANUVIA is positioned today. And our market research is starting to demonstrate that there is a high likelihood that physicians will consider a once-weekly product for earlier treatment than where the current DPP-4s are utilized.

KEN FRAZIER: On TREDAPTIVE, I would say there hasn't been any slippage as it relates to the timing of the trial. We are waiting for the trial to conclude. We expect it to conclude by the end of 2012. We expect to be able to present the data sometime in 2013. Our normal preference is to wait for presentation at clinical conferences. And as it relates to business development, I wouldn't say that that would be a driver for our business development activity. We try to be proactive in business development across the therapeutic areas where we want to be focused and so we will continue to do that.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you for taking my questions. Can you hear me?

ALEX KELLY: Yes, we can, Alex.

ALEX ARFAEI: Great. Well, I will be the first to congratulate you on the quarter. I think it's pretty impressive considering the headwinds you are facing. REMICADE seemed to be a little lighter than we expected. I was wondering if you could provide some comments on that.

And then finally with regards to your Alzheimer's drug, are you planning to evaluate that earlier, in earlier stage patients such as prodromal patients considering what we've seen from some of the agents that are a little bit ahead of you? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Adam, do you want to start?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, hi, Alex. So with regard to REMICADE, we had, and you look at REMICADE and SIMPONI together, we had about 4% growth versus prior year. REMICADE sales were about $500 million in the third quarter and it was a decline ex-FX of just over 10%. When you think about the austerity measures and the fact that we are competing primarily in major European markets, they are looking at the anti-TNF class as a way to reduce costs. So we continue to have a very good share of REMICADE, but there has been some real pricing pressure that we have faced in Europe on that product.

SIMPONI represents a growth opportunity where, with SIMPONI, we have over $89 million of sales for the quarter. We are launching in France, which is a large market for this class. We are competing with the other anti-TNFs in the subcutaneous marketplace. And therefore, I think that we will be able to show growth as we move forward utilizing SIMPONI with France, but also the reintroduction of the autoinjector in Germany for that product.

KEN FRAZIER: And with respect to our BACE program, as I said before, we are planning to begin Phase II trials later this year and we will be able to provide more details at the time the trial begins. But I will reiterate again we are excited about this program. Alzheimer's disease is a priority area for the Company and the amyloid hypothesis remains a leading approach for disease modification for Alzheimer's disease. MK-8931 appears can reduce cerebral spinal fluid, Abeta peptides by greater than 90% in healthy volunteers without dose-limiting side effects. And so we will continue to study this drug as we move forward and we have a tremendous opportunity to design clinical programs that allow us to export it across a variety of patients.

ALEX KELLY: So, operator, I think we have time for two more questions, please. So the last two callers.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thank you. Can you hear me now?

KEN FRAZIER: Yes.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ: Okay, great. So as you developed Odanacatib, can you just give us a sense of what the key attributes were that you found would best correlate to long-term success given the availability of generic bisphosphonates and other injectable products? And then second, we now have a pretty good sense of the tolerability of CORDAPTIVE. We are seeing some tolerability issues there and some dropout, which obviously is the case for niacin. If CORDAPTIVE were to show that its benefits or effects were largely key to LDL reduction only, how would the -- how would you see this franchise evolving going forward given the availability of ZETIA and its effects on LDL? Thanks a lot.

ALEX KELLY: So, Ken, do you want to start with Odanacatib?

KEN FRAZIER: Yes. So first of all, we think there is a tremendous opportunity for another once-weekly oral regimen that has no special requirements in terms of how people take it or use it. There is a tremendous market need. There are 200 million women worldwide and only 20% of them are treated. Remember, it was a $10 billion market prior to generic FOSAMAX and we see bisphosphonate use declining. And on top of that, approximately 25% of people can't tolerate bisphosphonates anyway. So now you have a unique mechanism. It also shows positive data trends beyond FOSAMAX and we are looking forward to the publication of our fracture outcome trial because we think this is a product that could have tremendous usefulness in the marketplace.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So with regard to TREDAPTIVE, there is still a substantial residual CV risk in the marketplace of about 65% and this remains a very large market. One share point in the US is still about $400 million. And if you just look at niacin alone, it is about $1 billion despite the tolerability profile of niacin.

We have data that demonstrates less flushing with TREDAPTIVE than with niacin and we have got some good data looking at the flushing and the incidence of flushing. If you look at the HPS2 THRIVE trial, it is well-powered to detect a 15% improvement in the time to first cardiovascular event. We believe that a 20% reduction in LDL cholesterol and other lipid benefits such as an 18% increase in HDL cholesterol, which is what we have seen in prior trials, will support the science behind TREDAPTIVE and we believe that if you get a positive outcomes trial, which is what we expect for HPS2 THRIVE then we could have a real place in the market to help reduce the residual risk that currently exists of 65%.

KEN FRAZIER: And niacin is a pretty strong market of about $1 billion despite all the tolerability issues.

ALEX KELLY: Operator, we are ready for our last question, please.

OPERATOR: Michael Tong, Wells Fargo Securities.

MICHAEL TONG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Two of them. One, in terms of hepatitis C, clearly, the market and the science is moving pretty quickly to perhaps all oral and one pill regimen. So where does Merck stand in the long term in that market and how do you expect to get there? And then secondly, with respect to R&D expenses, as you look out several years, do you reach a point where you get to a certain critical mass and your R&D in absolute dollar terms stay relatively constant because adding more doesn't necessarily give you more productivity? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: I will take the HCV question, Michael. So in the short term, obviously, we are looking to maximize the VICTRELIS opportunity. We are also aggressively pursuing new, more convenient interferon-free therapies and we are focusing on MK-5172, either in combination with internal candidates like 8742, which is our NS5a in Phase I. There will be more data presented at AASLD on our NS5as or in partnership with others and our goal is to develop an all-oral regimen that maximizes SVR, that shortens duration of treatment and minimizes the side effects.

If you look at clintrials.gov, you can see that there is a study that is planned to evaluate 12 and 24-week regimens of MK-5172 in combination with ribavirin and that is in treatment-naive patients with genotype 1 infection and also in IL-28 CC genotype. And we think that MK-5172 could have an unprecedented profile and be the partner protease inhibitor of choice for all oral combination regimens and that is what we hope. You will see that there is new Phase IIb data for MK-5172 with [peg/riban] at AASLD in just a few weeks as well.

PETER KELLOGG: So on the question of R&D, first of all, I will just start by saying we really haven't given long-term R&D guidance. I just want to make sure that is clear. But in terms of the question of how we think about it, I am not sure that we really feel that there is an issue of critical mass. I don't think there is a scale or size that fits one company or another. Much more importantly though, looking at the individual programs and really understanding the economics of those programs and driving a stiff prioritization process that ensures a very, very good return on investment and creation of value in that pipeline. And I think you have heard Peter Kim and his team partnered with Adam's team has been very rigorous in the last several years actually in really going through that and we continue to do that on a regular basis. And it has, I believe, now yielded a pipeline that is creating tremendous value and has a lot of potential for the Company. So we are actually very excited to see how that will progress and continue to unfold.

I think in terms of picking a size for the future of R&D, I think it really does come down to what are the opportunities we see and what are the opportunities we have both in terms of innovative pipeline and supporting markets around the world. We have made a lot of effort in our R&D structure to make it a bit more virtual and partnered as we work with collaborators, which, on the one hand, in a sense, variablizes our costs so that the activity level goes down. We actually do see savings. But conversely, it really does actually open up more capacity.

So if we see the right programs to really execute well that creates a great return on investment, we should really be going after them. Now that doesn't automatically mean we plan to grow or not grow. It just really means what's the portfolio as it goes through a strong prioritization effort what do we choose to pursue. So I think it is more really what are the opportunities and we are now positioned and I think well set up to pursue them properly.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, so let me say a few things in closing. First of all, I want to say that I believe we turned in a very strong operational performance in the third quarter. But more importantly, looking forward, our strategy is right on track. We said that we will continue advancing our pipeline and that is exactly what we are doing on a number of important fronts. We said we would maintain sales at or near the 2011 levels and we are able to do that.

The important thing is that our underlying portfolio, including products like JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, GARDASIL, ZOSTAVAX and SIMPONI, is continuing to grow very strongly. We continue to grow strongly in the emerging markets, perhaps strongest growth across the entire industry in the emerging markets. We continue to reduce costs in targeted ways so that we can continue to invest in our future growth, including the pipeline.

So in the long run, what I think we are doing is we are setting ourselves up to create shareholder value in the long term and we are very excited by the period of time into, a period of time where we will be bringing new products to the market. So thank you very much and I look forward to speaking to you soon.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc. | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gdeme : Dementia | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | gment : Mental Health | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121109e8aq00335
  


 HD
 Q2  2012  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,543 words
   PD
27 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's second-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, SVP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Jackie, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Merck's second-quarter 2012 earnings call.

Before I turn the call over to Ken, I want to mention just a few housekeeping items. First, there are a number of items in the GAAP results this quarter, such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs, and certain other items and you should note that we have excluded those items in our non-GAAP results. You can see our reconciliation tables in the press release and also in table 2 of the charts. That will give you a better sense of the underlying performance.

We have also provided tables to help you understand the revenue trends and we have some additional tables as well. So during the call, we're going to refer primarily to the non-GAAP results which you will find in table 2.

And finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make today might be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements are based upon management's current beliefs and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. You can see our SEC filings in our -- which identifies certain risk factors and other cautionary statements that you should know about when considering those forward-looking statements. You can find our SEC filings on at our website at Merck.com.

Now I would like to turn the call over to our speakers. First, we have Ken Frazier, and our Chairman and CEO; we also have Adam Schechter, our President of our Global Human Health business; and then Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now, I would like to turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining the call today. Last year we laid out our plans for success in 2012 and beyond. We told you that we continue having high expectations for ourselves and that we intend to deliver strong operational performance and advance our pipeline. We are delivering both.

Our results this quarter demonstrate the momentum we continue building in our underlying business. As I've said for some time, we are focusing on delivering growth through innovation and execution. We are pleased with the growth we saw this quarter and our longer-term focus on innovation remains intact.

This quarter, we delivered our sixth straight quarter of topline growth and even faster non-GAAP bottom-line growth. We did so in the face of significant pressures from the difficult global economic environment including an increase in government austerity measures and currency headwinds.

Although we anticipate many of these external challenges to continue, the greatest longer-term threat to the global healthcare system remains the rapidly increasing and unsustainable growth in costs. This is why we are committed to our strategy of bringing forward innovative medicine and vaccines that have demonstrated outcomes, provide value to public and private payers, and make a real difference in the end to patients.

Despite the external challenges to our industry, and the imminent SINGULAIR US patent expiration, we remain focused on building long-term shareholder value by executing the four-part strategy we shared with you at our business briefing last November.

First, executing on our core business which includes our largest markets, our core brands, our new launch brands, and innovative R&D. Second, expanding geographically to leverage high growth markets such as Japan, and key emerging markets. Third, extending into the complementary businesses of Consumer Care and Animal Health. And fourth, excelling at managing our cost structure while continuing to invest for future growth, which is critical in this industry.

Our second-quarter results plus a broader view of our robust pipeline, demonstrate that we are executing our strategy well. So let me start with how we executed on the core.

Overall, we grew worldwide sales by 1% which includes a 4% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. On a constant currency basis, therefore, sales increased 5%. Once again, we saw double-digit growth from a number of key products. We remain confident in our ability to weather the loss of exclusivity for SINGULAIR and in 2012, we intend to maintain our revenues at or near 2011 levels on a constant currency basis.

The second part of our strategy is to expand geographically in high growth markets like Japan and key emerging markets. Since the merger, we have been making investments accordingly, and as you will hear from Adam, those investments are paying off.

In addition to our organic growth initiatives and capabilities, we have also started new joint ventures in places like China, Brazil, and India to expand our capabilities while making further inroads into these important markets.

Moving to the third part of our strategy, extending into complementary businesses, Merck Animal Health grew 14% this quarter excluding exchange. The double-digit growth in the quarter was primarily driven by sales in the United States and Asia Pacific across the cattle, swine and companion animal segment. We see connectivity and R&D and manufacturing between our Animal Health and our human health businesses and we remain optimistic about the global trends and growth prospects for our Animal Health business.

Merck Consumer Care continues to show topline growth in 2012 and is experiencing growing in-market demand in many key countries. Sales this quarter grew 3%, excluding exchange. We remain confident about the future prospects for this business which meets the needs of consumers and complements our pharmaceutical core in terms of its lifecycle management.

The last element of our growth strategy is to excel at managing our costs while also investing for future growth. This quarter, we drove top line growth across our business while also tightly managing costs and reducing operating expenses overall by about $200 million resulting in an 11% increase in non-GAAP EPS.

We are committed to driving continuous productivity improvements across the enterprise to help us invest for growth on an ongoing basis.

Finally, I would like to focus the remainder of my remarks on our foundation, [that's] innovation and the progress that Merck is making on that important front. Last year, we reiterated our commitment to R&D, translating cutting edge science in a medically important product is at the heart of what we believe Merck does best.

We are pleased to see significant progress in the pipeline. We remain on track with six major filings over the next 18 months. Among them is odanacatib, our investigational Cat-K inhibitor for osteoporosis. Odanacatib represents a potential whole new way to treat osteoporosis, and the unmet medical need in this field remains very high. Currently, as you may know, there are about 200 million women worldwide who have osteoporosis but only approximately 20% of these women are treated.

As we reported earlier this month, the data monitoring committee for the fracture risk reduction study completed its first planned interim analysis and recommended that the study be closed early due to robust efficacy and a favorable benefit/risk profile. We still need to close out the trial and follow-up on the safety issues that remain in certain selected areas as noted by the DMC.

We anticipate submitting regulatory applications for approval of odanacatib in the US and the EU during the first half of next year and in Japan in the third quarter of 2013.

In addition to odanacatib, we are also on track to file suvorexant, a new first in class treatment for patients with insomnia. Suvorexant approaches insomnia differently than other medicines because it helps patients to sleep by targeting and blocking orexins, which play a role in keeping people awake. As you know, many patients have a need for chronic treatment. Suvorexant has demonstrated efficacy through 12 months, which is one of the longest continuously dosed placebo controlled trials of a sleep medication ever conducted.

Beyond odanacatib and suvorexant, we are on track to file BRIDION, a first in class neuromuscular reversal agent. V503, a vaccine that expands protection against certain HPV associated cancers. TREDAPTIVE, our novel cholesterol medicine that improves multiple lipid parameters. And vintafolide, a first in class innovation that could have utility in a variety of tumor types including ovarian and lung cancers. As a reminder, each of these compounds we intend to file is consistent with our focus on R&D innovation, meaning clinically differentiated drugs that are either first in class or best in class.

We believe all six of our planned major submissions include data that will create significant market opportunities at the time of launch and afterwards.

We also anticipate several meaningful R&D events in the second half of this year, including responding to the FDA with additional data for Atozet, our combination tablet containing ezetimibe and atorvastatin. Beginning Phase III trials for MK-3102, our once weekly DPP-4 inhibitor and starting Phase II trials for our novel base inhibitor which recently had early data presented at the Alzheimer's Association International Conference.

In conjunction with the growing momentum of our internal R&D efforts, we remain committed to identifying and accessing external innovation. Our goal is to seek out those assets at all phases of development that help position us for success in key therapeutic areas and which can be attained on terms that create shareholder value.

Our recent partnership with Endocyte for a late stage oncology drug is an example of our strategy as are the HIV partnerships with Chimerix and Yamasa for early-stage compounds announced earlier this week.

In closing, let me emphasize again that we remain confident in our core strategy and the progress we are making in transforming Merck's business. As we are facing a major patent expiration, we are confident that we are building a foundation for growth for our underlying portfolio of products.

As importantly, we are pleased to be advancing and delivering on the pipeline. Overall, our focus on strong operational performance and investing for the future will allow us to deliver shareholder value over the longer term.

I would like to now turn the call over to Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP AND PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken. Good morning, everyone. It's a pleasure to speak with you today and to provide you with an overview of Global Human Health results. Global Human Health continued to deliver topline year-over-year growth in the second quarter. Pharmaceutical and vaccine sales grew 2%. Sales grew 8% excluding the transfer of REMICADE and SIMPONI in certain territories and 2011 and the impact of foreign exchange.

The benefits of our diverse and our innovative portfolio of products and our focus on growth and execution are evident in the results again this quarter. I will highlight several aspects of our performance according to our strategy. I'm going to begin with the execution on our core business which includes our largest markets, our core brands and our launch brands.

In the United States, sales grew significantly this quarter. They grew significantly whether you include or exclude SINGULAIR. Driving this performance are innovative products with double-digit growth and long exclusivity like JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, GARDASIL, ZOSTAVAX and VICTRELIS.

Moving to Europe and Canada, sales declined 14% in the second quarter. If you exclude the transfer of REMICADE and SIMPONI in Canada and the impact of foreign exchange, sales declined 3%. Strong contributions from JANUVIA and JANUMET and the launch of VICTRELIS were offset by continued austerity measures and a loss of CLARINEX exclusivity.

Many of our key brands are growing in volume in the EU. However, we continue to anticipate an unfavorable maid single-digit impact from pricing measures in 2012. But it is trending to the higher end of that range.

Moving onto several core brands. I will start with the JANUVIA family of products which became our largest selling products for the first time this quarter. JANUVIA and JANUMET continued to have strong performance growing 33% to $1.5 billion. This quarter's results include about $100 million of supply sales to a comarketing partner in Japan. As you may recall, these supply sales are reported every other order.

Despite multiple competitors in the market, the JANUVIA family retained about a 75% share of the global DPP-4 market and continues to have opportunities to grow. There continues to be opportunity to gain share from the generic sulfonylureas class which still represents about 37% of the patient days of therapy. We believe that JANUVIA's efficacy, tolerability, and broad product offering will enable continued strong growth of this important brand.

Worldwide sales of SINGULAIR grew 6%. When SINGULAIR loses exclusivity in the United States next week, we expect multiple generic entrants on day one. This means that erosion will be rapid and it will be significant. In addition, SINGULAIR will lose exclusivity in major European markets in February of 2013.

ISENTRESS continues to be a strong core brand for Merck with 18% growth. This week we presented the year five data from the STARTMRK study. This efficacy and tolerability profile underscores why ISENTRESS has been a valuable treatment option in the fight against HIV. We are confident that ISENTRESS will continue to be a strong choice for patients going forward.

In our cholesterol franchise, ZETIA and VYTORIN global sales grew 2% to $1.1 billion. ZETIA continued to grow in the United States and VYTORIN contributed to growth outside of the United States.

Combined REMICADE and SIMPONI sales grew 6% excluding foreign exchange in the retained territories of Europe, Turkey and Russia this quarter. SIMPONI remains an important launch brand with $76 million of sales versus $59 million for the same quarter last year and a Merck territories. We are looking to expand SIMPONI's product offering with an additional indication in ulcerative colitis which is a fast growing anti-TNF category. The file was recently submitted to the European Medicines Agency for their review.

Moving onto vaccines. Vaccines had another strong quarter of double-digit growth. GARDASIL maintained a strong performance with 17% growth over the prior year. This is due to continued uptake of the mail indication in the United States and the launch in Japan.

Sales of ZOSTAVAX were $148 million, the highest quarter since 2008. Given a stable supply situation, we have been increasing our promotional efforts this year. First, with the disease awareness campaign in the spring and more recently with a branded campaign that began just last month.

Moving to launch brands. We continue to launch multiple products including GARDASIL in Japan and VICTRELIS around the world and our launch products contributed more than $200 million in revenue this quarter. Global sales of VICTRELIS reached $126 million. In the US, share continued to grow and VICTRELIS ended the quarter with over a 40% TRx share.

While we are pleased with the continued share gains, we have seen a contraction in the market for new patient starts. However, there are still a considerable number of appropriate patients that need treatment and we are now working on market development activities. In addition, US new patient starts should increase somewhat after the historically low summer months.

Internationally, VICTRELIS is launching in 23 markets around the world. VICTRELIS has a greater than 50% patient share in many of these markets including France, Germany, Canada, Norway and Denmark. This rapid uptake and strong patient share performance signals a value of triple therapy with VICTRELIS and what it represents to patients, to physicians and to payers.

Now I would like to highlight how we're executing against our strategy of expanding geographically into key high-growth markets and let's begin with Japan.

Growth in Japan was 9% or approximately 7%, excluding exchange. Sales this quarter continued to reflect strong growth of JANUVIA and launch brands such as GARDASIL and BRIDION, tempered somewhat by the biennial price cuts last quarter and a tough comparison to a very strong allergy season last year. Looking ahead, we believe we have continued opportunity for robust growth in Japan.

Moving to emerging markets, sales reached $1.9 billion, up 1%. However, the emerging markets grew 16% if you exclude REMICADE sales and foreign exchange. Growth in emerging markets was driven by China, Russia, Brazil, Mexico and the Middle East. In the key emerging markets, our growth is outpacing overall market growth.

Although there is pricing pressure in certain emerging markets, we are maximizing the growth of our core brands, we are launching new brands, and in the future, we will begin to realize the benefits of joint ventures that we've been forming in several of these key markets.

China continues to be an important growth driver with 27% growth or 23% excluding exchange. The growth was driven by hospital and specialty business lines as well as contributions from our diversified brands and our core brands. We expect we will continue to grow in China and other emerging markets.

In summary, Global Human Health continued its consistent, strong operational performance. We believe our business momentum positions us well to maintain the topline this year even considering the SINGULAIR US Patent expiry next week and austerity measures around the world.

So if there is one thing -- if there is one thing I would like you to remember, it is that our base is strong, our base is diverse and our base continues to grow. I believe we can deliver strong results in 2012 by executing on our strategy, our strategy of optimizing our core businesses, which includes our largest markets, our core brands and our launch brands and by continuing to expand into high-growth emerging markets in Japan.

Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP AND CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam, and good morning. As you heard from Ken and Adam, we are continuing to execute against our stated plans to grow and perform. We are on track to achieve the financial targets we laid out earlier this year.

In the second quarter, we drove revenue growth and reduced our expenses resulting in even faster bottom-line growth. We also generated new clinical data to support our late stage R&D programs. These results demonstrate that Merck is operating well and is building a strong foundation and momentum in our key brands and across our businesses.

This morning, I'll briefly talk about our performance in the second quarter and I will discuss our outlook including the implications of foreign exchange and austerity. Let me start with the operating results. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials which exclude acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items.

On this basis, we earned $1.05 this quarter, 11% higher than the prior year. As Ken and Adam mentioned, we drove revenue growth in each of our three major business units. However, our total revenues grew only 1% due to a 4% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange and a 1% unfavorable impact from Alliance revenue and third-party manufacturing sales. We do expect supply sales to Astra to continue to decline going forward.

Now let me turn to our expenses in the second quarter. Our financial discipline has resulted in total operating expenses being reduced by nearly $200 million in the second quarter. Product costs were about $30 million lower year-over-year. Marketing and administrative expenses were down about $260 million, and research and development expenses were up about $100 million due primarily to the $120 million upfront payment to Endocyte.

On the R&D expenses, I would note that the continuing momentum in new pipeline projects and business development deals have led our R&D expense to be about $100 million above the first half of 2011. As a result, we now expect our 2012 non-GAAP R&D expenses to be slightly higher than the 2011 level on a four-year basis.

Our non-GAAP gross margin of 77.2% was better on a year-over-year basis, primarily due to product mix and productivity improvements. However, with the SINGULAIR US patent expiration in August, we anticipate that our gross margin will be lower going forward as SINGULAIR is a very high-margin product.

The improvement in marketing and administrative expense was due to actions that improved our operating efficiency across the Company which account for about two-thirds of the marketing and admin expense improvement. The balance was due to foreign exchange.

Moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 25.8% in the second quarter. This is higher than the first-quarter tax rate. The Endocyte payment unfavorably affected the rate and foreign exchange also unfavorably affected the tax rate due to the magnitude of change during this quarter. Based on the first half non-GAAP tax rate of 25.3%, we have revised our tax guidance for 2012 and now expect our full-year non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 25%.

Now let me provide some additional commentary on our 2012 outlook. At the outset, we are reconfirming our non-GAAP EPS in the range of $3.75 to $3.85. That guidance incorporates the strong operating performance in the first half and the amendment of the AstraZeneca partnership and it is tempered by the slightly higher R&D spending, a higher tax rate, austerity measures and foreign exchange.

As Adam mentioned, the environment of austerity remains challenging from a price perspective. While our volume in Europe is growing, we continue to expect pricing pressure in the mid single-digit range of our European business in 2012. Although it may now be in the higher end of that range.

Despite these pressures and consistent with our prior guidance, we expect the underlying operational momentum of Merck's business will enable us to maintain our full-year 2012 revenues at or near 2011 levels on a constant currency basis. But it is now clear that currency and especially the euro has deteriorated significantly since we last spoke and that deterioration in foreign exchange rates is putting downward pressure on our results in the second half.

At current exchange rates, the ForEx pressure that I mentioned are expected to adversely affect full-year sales by more than 3%. For example, at today's exchange rates, sales in the third quarter would be adversely affected by about 6%. Much of that topline pressure will flow through to the bottom line so you should adjust your assumptions accordingly.

We continue to believe that the fourth quarter will be the lowest quarter of the year primarily due to the US SINGULAIR patent expiration.

So to summarize our guidance, our operations are strong. We are maintaining our non-GAAP EPS guidance between $3.75 and $3.85. But the euro movements during the remainder of the year will influence where we finish the year within that EPS range. We also continue to expect GAAP EPS to be between $2.04 and $2.30.

As Ken and Adam mentioned, we are consistently delivering on our strategy that is focused on growth and execution. And also we are right on track with the roadmap that we laid out at the time of our merger. At that time we talked about a progressed timeline that had three phases.

We completed the bulk of the launch phase in 2010 in the early part of 2011. Now, in the accelerate phase, we are focused on driving topline growth and leveraging the income statement to achieve even faster bottom-line growth.

Six quarters of topline growth and roughly double digit non-GAAP EPS growth are indicative of our execution during this accelerate phase. We have succeeded in creating momentum to absorb macro, external pressures and the SINGULAIR patent expiration.

The next phase, which we call the breakthrough phase, happens when key products begin emerging from the R&D pipeline. Two of these programs, odanacatib and suvorexant, took significant steps forward this quarter. As we bring these and other drugs to market, we will invest to drive their long-term success and help them reach as many patients as appropriate so that the Merck of tomorrow is even stronger than the Merck of today. Thank you.

Now I will turn the call back over to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Thanks, Peter. Now we would like to open up the call to answer your questions. But in order for us to get through as many questions as possible, please limit yourself to just one or two questions and note that we won't take any follow-up questions. You are welcome to join the queue, though, if you do have additional questions.

So, Jackie, we are now ready to take the Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks very much and good morning. I had two questions. One, I wondered if you could just comment on ZOSTAVAX? I mean a very impressive performance and I know last quarter you had said that it's going to take another three or six months to better understand the demand here and you've been doing DTC. Does the second quarter tell us more about what we should be thanking on annualized rates and how we should start seeing maybe more normalized sequential quarterly progression or is it going to remain choppy?

And then a more big picture question, Ken, I guess I am just wondering if the Board or the executive team has evolved or changed over the last few quarters in the way it is thinking about evaluating or considering what is core for Merck strategically and what might be candidates for divestment or spin? And if the answer is yes, if you could just give us a little bit of color there. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: So, thanks for the questions, Catherine. I think our approach to our overall business portfolio remains essentially the same which is we need to evaluate as we go forward what the opportunities are across Animal Health and Consumer Health in conjunction with Global Human Health. Right now, we are pleased to have them in the portfolio. We think they are performing well. We will continue to evaluate how we can ensure that those portions of the portfolio actually help us contribute to our plans to have long-term shareholder value. So that was what I would say. We will continue to look at that, but we are pleased to have those in our portfolio right now.

The other thing is that we continue, as we look at our portfolio, to look for ways to augment our businesses through the kind of business development that will create long-term shareholder value, so that wasn't directly your question but I want to make sure that that is also clear.

On the ZOSTAVAX thing, I have to say we are very pleased that we can now say we are in a stable supply situation now in the United States and we are continuing to work hard to make the kinds of manufacturing improvements and enhancements that are necessary to meet worldwide demand.

So, with that, I will turn it over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Catherine. So the $148 million for the second quarter, that was the highest quarter since 2008, but I think it's important that we believe it is reflective of current market demand. At the same time, we are increasing our promotional efforts and we just started our branded DTC campaign last month. So we are looking to see if we can continue to accelerate.

Also in the fourth quarter, there may be some seasonality as the flu season hits and some patients are going in to get their flu vaccine, they might also get the PNEUMOVAX vaccine. The question is will they get a third one, which would be ZOSTAVAX.

So we are going to be working very hard in the fourth quarter, but watching it very closely to see if demand can continue to increase.

CATHERINE ARNOLD: Adam, just as a follow-up, are you basically saying that this quarter shows real demand, but there's opportunity to stimulate more demand, if possible?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, I believe that this quarter is real demand and we are going to continue to see if we can accelerate growth moving forward.

CATHERINE ARNOLD: Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein,

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Thank you. On odanacatib, the press release about early stoppage of the trial suggests that there was a safety issue. Can you give us any color even at a high level on what this is and also say when full results will be released?

On REMICADE, which will be your third-biggest drug once SINGULAIR goes off, we recently saw the first biosimilar approval in South Korea. Can you give us your general thoughts on biosimilars against the product? And the VICTRELIS new patient start declines, is that because of warehousing at all, or is that just a natural treatment evolution?

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Thanks, Tim. Ken, you want to start?

KEN FRAZIER: Good morning, Tim. We don't have any updates beyond what we said in our press release. We are waiting, as you are, for the trial to close out following the first planned interim efficacy analysis. We anticipate that will take several months and that the data from the trial will be presented in 2013.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, let me try first to answer your question regarding REMICADE, and if you look at REMICADE, it is currently patent protected in the majority of EU countries until late 2014. We filed for an extended patent license in the EU based upon the pediatric indication, so we are hoping that that will bring exclusivity to 2015.

We are still doing a lot of work but we would expect potentially minimal impact the first few years after biosimilar entry because it will be the first monoclonal antibody biosimilar in the EU. The product will be limited to new patients and we don't think they will necessarily be switching for patients that are controlled. And many of the mechanisms for approval and reimbursement and physician familiarity will take time to build up.

If you look at VICTRELIS, as I said, we have seen a slowing of new patient starts. We think there are a couple reasons for that. The first one is there is a lot of clinical trials that are ongoing and they are enrolling new patients. The second reason is some of the highest prescribing physicians are at capacity of how many patients they can bring into the office and they are not expanding their staff. With the economic environment that they are facing, they are not increasing staff to try to bring in more patients.

And in addition to that, it is the slower summer months. We don't have any sense at this time that there is significant warehousing that is taking place.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Merrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning. Adam, if you consider the next couple of years, is your sales force size and structure appropriate to launch drugs like odanacatib, TREDAPTIVE and suvorexant?

Secondly, for Ken, now that the FDA is open for business at least in theory on biosimilars and in light of your affordability comments, can you share any tangible milestones over the next year or two that relate to Merck's biosimilar strategy? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Let's start with Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, so when you look at the products that you mentioned, they are obviously primary care products. So if you look at odanacatib, you look at suvorexant, you look at TREDAPTIVE, the majority of the prescribing occurs in the primary care offices. We have a significant presence today in every market around the world, including now in markets like China and India and Brazil for primary care.

I believe that the salesforce that we have in the United States and in Europe is appropriately sized to launch important new products into the primary care setting. We are going to make sure that we resource in order to be successful with these products.

In addition to that, several of these products will take market development work and we are going to make sure that we invest in order to ensure that we do the right work for market development. So to answer your question, I believe we have the right sized primary care salesforces. We are going to invest in order to be successful with these new product launches and we feel that we will be prepared in each of the markets around the world to be ready.

KEN FRAZIER: With respect to Merck BioVentures, we have made progress in developing a portfolio of biosimilar targets and securing partnerships to enhance the portfolio and capabilities. As we've said, we also have a number of specific biosimilar molecules in early development.

So we continue to look at those. We continue to prioritize those across our portfolio of both biosimilars and novel biologics but right now, we have nothing more to share on those issues. I would say again that the most prominent of the ones that we have are Rituxan and Enbrel.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I have a couple of questions. Ken, first for you, when you look at your R&D expenditures going forward and given that a number of your large outcomes trials are beginning to wind down, do you see an opportunity to bring that level of spend, that roughly $8 billion-ish and spend down on an absolute basis? Should we think about it that way going forward?

Secondly, to you, Peter, on the 2012 guidance if I heard you correctly, it sounds like you are guiding to the lower end of that range, given the worsening foreign-exchange as well as the gross margin impact from SINGULAIR, and please confirm that that is correct. And also, I just want to make sure we are thinking about the gross margin impact correctly. Can you give us a sense for the magnitude of change over the next several quarters? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Ken, you want to take the please?

KEN FRAZIER: So thanks for your questions, Jami. I think first of all, as I said in my prepared remarks, we remain committed to R&D, and since 2009, we have reduced our R&D annual spend by about $900 million while continuing to invest in key programs. I think as we move forward, we will have greater opportunities in terms of improving efficiencies. You are right, the outcomes studies will be winding down but I am also pleased that the pipeline overall is moving forward.

So as I have tried to say from the very beginning, we want to apply very stringent ROI hurdles to the work that we do in R&D but at the end of the day, R&D spend should be a function of the specific assets that we have in specific stages of development in the pipeline.

PETER KELLOGG: Jami, this is Peter. I will take your next question which is regarding guidance. For 2012, the range that we provided really is the right range. I don't know that we were pointing to the bottom end of the range necessarily. Clearly ForEx is an impact and so that is what we spend time trying to explain. Obviously we mentioned the third quarter ForEx is the biggest impact which all of you know, I'm sure, primarily because the euro was so strong in third quarter last year. So we're lapping a very strong euro as we go through the third quarter. But there was no further than that.

I think on the PGM, it's a good point. Clearly, first of all, I would say that as our PGM has improved it has been through some productivity gains but also through some very positive mix due to some strong margin products.

As SINGULAIR goes off patent, that is a very high PGM product so I think that is something I would really emphasize. That is a very high one so it does have an impact on PGM. And I'd just additionally reiterate what Adam commented on which is that SINGULAIR, while it goes off next week practically in the US, it also has an expiry in Europe in February of 2013 and that's married up with MAXALT US patent expiry in December of this year, and the first TEMODAR generic entry in the US in August of 2013.

So all of those are impacts that affect our PGM going forward. So I wouldn't want to be too dire but I just think as you think about it, these are good PGM products.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And, Jami, maybe I can provide some additional context that will be helpful. As we thought about the SINGULAIR loss of exclusivity in the United States, we looked at other products where they had multiple generics available right at launch, so things like XALATAN that occurred in 2011. We went back and looked at Ambien and Coreg. And what you see is within four weeks they lose over 80% of their sales and then within the second month, they lose 90% of their sales and ultimately they are up to 93%, 94%, thereafter.

So when you have multiple generic products in the marketplace, you do see very rapid decline and that is as you think about modeling, might be helpful.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hey, guys. Thank you for taking my question. Congratulations on a strong quarter. I had two questions if I might. One is one you have gotten before, but I think it would be helpful to ask it again and get an update and that is on the IMPROVE-IT trial. Can you maybe outline your thoughts on what the impact commercially would be to a trial that no harm but it also shows no benefit considering that the label doesn't currently claim an outcomes benefit in any way?

And also, could you give us an update on the timing for the interim and the final, just to make sure we are all straight on that.

And then the second is on JANUVIA. You said that the sulfonylurea class still had 37% of patient days. I was wondering if you could give us that same metric for the entire DPP-4 class right now? Thank you very much.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Ken, do you want to start?

KEN FRAZIER: Yes, so I'll start. Let me first say that we remain confident in the IMPROVE-IT trial and we remain confident on the basis of the LDL hypothesis which I think has been proven over and over again in various studies with various agents and interventions.

We announced previously, in March 2012, that the Independent Data Safety Monitoring Board plan to review data from the study again in approximately nine months. That review has now been scheduled for March 2013 at which point nine months of additional data will have been adjudicated.

So there is no change to the study and we are looking forward to getting that data and we remain confident in these products because we are confident in the LDL hypothesis.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And a couple of things. First of all, with regard to patient days of therapy for JANUVIA -- JANUVIA and the DPP-4s altogether of which JANUVIA is by far the largest, represents about 8% of the current patient days of therapy so it's under 10%. That is the equivalent number to the 37% worldwide number I gave you for the sulfonylurea.

And with regard to IMPROVE-IT, of course we look at all potential outcomes. We believe, as Ken said, that the data supports the LDL cholesterol hypothesis and therefore it will be a positive trial, but we will make sure that we are prepared under any circumstances.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. Ken, I was hoping that you could speak to the 2013 revenue outlook. I know that at your analyst meeting in late 2011, I believe that you made a statement with respect to an aspiration for flattish revenues in 2013 or revenues that would be somewhat consistent with those in 2012. Could you just please update us on your outlook for next year? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Hi, David. Actually, the statement that I made back then was with respect to 2012. We have not provided any 2013 guidance. We will do that later.

DAVID RISINGER: Okay, thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Hello. Thanks for the questions. So, just, Ken, can you update us on your comments about delivering a leveraged P&L as we kind of think about the pushes and pulls as we head into the second half of this year and into 2013? Historically you have commented on that so maybe just update us there.

And then second question, with regard to ZOSTAVAX, and a demand-based performance there, can you just help us understand where that demand is really originating from in terms of the patient pool? Is it really coming from the patients at this point, the over 65 patient population or the new indication of the over 50 patient population? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Ken, you want to start?

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Seamus. I think what I would like to say first of all is that we have articulated a longer-term goal of driving the top line and we have invested in the topline both in our products and in our emerging markets and we are going to do that.

But we also have this aspiration of growing the bottom line in a faster fashion and so that remains our long-term goal through the pushes and pulls of patent expiries and everything, there will be certain periods where things might look a little bit different but be clearer. That is our long-term goal and we have been able to do that in the first half of 2012.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, and if you look at ZOSTAVAX, the vast majority, we believe, is coming from patients over the age of 60 and if you look at 2010 data from the CDC which is the only data that we have right now, they estimated that about 15% of the 60 plus population was vaccinated. If you try to extrapolate based upon the data that was provided then, it might be somewhere around 20% to 25%. So there is still an opportunity to grow.

There's over 50 million adults 60 plus years of age, and 41 million of the adults are between the ages of 50 to 59. So you can see that there is still a large group above the age of 60 and that is where the majority we believe of the sales are coming from right now.

And also we have to wait for the ACIP recommendation in order to really be successful with people below the age of 60.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: I have two questions. On IMPROVE-IT, the interim look appears to have been delayed from Q4 this year to March of 2013 while the final outcome remains June 2013. I assume the delay is because of insufficient events, but doesn't that raise a concern about the final results? So perhaps you can comment on that?

Second, on odanacatib, what is the European regulatory strategy given that the trial was placebo-controlled? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Steve. Again, I want to reiterate there has been no change with respect to IMPROVE-IT. The move to March 2013 is just a question of the time that it takes to get the data adjudicated after the nine-month look.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And with regard to odanacatib, we are still planning to file in the first half of '13 in Europe, and we feel good about that filing. I think we're also going to have to work very hard on the reimbursement and I think the fact that 25% of women can't tolerate bisphosphonates is actually going to be helpful for us as we start to think about reimbursement in Europe.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, hi. First can you just remind us on BRIDION in the US what is left and when will we see the filing?

Second, just specifically talk about Latin America and what is going on there? There is some one time things happening this year. Will we see growth again in 2013? And then in your prepared remarks, you talked about the emerging markets, pricing pressure. Can you just go into specifics there? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Yes, just to start with BRIDION, Marc, as Ken mentioned, we do plan to file that in 2012. We are right now working on a study to hopefully satisfy the FDA around bleeding times and we look forward to completing that this year and filing this year for BRIDION.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And if you look at the US opportunity for BRIDION, we think that it's an important product potentially. There is 30 million surgeries in the US every year, muscle relaxants are used in about half of those surgeries, so there is also a wide use of agents that BRIDION reverses in the United States and the majority of surgeries in the United States are reversed. So we think with the way BRIDION works in minutes providing a quicker turnaround, it could prove to be very helpful.

The second question with regard to Latin America, we continue to see strong performance in Latin America. We see good performance in countries like Brazil. In Mexico, Merck is now number one in terms of revenue and we show good growth and our evolution index continues to be very strong meaning that we are growing faster than the overall market in most of the Latin American companies.

And then the last question with regard to emerging market pricing pressure, there continues to be pressure in countries like China and other countries, but what is key is the volume growth. Now what we are trying to do is to ensure that there is significant opportunity for our volume to increase much faster than what the price pressure is and that is how we have been successful that we are able to really show significant increases in volume that offset the pricing pressures.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much. Good morning. Adam, as you think about reimbursement in the sleep market for suvorexant, could you please provide us a little color on how that reimbursement actually might be different from say a non-symptomatic area like statins or something like that? That is to say, does it really matter if you are Tier 2 or even Tier 3 relative to the generics?

My second question is could you provide some color given that SINGULAIR stays on patent in Japan until 2016, what percent -- or roughly could you say what percent of total SINGULAIR sales are actually in Japan?

And then, Ken, sorry, but back to Steve Scala's question on IMPROVE-IT. Have previous interim looks included adjudication? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So let me start with SINGULAIR outside of Europe and the United States. It represented 2011 about $1.1 billion of sales and was growing in the single digits. So we think there is continued opportunity in Japan and the emerging markets for SINGULAIR as we move forward.

If you think about the sleep market, it is going to be a very different way to think about reimbursement and I think with generic availability, it could end up in Tier 2 or Tier 3. The key would try to get unrestricted access even if it is in Tier 3.

People are switching in this market all the time. They are looking for the next agent and they are willing to pay out-of-pocket for a good product that could help them sleep. So this is different potentially than other classes such as JANUVIA or the statin market where it was critical to be in the highest tier possible. If you look, branded drugs like the Lunesta and Ambien, they had over $1 billion in sales and that is despite current generics and most of their businesses in Tier 3 today.

ALEX KELLY: And Steve -- Tony, I'm sorry, just on the IMPROVE-IT question, it's a good question. I haven't actually considered that question before, but I would venture to say that they do try to adjudicate the data as they are doing their interim looks before reaching a conclusion. But as I said, that is a not a question that I have contemplated before. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks very much and congrats on the pipeline news flow this quarter. Just three questions here. First, odanacatib, the bisphosphonate market obviously has declined significantly, continues to decline. How are you thinking about going about rebuilding the oral osteoporosis market and does the current market dynamics imply a relatively slow ramp for odanacatib once it is approved?

Second, anacetrapib, can you just update us on when we're going to see the DEFINE extension data and any updates on the REVEAL trial enrollment?

And then finally, the recent Amylin deal, Merck was reported to be looking at the asset. Just more broadly speaking, can you talk about Merck's interest at looking at commercial stage assets such as this versus earlier stage compounds? And maybe just also talk about your interest in expanding your diabetes platform as a whole, what are kind of your priorities here? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Adam, do you want to start?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, let me start with odanacatib. As I said a little bit before, and I will give you a little additional context, we have great reach into the majority of prescribers for osteoporosis markets and the good news is, we know this market very well. There is no doubt that there is a decline in the bisphosphonate class. There is no doubt that there is patient dissatisfaction right now. We will have to invest in order to do market development. We are going to have to really explain the new mechanism of action of odanacatib and have prescribers and payers understand the relevance of a new mechanism in this class.

We will make sure that we have the right resources behind it to do the right market development work and do to be prepared to launch.

ALEX KELLY: So, on the questions about the DEFINE extension, I think that that data could mature sometime in 2013. And there is really -- the REVEAL trial is ongoing and there is really no new updates on the REVEAL trial at this time.

KEN FRAZIER: And regarding Amylin, we don't comment on particular business deals. I will say that as we look out at the marketplace today, we continue to say that there are opportunities to access the kind of external research that will complement our internal efforts in the key therapeutic areas that we want to be leaders in. And we will continue to look at all those opportunities again with a lens of how important is this to build on our current position in the marketplace but also coupled with financial discipline in terms of our ability to access that technology on terms that will allow us to create shareholder value.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And if you look at the diabetes franchise, we continue to divest or invest in DPP-4. We have MK3102 which is our once weekly molecule. We are looking longer-term at mechanisms like GPR40 and then we are also very excited about SmartCells, which is the glucose responsive insulin program, although it's in early stages. So we continue to take a look to make sure we are successful in the diabetes area for some time to come.

ALEX KELLY: So, also, Chris, let me just point out on the DEFINE extension trial, I need to correct myself. I said sometime next year. ClinicalTrials.gov actually lists this trial as finishing in the early part of 2014. Okay. So I think we are now ready for the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Barbara Ryan, Deutsche Bank.

BARBARA RYAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for taking the questions. Most of them have been asked, but maybe just based on the comments that you made in the press release with filing TREDAPTIVE by the end of 2013, I am assuming we are still on track for the HPS2-THRIVE study to complete in the first half.

And then, Peter, if you could just give us an update on share repurchase in the quarter? Thanks so much.

KEN FRAZIER: Yes, we are still very much on track for HPS2-THRIVE. We will probably get that data at the end of the year, by the end of the year. And we are looking forward to a filing in 2013.

PETER KELLOGG: Hi, Barbara, it's Peter. Yes, we had -- we were very active in the second quarter with share repurchase. We actually had more activity than we had in the first quarter, so a good volume of share repurchase activity. When you see the share count outstanding, we do have -- because our stock price has performed well, we actually have more shares coming in through the stock option program. So it has offset some of the impact of that share repurchase activity but we continue to see an opportunity with share repurchase. I think in the second quarter, the neighborhood was about $500 million in share repurchases.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. Let me just make a couple of comments in closing since I know were at the end of our hour. First of all, again, thank you for joining us. This was a good quarter. I think we feel it is indicative of our ability to execute going forward. We continue to focus though on building a foundation for long-term growth which is based on strong operating performance, but also significantly on R&D progression and we continue to see Merck as having a great opportunity going forward to drive shareholder value. So thank you for joining us.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc. | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120810e87r007bz
  


 HD
 Q1  2012  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,951 words
   PD
27 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's first-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, SVP IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Christie, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to Merck's first-quarter 2012 conference call. Before I turn the call over to Ken, I would like to mention a few housekeeping items.

First, there are a number of items in the GAAP results this quarter, such as acquisition-related charges and restructuring costs and certain other items; and you should note that we have excluded those items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables. We have put those in the press release and also in Table 2 so that you can get a better sense of the true underlying performance.

Next, we have also provided tables to help you understand the revenue trends. So there are tables with the GAAP results, and then there are also tables that -- Table 2, which reconciles GAAP P&L to non-GAAP; and Table 3 provides the sales performance of the Company business and the units. During the call, we're going to primarily refer to Table 2 and Table 3 when we talk about performance.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call might be considered forward-looking statements and, as such, such statements are based upon the current beliefs of management and are subject to significant risk and uncertainties. The Company's SEC filings, including our 10-K which was filed for 2011 back at the end of February, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from any projected this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement. And you can find our SEC filings as well as today's earnings release and tables on our website at Merck.com.

This morning I'm joined by Ken Frazier, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board; Adam Schechter, our President of Global Human Health; and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now I would like to introduce Ken Frazier.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex. Good morning, everyone, and thank you all for joining the call today. Our performance in the first quarter underscores key themes that we have emphasized since early 2011 -- growth and execution. We remain committed to building shareholder value through continued execution, while focusing on both performance and innovation.

All in all, this quarter shows a strong start in a year when we intend to overcome a significant patent expiry. We are building momentum, particularly with our key growth drivers, and plan to achieve numerous major milestones in our late-stage pipeline, including a series of important filings with significant commercial potential.

Our focus on aligned execution across geographies and divisions allowed us to deliver worldwide sales of $11.7 billion in the quarter, with solid growth in each of our three major businesses -- 6% in the global pharmaceutical and vaccines business, when one excludes the impact of the J&J arbitration; 7% in Consumer Care; and 8% in Animal Health. It should be noted that we delivered this growth while also tightly managing costs, resulting in an 8% growth in non-GAAP EPS.

Once again we saw double-digit growth from a number of key products in our global pharmaceutical and vaccines business. As always, Adam Schechter will discuss the performance of our product portfolio in more detail.

Consumer Care growth was due to strong performance from brands across the consumer product portfolio in both developed and developing markets, including the US, Canada, Russia, and Brazil.

Animal Health growth was driven by the top 20 products in the portfolio, which grew a combined 18%, excluding foreign exchange, in the quarter. Overall, I remain pleased with the long-term global trends and the growth prospects for both the Consumer Care and Animal Health businesses.

As you know, this is a challenging period for many companies in the industry due to major patent expirations, continued uncertainty in the global economy, and increasing external pressures in the macro healthcare environment. However, we are confident in our ability to successfully manage these pressures and improve Merck's competitive position over the long term. In fact, we believe the growth momentum of our underlying business and the strength of our late-stage pipeline position us well as we prepare for the SINGULAIR patent expiry and beyond. In 2012, we intend to maintain our revenues at or near 2011 levels on a constant currency basis and drive bottom-line growth.

In addition to executing our core business strategies, we also made progress in our efforts to expand in the emerging markets. For the quarter, emerging market sales represented 17% of total pharmaceutical sales. China alone grew 19%, including a 5% benefit from foreign exchange. We continue to estimate that the emerging markets will represent about a quarter of our total pharmaceutical and vaccine sales by the end of 2013.

Our recently announced joint venture partnership with Supera Farma, a Brazilian pharmaceutical company, is just one example of how we intend to grow. The new JV will market, distribute, and sell a portfolio of innovative pharmaceuticals and branded generic products in the Brazilian retail sector.

Earlier this year we outlined a series of upcoming events that we anticipated would impact our business during the course of 2012. Since then we have received FDA approval of JANUMET XR, a new treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines JANUVIA with extended-release metformin. In addition, we remain on track for our five major filings between now and the end of next year, including suvorexant, a new first-in-class treatment for patients with insomnia which will have data presented at an upcoming sleep meeting; BRIDION, a first-in-class neuromuscular reversal agent; V503, a vaccine that provides broader coverage for the prevention of certain HPV-associated cancers; odanacatib, a once-weekly oral compound with a unique mechanism of action for the treatment of osteoporosis; and finally TREDAPTIVE, our novel cholesterol medicine that improves multiple lipid parameters.

Each of these five programs is consistent with our research strategy to develop clinically differentiated drugs which are either first in class or best in class. In either case, we believe our regulatory submissions will include data that allows these products to have significant market opportunities at the time of launch.

Speaking of our research strategy, as we have said in the past we are not relying on internal discoveries alone. In fact, we are devoting significant management time and energy to identifying and accessing external innovation. Our goal is to find those assets that help position us for success in key therapeutic areas and which we can access on terms that create shareholder value.

One example is our recently announced partnership with Endocyte for a late-stage oncology drug that will enhance our pipeline and give us a potential near-term commercial opportunity. The partnership is a good strategic fit with our own approach to oncology, and we believe this exciting first-in-class innovation could have utility in a variety of tumor types including ovarian and lung cancers. We expect the drug to be our sixth major product filing between now and 2013, beginning with an application for accelerated approval in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer in Europe later this year.

Turning to cost management, we continue to strategically manage our costs in a way that affords us the flexibility to make appropriate investments for growth, which we believe is critical in our business. Moving forward, we will continue to make the right investments to capitalize on growth opportunities while driving continuous efficiency improvements. We remain on track to achieve our full synergy targets by the end of this year.

Before I close, let me take a moment to discuss our strategy in the context of the healthcare environment. Merck remains fully committed to discovering and developing innovative medicines and vaccines that save and improve lives.

We are being judicious about where we invest in R&D. We want to put our resources behind the right opportunities, internally and externally, that best address the substantial unmet medical need globally while also creating shareholder value. In the long run, we believe it is those companies that can execute on a platform of innovation that will achieve the market acceptance, growth, and margin strength necessary to succeed in a world of increasing resource scarcity.

In order to take risks to bring new medicines and vaccines forward, we must continue working with governments, payers, and regulators to foster an environment that encourages innovation and access to medicines and vaccines. In the US, that means supporting PDUFA V, which will help a strong stable FDA with the resources necessary to ensure timely drug review. Across the globe, that means focusing on the value that our innovative products bring to individual patients and the healthcare system.

Put differently, this means an unbiased assessment not only of the cost associated with allowing patients meaningful access to innovative medicine, but also the consequences of denying or impeding such access.

In closing, let me emphasize again that we remain confident in our core strategy and our progress in transforming Merck's business. Overall, our focus on successful execution, combined with the strength of our pipeline and product portfolio, will allow us to continue growing both the top line and the bottom line and delivering shareholder value on a sustainable basis. With that I would like to turn the call over now to Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP, PRESIDENT-GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken. Good morning, everyone. It's a pleasure to speak with you today and provide you with an overview of Global Human Health results.

This year is off to a strong start. Reported pharmaceutical and vaccine sales are $10.1 billion. This represents 3% growth compared with the first quarter of 2011, or 6% excluding the REMICADE and SIMPONI sales from transferred territories in 2011.

This performance demonstrates strong execution on our three strategic priorities -- growing the core with our key brands in established markets; expanding the core into new key growth markets; and accelerating new launches.

I'll review with you the highlights of each of the three segments in my comments today. What you are going to see is that our base is strong, it is diverse, and it continues to grow.

So let's begin with the core business, which includes our largest markets and core brands. In the United States, sales grew 7%. Products with long exclusivity -- like JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, GARDASIL, ZOSTAVAX, and VICTRELIS -- drove the majority of growth.

Moving to Europe and Canada, sales declined 4% in the first quarter. However, if you exclude REMICADE and SIMPONI in Canada, which were transferred to J&J, sales were up 2% excluding foreign exchange. This was due to strong contributions from JANUVIA and JANUMET, SIMPONI, and the launch sales of VICTRELIS which I will discuss shortly.

While many of our key brands are growing in volume in the EU, we continue to anticipate an unfavorable mid-single-digit impact from pricing measures in 2012. This is in line with our previous expectations.

Moving on to several core brands, I'll start with JANUVIA and JANUMET, which continued to have strong performance, growing 26% to $1.3 billion this quarter. Despite multiple competitors in the market, JANUVIA and JANUMET retained a 75% share of the global DPP-4 market. JANUVIA's efficacy and broad product offering, including the recent launches of JANUMET XR and JUVISYNC in the United States, support our continued strong leadership in this fast-growing DPP-4 class.

Sales of SINGULAIR were comparable to the first quarter of 2011. SINGULAIR was not a key growth driver this quarter, as we are already seeing pressure from generic competition in certain markets such as Canada and Mexico. When SINGULAIR loses exclusivity in the United States in August we expect multiple generic entrants.

However, SINGULAIR will retain exclusivity in the major European markets until February of 2013, and in Japan until 2016. We expect continued growth for SINGULAIR in Japan and many of the emerging markets through this period.

ISENTRESS continues to be a strong core brand for Merck and a valuable treatment option in the fight against HIV. ISENTRESS grew 15% in the quarter. We are confident ISENTRESS will continue to be a strong choice for patients because of its efficacy, tolerability, and demonstrated safety profile.

In our cholesterol franchise, ZETIA and VYTORIN global sales reached $1.1 billion and were comparable to last year. In the US, ZETIA returned to growth, while VYTORIN continued to decline. Outside of the US, both ZETIA and VYTORIN continued to grow in the high single digits.

Combined REMICADE and SIMPONI sales grew 10% in the retained territories of Europe, Turkey, and Russia this quarter. If you look at REMICADE alone, sales grew 5% despite continued austerity measures.

When looking at SIMPONI, it remains a strong launch brand with $74 million of sales versus $42 million for the same quarter last year in the Merck territories. We recently secured reimbursement for SIMPONI in France for all three rheumatology indications and we will be launching there soon.

Moving to vaccines. Vaccines had a strong quarter of double-digit growth and are benefiting from broader utilization and stable supply.

GARDASIL maintained its strong performance this quarter with 33% growth over the prior year due to continued uptake of the male indication in the United States and the launch in Japan.

Sales of ZOSTAVAX were $76 million this quarter. We continue to build inventory to ensure a stable supply and we're increasing our promotional efforts to grow demand. Earlier this month we launched a national television disease education campaign in the United States; this is intended to increase awareness of shingles risk. We will begin a new branded print and online campaign later this year.

Now let me highlight how we're expanding the core. In the first quarter, emerging market sales of $1.7 billion were in line with the previous year. Excluding REMICADE sales in the relinquished territories, the emerging markets grew 9% this quarter, or 11% excluding exchange.

Our growth in the emerging markets was driven by China, Brazil, Asia-Pacific, Eastern Europe, Middle East, and Africa. Although there is pricing pressure in certain emerging markets, we are maximizing the growth of our core brands, we are launching new brands, and we are building capabilities with our diversified brands to leverage lifecycle management opportunities. For example, in several emerging markets we are now launching COZAAR XQ, a combination of COZAAR and amlodipine.

China continues to be a key growth driver, with 19% growth this quarter, or 14% excluding exchange. The growth was driven by our hospital and specialty business lines as well as contributions from our diversified brands and our core brands.

It is important to note that we have not yet received national reimbursement for key products like JANUVIA and ZETIA. We have plans to file for approval for additional innovative products in the near future, all of which will drive continued growth.

Our growth in Japan this quarter was 9%, or approximately 4% excluding exchange. Our sales this quarter reflect the expected biennial price cuts and lower wholesaler inventory levels. In addition, first quarter of 2011 and 2012 comparisons were affected by Japan's very strong allergy season last year versus a late start to the season this year.

We continue to see strong growth from many of our top-selling brands, including JANUVIA and ZETIA, and for launch brands including BRIDION and GARDASIL. Looking ahead, we believe we have continued opportunity for very strong growth in Japan.

Moving to the third part of our growth strategy, accelerating new launches. We are now launching many products, including DULERA in the United States, GARDASIL in Japan, and VICTRELIS around the world. New products contributed more than $180 million in revenue this quarter.

Now I would like to give you an update on VICTRELIS. Global sales in the first quarter were $111 million. In the United States, share continued to grow, and VICTRELIS ended the quarter with approximately a 38% TRx share. This share does not include the VA.

While we are pleased with the consistent share gains over the last six months, we are keeping a close eye on recent Rx trends for the class. There are still a high number of patients needing treatment, and we are working to widen our universe of physicians prescribing VICTRELIS.

Internationally, VICTRELIS was launched in Australia and Mexico this quarter. We are now launching in about 20 markets in total. VICTRELIS maintains a greater than 50% patient share in many of these markets including France, the UK, and Canada. This rapid uptake signals the value of VICTRELIS and what it represents to patients, physicians, and to payers.

In summary, Global Human Health continued its consistent strong operational performance, and we executed on our growth strategy this quarter. We believe this momentum positions us well for success in the remainder of 2012 as we face the SINGULAIR US patent expiry in August.

So if there is one thing I would like you to remember, it is that our base is strong, it is diverse, and it continues to grow. I believe we can deliver strong results in 2012 through our key growth drivers -- our core products, our launch brands, and our performance in the emerging markets and Japan. We look forward to updating you on our performance throughout the year.

Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam; and good morning. As you heard from Ken and Adam, we delivered another high-quality quarter. We drove revenue growth and managed expenses carefully, resulting in an even faster bottom-line growth. And we achieved this performance while continuing to make strategic investments necessary to fuel future growth.

Our results in the first quarter have established a strong foundation for 2012, as we build momentum ahead of the SINGULAIR patent expiration. This morning I'll briefly talk about our performance in the first quarter, and I will discuss our outlook for the second quarter and our financial targets for 2012.

Now, let me start with the operating results. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP financials, which exclude acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs, and certain other items. On this basis we earned $0.99 this quarter, 8% higher than the prior year.

As Ken and Adam mentioned, we drove revenue growth in each of our three major business units, up 3% in Human Health, or up 6% excluding the impact of REMICADE and SIMPONI in the territories transferred to J&J; up 8% in the Animal Health business; and up 7% in Consumer Care.

Now despite the strong growth in each of our major businesses our total revenues grew only 1% due to a 43% reduction in alliance revenue and third-party manufacturing sales. On the third-party manufacturing front, remember that we divested our toll biomanufacturing business to Fuji Film during the first quarter of 2011. We have now annualized that divestiture, so we don't expect it to have an impact going forward; but it did impact Q1.

Additionally this quarter our supply sales to Astra were reduced due to two things. First, lower commercial demand for Nexium; and second, the timing of supply to Astra, which can create variability in the top line for us, and it did this quarter. Both of these factors resulted in lower supply sales from Merck.

Now let me turn to our expenses in the first quarter. Total operating expenses were flat in the first quarter despite making growth-driving investments.

On product costs, our cost of sales were $113 million higher this quarter, resulting in non-GAAP gross margin of 76.1%. The gross margin was lower on a year-over-year basis primarily due to exchange.

Moving onto M&A, this quarter marketing and administrative expenses were $3 billion, a decrease of about $100 million. The decrease was due to the year-over-year impact of reduced field forces, actions that improved our operating efficiency across the Company, and decreased promotional spending on certain more mature brands such as SINGULAIR. Our research and development expense this quarter was $1.8 billion, which is in line with the first quarter of 2011.

Now moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 24.8% in the first quarter, which included about 30 basis points of unfavorable discrete items. However, this rate is still within the range we previously provided.

Now let me provide some commentary on our 2012 guidance, which, based on our performance in the first quarter, is unchanged from the guidance we provided in February. As you will recall, our guidance has taken into account the known 2012 headwinds -- such as the US SINGULAIR patent expiration in August; the full-year impact of the J&J settlement; mid-single-digit pricing pressure in Europe; and the biennial price reductions in Japan. And despite these headwinds, the underlying momentum of Merck's business and the growth of our key products enable us to maintain our 2012 revenues at or near 2011 levels on a constant currency basis.

Consistent with our prior guidance, at current exchange rates full-year sales would be adversely affected by about 2% to 3%. As expected, foreign exchange had a 1% unfavorable impact on revenues in the first quarter. At today's exchange rates, for example, sales in the second quarter would be adversely affected by about 3%.

Now let me discuss how we expect revenues to be spread throughout 2012, just as I did in our earlier prior earnings calls. We continue to believe that the second quarter will be the strongest quarter due to the allergy season and the last full quarter of SINGULAIR sales in the US prior to patent expiry. Meanwhile, sales in the fourth quarter are expected to be the lowest, primarily due to the US SINGULAIR patent expiration.

On R&D expenses, we expect to maintain non-GAAP R&D expenses at about the same level as in 2011 on a full-year basis, but there will be some upward pressure from upfront payments for any deals that we complete in 2012. For example, the recently announced Endocyte deal will add $120 million to our second-quarter R&D spending, so you should adjust your models accordingly for that.

The Endocyte deal is indicative of the active business development program we are pursuing. However, it is hard to predict which other deals may be consummated, their size, or their timing.

Regarding tax, we continue to expect our 2012 non-GAAP tax rate to be in the range of 23% to 25%. Finally, at current exchange rates, we expect our non-GAAP EPS to be between $3.75 and $3.85, which includes the impact of the Endocyte deal.

As I mentioned before, our guidance also assumes that we will retain revenue and equity income from the Astra JV for at least half of 2012. As Astra said yesterday, they have up to six months to exercise the option, beginning in May. In fact, the working assumption in our plan is that we will retain the JV roughly through September. Now keep in mind the timing can be different from our assumption, and Astra retains the final decision about the option.

As with revenues, we expect second-quarter EPS to be the strongest quarter and fourth-quarter EPS to be the lowest of the year. On a GAAP basis we expect EPS to be between $2.04 and $2.30.

So to wrap up my comments, we are off to a very good start. We grew the top line and we delivered a leveraged P&L, which resulted in even faster bottom-line growth. As a result of the underlying momentum, the growth of our core products, and the promising R&D projects we highlighted in our pipeline, we continue to be optimistic about our outlook for 2012 and the years ahead.

Thank you. Now I'll turn the call over to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter. Now we would like to open up the call to take your questions. In order to help us to get through as many questions as possible, please limit yourself to one or two questions and make note that we won't take any follow-up questions. But if you do have additional questions, you are welcome to rejoin the queue.

Christie, we are ready to take Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you for taking my question. Ken, just a first one for you. In calling out the strong performance of Animal Health and Consumer, are you saying that you are committed to keeping these businesses? Or are you considering or would you consider monetizing these assets, which would more than likely trade at much higher multiples than where Merck currently trades, as we have seen with a recent disposal in this business?

My second question is to Adam. Adam, there was clearly a lot of very exciting data presented at EASL last week in Barcelona, which would suggest a very high bar to compete in an all-oral hepatitis C regimen. In light of that, can you just elaborate again on your plans for MK-5172? Many of your competitors have been busy collaborating and partnering, and we have seen less of that activity with you. But if you can just put that into perspective, thanks a lot.

KEN FRAZIER: First of all, Jami, thanks for your questions and good morning. What I would say is that first of all we, as I said a few minutes ago, we are pleased with the assets that we have in the Company's business portfolio. And we believe that both Animal Health and Consumer Care complement our Human Health business and contribute to the top- and bottom-line growth. You saw this quarter Consumer Care grew 7%, Animal Health grew 8%.

So I think what we are trying to do around here is focus on creating long-term shareholder value, and we believe that both Animal Health and Consumer Care can help contribute to that. For us, though, I think we believe that our R&D pipeline is the most undervalued and underappreciated part of our business. We are committed to unlocking the value that we believed that pipeline represents.

Data from important clinical trials that are coming due in 2012 and 2013 should help in that regard. So once again, what we are trying to do is to create long-term shareholder value. We look at our assets, and we try to determine where we can create the most value going forward.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Jami, with regard to your question, so first of all there was a lot of interesting assets in HCV as the science continues to move forward. As you look for shorter, better tolerated, more effective therapies, it was absolutely exciting at EASL for sure.

What the EASL data showed us is that there is a need for multiple mechanisms and that there is room for (technical difficulty). We are also aggressively pursuing new, more convenient and interferon-free therapies.

We are focusing on MK-5172, either in combination with other internal candidates -- so you saw our NS5A data in Phase -- I but we're also looking for partnerships with others.

So our goal is to develop an all-oral regimen. We want to maximize SVR, shorten duration of therapy, and minimize side effects. And we believe that 5172 has a great profile and it could be the partner protease inhibitor of choice for oral combination regimens.

We don't comment on our business development, but as you can imagine we're in discussions with multiple potential opportunities.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks very much. Just two questions here.

Maybe first talking about the JANUVIA competitive dynamics, I guess we haven't seen a lot of large categories, particularly primary care, with multiple competitors where you get one asset holding the vast majority of market share. At the same time we haven't seen a lot of traction from Shantha. We have seen the alogliptin.

I guess longer-term do you think Merck can hold this high level of share in the category? Or do we inevitably see a shift to a less consolidated market share position over time?

And the second question is on ISENTRESS. How are you thinking about competitive dynamics as we look out a few years, with the potential once-daily product coming to market? Do you believe you can continue to grow this franchise longer term if that once-daily product -- I guess with comparable efficacy -- is approved? Or just how are you thinking about that product progressing over time? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks for the question, Chris. I will say that long-term I do believe that Merck can continue to hold a very strong part of the DPP-4 market despite having multiple competitors. Adam will give you his views as to exactly why that is the case.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Thanks for the question, Chris. I think the first thing to note is that we do have a 75% share of the DPP-4 class. If you look at the US, we have an 80% share. In Japan we're at about a 70% share. In some markets we already have five competitors in that class, and we are still able to maintain our share.

I think that physicians are very comfortable with the efficacy profile and the safety profile of JANUVIA. If you look at the data we have that shows that JANUVIA maximizes the mechanism, they really see that the efficacy you can get from this mechanism you can see from JANUVIA. When you combine that with the safety profile, you'd have to ask -- why would there be a need to use anything other than JANUVIA?

The other key thing is that sulfonylureas still have 37% patient days of therapy, so it represents a very big opportunity for us to continue to move into other classes and continue to have strong DPP-4 growth. Therefore, I think the future potential is still very, very strong.

That is what makes me excited about 3102 in our pipeline. Because I believe ultimately when you move to a once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor that could even penetrate into other classes such as sulfonylureas even more. So we remain excited, we remain committed, and we have significant support that we put behind JANUVIA.

KEN FRAZIER: And we're going to Phase III in that, in 3102 this year.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Right.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please. Oh, I'm sorry.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Did you want me to address ISENTRESS? So, ISENTRESS remains a very important product. When you think about ISENTRESS, the amount of efficacy data that we have, the safety data that we have, the drug interaction data that we have -- it all is very important particularly as more and more HIV patients are living longer and have comorbidities. So it's now about 70% of patients have comorbidities while they're on ISENTRESS.

I think a bid drug in this class will be okay because many of these patients are taking multiple drugs already. But in addition to that, you have to trade off the long-term safety, efficacy, and tolerability data that you have with ISENTRESS for a newer drug with a lot of unknowns. So, I believe trading off once-a-day versus a very well-known product that has a long history is not something that we are concerned about, particularly with the quad.

We think that having two drugs in the quad, a boosting agent that hasn't been utilized or a new integrase inhibitor, versus staying with ISENTRESS which has such long data with it, we will continue to be successful with ISENTRESS.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Thank you, Adam. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen and Company.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: I have two questions. First on ZOSTAVAX, I'm surprised that sales were down quarter over quarter given the resolving manufacturing situation. To what extent is the $76 million reflective of underlying demand? So that is the first question.

The second question is on AZLP. AstraZeneca seems intent on exercising option 2 at the earliest opportunity, and their primary objective seems to be to gain their strategic freedom. If it is AstraZeneca's gain, I assume it is a lost opportunity for Merck.

So would you explain what opportunity Merck is losing via AstraZeneca gaining its strategic freedom? And this goes beyond the contingent payments. It is some element that has nothing to do with the financials. So can you explain that, please? Thank you.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Okay, so let me start off with the ZOSTAVAX. So quarter-one sales were $76 million, most with which was in the United States. As I said before, it was going to take a quarter or two before we can actually see revenues predictive of demand.

We wanted to wait until we had enough supply to feel confident to really start to generate additional demand and run our direct-to-consumer advertising, which you saw we just started to run very recently. We now have about four months of supply in the market or available to us for the marketplace, so we were confident that we can start to run our direct-to-consumer advertising, that we can increase our promotional efforts behind ZOSTAVAX. So it really is going to take us another three to six months to have a much better understanding of the underlying demand.

But there really is a large unmet medical need that still exists. If you look at data from the CDC in 2010, only 15% of the 60-plus age group has been vaccinated with ZOSTAVAX. So as we continue to build demand, we think that there is a lot of opportunity here.

KEN FRAZIER: I would also add that we have continued to work very hard on making the right kind of manufacturing enhancements and investments that are necessary to increase our long-term supply of ZOSTAVAX. We are encouraged by the progress that we are seeing right now, and we expect additional varicella bulk capacity and production this year and next year. I think this will give us the confidence to enable the expansion of ZOSTAVAX in the US as well as in additional markets overseas.

PETER KELLOGG: So, I can take the AstraZeneca LP joint venture question. Steve, I appreciate the interest in that. Obviously, that is an event -- or that's a relationship that has been great long term, and there is this option coming up shortly. I think what we have tried to do is provide the financial profile of what the business looks like and give you some sense of how to think about it in the future if the option is exercised.

But in terms of the strategic implications, I do apologize; I think that I would suggest that you address those questions to our partner and get the sense of how they might think about that. I think one of the nice things about this relationship is it is one that has been well designed. I think the relationship of how it moves forward is pretty well articulated. So we just await to hear from our partner.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Thank you. On REMICADE and biosimilars, can you tell us what you have in your planning assumptions for when biosimilars will arrive in Europe? Dossier has been filed, and it seems like it could happen as soon as 2013.

On emerging markets, if you correct for the REMICADE settlement, what was your year-on-year growth rate?

And then on odanacatib, have you done the first interim look yet? And if not, is that a second-quarter event?

ALEX KELLY: Peter, want to start?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure. On the REMICADE biosimilar question for Europe, I think there is a lot of news flow out there in terms of different companies that are developing biosimilar, and I think it is just sort of a triangulation.

We actually think the REMICADE position is quite unique. It's a very strong therapy and it's used in a particular way for the group of patients that it is used with.

Clearly, biosimilars is an opportunity everywhere around the world. But I think actually we are optimistic REMICADE and SIMPONI will hold a nice position over there.

I think the patent goes out to August 2014. So that would be roughly what we would be thinking about; but nonetheless, we will see how things evolve.

On the emerging market, why don't I let Adam take that.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, if you look at the emerging markets, if you remove REMICADE from the relinquished territories in emerging markets, we had 9% sales growth or 11% ex-exchange. I think it is important to note, though, if you excluded China from that number we still had 10% growth with ForEx in all the other emerging markets combined. So the emerging market strength is broad across the emerging markets.

ALEX KELLY: So on odanacatib, Steve, there is our two interim looks that are planned for the trial. We have one interim look planned at 70% of the event, and one interim look at 85% of the event. And I would just say there is nothing to report at this time on that trial.

Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, could you talk about Japan just a little bit more? What kind of expectations you have for growth this year, just given the price cuts that we are expecting. How much is price going to impact you, and what kind of volume growth are you expecting?

What are the key growth drivers? Do you have any more key launches this year?

Second question is, can you just tell us on GARDASIL what percent the male orders are taking up right now?

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Adam?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So let me start with Japan. Our sales grew 9% this quarter, or 4% ex-exchange. There were four items that affected our sales this quarter.

The first one was the biennial price decrease, as well as some lower inventory levels. If you look at the average reduction across products on a national registry in Japan, it is about 6%. Our biennial price decrease was about the same as that.

Also I mentioned that there was a stronger allergy season in the first quarter of 2011 versus 2012. We also had supply sales through a co-marketer partner recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011. That happens every other quarter, so we didn't have supply sales for JANUVIA in the first quarter of this year.

Then the last thing, if you remember the beginning of last year, after the first quarter, we mentioned that there was buy-in of about $50 million in Japan that did not occur this year. So there are some reasons why the growth in Japan was 9% versus some -- if you look at fourth quarter in particular.

But with that said, we see continued growth for a lot of our top-selling brands. We see a lot of growth for JANUVIA, for ZETIA, for BRIDION, and we are still just launching GARDASIL as we speak. So, there is still a lot to move forward there.

With regard to GARDASIL, we still have a lot of growth that we can continue. We are seeing strength in vaccinations of males. It is very hard to tell exactly how much is coming just from males. The data is not easy to get.

Based on the latest sector claims, which is about 50% of the sales that go through the private sector, the first dose of GARDASIL among adolescents of 11 to 18, of males, is about 30% of the first dose claims. That is the best data we have to try to give an indication of what that means and what the penetration to males is, although it is not exact. The penetration, we believe, is still less than 20% overall in males.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the results. Just first question on VYTORIN. A trial between generic manufacturers concluded in the latter part of December and then a summation hearing occurred in early March in the Newark courts. You had opted, at least Schering did, to settle with Glenmark on ZETIA. Just can we get any idea as to your thinking about settling versus allowing this thing to go to decision here going forward and what your strategy is?

Then second question for Peter, just any thoughts on the amount of shares that you repurchased within the quarter? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: I'll start with VYTORIN. We believe we have a very strong case. We believe this was a patent that is valid and enforceable, and we believe that the court heard the evidence well, and we are anticipating a favorable decision in this case. So that is the basis upon which we look at how we will go and deal with that going forward.

PETER KELLOGG: John, this is Peter. Thanks. During the first quarter, we purchased a little over 12 million shares, which was about $450 million of spend. I think you would note that that is pretty similar to the trend we had last year.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

ALEX KELLY: Catherine, is your phone on mute? Okay, let's go ahead and take the next question, operator.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

ALISON YANG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: This is Alison Yang asking questions on behalf of Tony. Two questions.

First of all, Adam, on your comment about VICTRELIS, are you seeing any patient fatigue or difficulty recruiting new patients? Are you seeing any warehousing?

Your comment regarding expanding the physician reach, I am just curious because, based on our research, most physicians that treat hep C in the US have already prescribed either VICTRELIS or Incivek. So where is this potential headroom in the US patient base?

Secondly, could you, Adam, please describe your Phase II [assessing] oncology, dalotuzumab, the Endocyte agent, the ALK inhibitor 2206? Can you give us a sense of what is the going-forward plan there? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Go ahead with (multiple speakers).

ADAM SCHECHTER: So let me start with your question on VICTRELIS. If you look at VICTRELIS, there is still a significant number of physicians that have not yet prescribed either of the two protease inhibitors. In fact, of the anywhere from 9,000 to 11,000 physicians that prescribe these products, there is still about 3,500 to 4,000 that we see in the IMS data that have not yet prescribed. So we think that there is still significant room to get additional physicians to prescribe the product.

In addition to that there were some of the prescribing physicians that had written for Incivek but not yet VICTRELIS. And we are seeing an increase in a number of physicians that are writing for both products now.

So we still have room to get additional physicians that have not yet prescribed VICTRELIS but have prescribed Incivek to move over and try both of those agents. So I think they both represent significant opportunities, getting new physicians to begin to treat and then getting physicians that have not yet used it, but are treating, to use VICTRELIS.

With regard to our oncology strategy, it really is to look at patient subpopulations that we can define and use biomarkers in order to treat those patients. If you look at the licensing deal that Ken mentioned with Endocyte, that is exactly the types of products that we are looking for. Because we believe that by identifying targeted therapy we can get better payer payments, we can get better treatment rates, and we can actually increase our ability to penetrate into the marketplaces.

So we really are building our pipeline. There is data coming out at ASCO on a variety of our programs of targeted therapies, and we are excited about our future in oncology.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hey, guys. Thanks a lot for taking the question. I really appreciate it. I wanted to ask a question; it is probably for Ken or Peter.

The first is -- I have just noticed it seems like for several quarters now your SG&A as well as your R&D seems to come in a little bit below what Wall Street is modeling. So I am wondering if you share that opinion, if maybe you could give a little color as to why the analyst community seems to be overestimating your spend on the margin?

Then the second question is more of a capital allocation question, and it's a little bit more open-ended. I recognize it will be challenging to answer.

But last year, obviously, at your analyst meeting late in the year you boosted the dividend a significant amount and the stock reacted. The stock also reacted very significantly. I am wondering if you could help us think about what your plans are this year regarding a hike in the dividend, whether or not our expectations should be similar to last year, or in some fashion different. Thank you very much.

ALEX KELLY: Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Mark, for the question. Let me first start with the patterns of the SG&A and R&D spend that you are seeing over the last few quarters. What we have tried to say is that we will look for the right opportunities to invest in launches, for example, DTC on the SG&A side. And of course, there is a normal up and down that goes on in the clinical programs in our R&D budget.

So I would say that we will see some up and down around that. The trend overall, we have been trying to show much more efficiency going forward. And you may see some seasonal timing changes, but our goal is to tightly manage our cost structure going forward. That is the best that I can say on that.

On the dividend issue, as you know, we have a long history of returning cash to our shareholders. And we did increase the dividend back in January. At the same time we have been very active in our share repurchases, buying back about $450 million worth of shares in this past quarter.

So I would just say we don't have a set dividend policy but we intend to remain shareholder friendly in terms of returning cash to shareholders, while at the same time building and maintaining a very strong financial profile and business profile.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

TOM CHIU, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: This is Tom for Dave. We have two questions. One is how will you be communicating to odanacatib fracture outcomes interim look later this year?

Second, does the new IMPROVE-IT look in December include a fertility analysis? Thanks very much.

ALEX KELLY: So you are talking about the IMPROVE-IT trial. So, what we know from the DSMB is that they have looked at the data at the 75% look. They recommended the trial continue on unchanged, which now they have quite a few years' worth of data in this program. And they have asked that they -- or have suggested they will take another look at nine months. That is the extent of the details that we have regarding the next IMPROVE-IT look.

KEN FRAZIER: I think there was an odanacatib question too.

ALEX KELLY: Yes. In terms of the odanacatib look, those interim looks could take place this year, but the timing is really dependent on the occurrence rates for the events. The thing I would notice that we would plan to file that odanacatib in 2013 regardless of whether we get a successful interim look or whether the trial goes to completion.

So our timing is set on 2013. And it's really unclear that we would see any data this year from that trial unless there is some kind of outcome from the interim looks. But we will keep you informed about that going forward.

Okay. Next question.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. I have two. First, a strategic question on diabetes. You're obviously well covered in DPP-4 globally and with combos and stuff, and you seem excited about some earlier stuff like smart insulin. But can you comment on your appetite to fill any gaps in particular with drugs or devices, sort of between those two, in the middle of that continuum?

Then secondly on the Consumer front, I asked the Company about the potential for OTC statins back at the time of your Analyst Day; and the Company seemed skeptical at that point. But given the FDA's apparent interest in the area, I thought I would revisit the issue. Do you see an OTC or some modified behind-the-counter model that could take shape? And if so, over what rough time frame? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Well, I would say that on the OTC question, we don't see any real guidance from the FDA that changes our perspective on this. Obvious, it's a product-by-product decision that the FDA will make. And we continue to see that with our product portfolio there will be opportunities going forward, but I can't say that anything has changed in terms of our logic as it relates to the Consumer business and the OTC business going forward.

Your other question I believe had to do with our perspective on building out our diabetes franchise. What I would say about that is, as I said earlier with respect to the other areas where we want to compete going forward, we are going to look for opportunities to build out our portfolio in the near term and the longer term, as long as those opportunities will help us have market leadership. We want to find assets that will grow, and we also want to find assets that we can buy or bring in on a basis that provides us an opportunity to create long-term shareholder value.

So diabetes is a critical area for us. It is one of the ones that we intend to be winners in, in the long run.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Operator, I think we have time for just two more questions, if you could take them please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thanks very much for taking the question. Just, Adam and Ken, this is I guess for both of you to some degree. Just remind us, with both odanacatib and suvorexant, I always assumed that you will probably lead with efficacy as best you can. But can you just give us your thoughts on the real differentiating attributes of both of these products? Whether it be trial design features or specific product attributes that are going to position you to win versus the current options. Again, this is including the multiple generics out there. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: I will start off and then I will add Adam fill in. The first thing that I think has been true for Merck is that our sweet spot is really coming to market with new science and clinical differentiation. I think that is going to be true for both of these medicines, notwithstanding the fact that there are generic competitors in the marketplace, both in sleep as well as osteoporosis.

So with respect to the sleep compound we have a number of attributes. We have pointed out that we have good sleep onset efficacy; good sleep maintenance efficacy; lack of meaningful next-day residual effect; and a safety profile allowing for chronic use. About 30% of the patients who are in this market need chronic sleep therapy. So we think that suvorexant comes to market in a way that is differentiated for people who have to travel, people who have to use sleep medication. Not having that drowsiness, those next-day residual effects are important to them. We have data with respect to drivers where we see that it really does make a difference.

On odanacatib, I would start by saying that a quarter of all the women who are eligible for osteoporosis treatment cannot tolerate bisphosphonates. There is declining use of bisphosphonates due to some concerns that have been raised around long-term safety.

What we have here is a unique mechanism that shows positive trends beyond what the bisphosphonates provide. We're actually expecting also to have a fracture outcomes trial which should read out in 2013, which should demonstrate the benefit of this product vis-a-vis the bisphosphonates.

This is a classic example of what I was saying before, that if people just focused on the differential in cost they are missing the differential in efficacy and the consequences that come from things like hip fractures later, which are debilitating to women.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. I think we are ready for our last question, please.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I hope you guys can hear me this time.

ALEX KELLY: Loud and clear.

CATHERINE ARNOLD: Awesome, thanks. Okay. Two drugs I just want to ask you about, one is PD-1 and the other is odanacatib. On PD-1 could you remind us in terms of timing and priorities, and if this is a research program that might be able to accelerate given that you would obviously be studying it in end-stage disease, and how it might be different than the other PD-1s in the industry pipeline?

And odanacatib, I just wanted -- could you give us some background? Just remind us what -- the fracture baseline rates you are expecting in the control arm for the study.

Also Ken, on your comment regarding the market deceleration of bisphosphonates, obviously it is a dramatic change in prescription demand for the category. So I am wondering how that is featuring into the market research you are getting on the interest in odanacatib. Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: So, Catherine, this is Alex, on the PD-1, I believe there is going to be an abstract presented at ASCO. So it is pretty early phase for us right now, but it is certainly an interesting area and it's something that we will be interested to see, as that data is presented at ASCO how the oncologists are starting to think about that class.

On odanacatib, there is no publication at this point on the real background of these patients; but I think we have some information to provide relative to the power of the study. But there is no baseline study or in terms of characteristics of the patients that has been studied -- published so far.

KEN FRAZIER: Yes, and the study is 90% powered to detect a 35% reduction in the relative risk of hip fracture.

I also would answer your other question, Catherine, about market research by saying that we have been interacting with key opinion leaders in the osteoporosis field. Remember this is a field that Merck essentially pioneered a number of years ago with Fosamax.

What those opinion leaders are telling us is that they are extraordinarily excited by what they see in odanacatib. They are glad that Merck stayed in this field. That there is a need for an improved set of therapies for these women.

Women are living longer. They are living -- they want to be independent longer. And these fractures, whether they are vertebral fractures or hip fractures, are in fact really big issues for those women and for societal costs in terms of people going into long-term care, etc.

So we are very pleased to be in these marketplaces. Again, I will come back and say that I think osteoporosis is a field where there is still very much unmet need.

So let me close by saying a couple of things. First of all, thank you for hearing us out this morning.

We have said from the very beginning that our ultimate goal would be to create long-term shareholder value and that we thought the way that we needed to do that was to have sustainable revenue growth and faster growth on the bottom line. And I think this quarter is another quarter where we showed that profile.

And importantly, in a year in which we are losing our biggest product, SINGULAIR, we see strong portfolio performance across our key growth drivers, and going forward we look to multiple pipeline catalysts in 2012 and 2013.

So thank you very much for your attention and I look forward to seeing you soon.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc. | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120511e84r004sa
  


 HD
 Q4  2011  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,292 words
   PD
2 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to Merck's fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, SVP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Brooke and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Merck's 2011 fourth quarter conference call. Before I turn the call over to Ken Frazier, I want to mention a few housekeeping items. First, there are a number of items in the GAAP results such as acquisition related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. We have excluded those items from our non-GAAP results and you can see our reconciliation tables in the press release and also in table 2 that accompanies the press release. That will help you get a better understanding of the underlying performance.

Next, we've also provided tables to help you understand the sales of our key products around the world. There are three tables in the press release. Table 1 is the GAAP results. Table 2 reconciles GAAP, P&L items to non-GAAP, and the third table provides the summary of our product sales. During the call we will be referring primarily to table 2 and table 3.

Finally I'd like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The statements are based upon the current beliefs of Management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties and I'd like to invite you to refer to our SEC filings including our 10K, especially Item 1a which identifies certain risk factors and other cautionary statements which could cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements we make today. You can see our SEC filings as well as our press release and other tables on our website which is merck.com. This morning I'm joined by Ken Frazier, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Chairman of our Board, Adam Schechter, our President of Global Human Health, and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now I'd like to introduce Ken Frazier.

KEN FRAZIER, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call today. As we close out 2011, we remain as committed as ever to our mission of translating cutting edge science in the medically important products that make a real difference in people's lives. During the course of this last year, I had the opportunity to meet with many of our customers, including leading physicians, large health plans, and health ministers around the world. What I consistently heard reinforced two points to me. First, there is still a progress agenda. The world will reward those companies that can create and deliver innovative medicines and vaccines that address unmet needs. Second, there is a productivity agenda. In the face of rising healthcare costs, those companies that can drive significant productivity gains both for their customers and within their own operating models will be the ones who survive and thrive. That is why doing great science and delivering customer value both in a sustainable manner remain the broader context for everything we're doing at Merck.

Having said that I'd like to now turn to our fourth quarter and 2011 results. We closed out the year with a high quality fourth quarter growing the top line 2% and the bottom line 10%. Our overall performance in 2011 confirms our ability to deliver strong operational results in the short-term while investing for growth over the longer term. In addition, it gives us confidence that we can achieve our ambitious plans for 2012 and beyond. One of the differentiating success factors that allows companies to succeed over the long term is their ability to respond to the challenges they continue to face. I'm pleased with the way our teams responded to and overcame the challenges we encountered in 2011. In fact, we grew full year 2011 sales by 4% and leveraged our cost base to drive a 10% increase in non-GAAP EPS. This performance is an early indicator that we are on the correct path with our strategy which focuses on executing on our plans to optimize our core business, expanding in key markets around the world, extending our presence in complementary businesses like Consumer Care and Animal Care, and accelerate-- excelling at operating our business for maximum efficiency so that we can invest for future growth. We fully intend to execute this strategy well, which will lead to strong and sustainable cash flow and increased shareholder return. I outlined the fundamentals of the strategy during our recent R&D day and today, I will talk about how we executed against it in the fourth quarter and the full year.

Our results this quarter and for the full year were driven by broad strength across our in line portfolio with double digit growth from our key brands. This growth underscores the benefits of maximizing our portfolio and has allowed us to maintain or begin building a leadership position in selected therapeutic areas. For example, JANUVIA is now the number one oral anti-diabetic medicine globally. As always, Adam will discuss our product performance in more depth. Among our major accomplishments in 2011 was protecting the value of one of our key franchises by successfully resolving the arbitration with J & J. As you will recall, the agreement allows us to maintain the majority of the REMICADE and SIMPONI value. We believe these products will make important contributions in 2012 and beyond.

In addition to driving growth in our key products, we remain firmly committed to translating cutting edge science in the medically important medicines and vaccines. Perhaps the most notable R&D accomplishment of 2011 was the approval and launch of VICTRELIS in North America, Europe and Latin America, ahead of our competition. For the quarter, we had three additional developments. The approval and launch of JUVISYNC, in the US, the first drug to be approved to treat both diabetes and high cholesterol. The affirmative vote from the ACIP on the routine use of GARDASIL in boys and young men, and the FDA approval for ISENTRESS in children age two years and older.

As we told you in November, we continue to focus on advancing the pipeline. Looking ahead, we plan to file five major products in the US between 2012 and 2013 including BRIDION, a first-in-class neuromuscular reversal agent, V503, a vaccine for the prevention of certain HPV associated cancers, odanacatib, a once weekly oral compound with a unique mechanism of action for the treatment of osteoporosis, TREDAPTIVE, our proprietary extended relief niacin plus laropiprant, and suvorexant, on new, first-in-class treatment for patients with insomnia. We also have several important events this year in addition to our regulatory filings, including FDA action on JANUMET XR, completion of the HPS2 thrive study and initiation of Phase III studies for our once weekly DPP4 inhibitor. Last year, we also made progress expanding in key markets around the world through targeted investments. In December, we announced a $1.5 billion R&D initiative in China, including a new Asian headquarters for innovative drug discovery and development located in Beijing.

Overall, our emerging markets represented 18% of our pharmaceutical sales in 2011 and grew 7%. Many of the products that are driving our emerging market growth are products that are off patent in mature markets. Once again, this demonstrates the benefit of Merck's broad portfolio. As we launch and receive reimbursement for newer products in our portfolio, we see additional growth opportunities in the emerging markets. Consumer Care and Animal Health contributed to our full year performance demonstrating that our strategy to extend these complementary businesses creates value.

Animal Health grew 11% this year. Notably, nearly 50% of this growth was from new products. The strength of our portfolio in Animal Health and anticipated launches in companion and production animal products positions us to perform well going forward. Consumer Care grew 1% for the year but was down 5% for the quarter. CLARITIN, our largest consumer brand, remains the market leader despite significant OTC competition. The decline in the quarter is also due in part to a softer fall allergic rhinitis season. We have strong brands that are well positioned in their respective segments.

Turning to cost management. I'd like to reinforce the point that I've made on several previous occasions. Our intense focus on decreasing fixed costs and realizing synergies gives us the flexibility we need to make appropriate investments for growth. This past year, we made the necessary investments while also achieving synergies. In fact, we have largely realized our original synergy target, and as planned are on course to achieve the full target this year. Moving forward, we will continue to make the right investments to operate our business and we continually actively look for growth driving opportunities.

As I've said before, we are very focused on accessing innovation both internally and externally. This includes business development, licensing, and targeted acquisitions that bolster our existing portfolio in therapeutic areas where Merck is a leader or in areas that we are targeting for leadership. In 2011, we signed more than 50 agreements involving a broad array of partners. Once we have funded business operations and made targeted investments for growth, a key priority for us is returning cash to our shareholders. The 11% increase in the dividend payment last month shows the confidence we have in our business and in our pipeline and is a concrete example of our focus on shareholder value.

As we begin 2012 and look ahead, we are optimistic about our underlying business, our current momentum, and the early success of our growth strategy, and we continue to set high expectations for ourselves. New and innovative products are the main driver of value in this industry, so we intend to advance and augment our pipeline. We have a strong late stage pipeline with nearly 20 programs in Phase III and we expect to have many pipeline opportunities between now and 2013, including the five major programs I mentioned earlier. Again, we are committed to delivering strong operational performance this year despite the known challenges such as the US SINGULAIR patent expiration. We intend to maintain our revenues in 2012 at or near 2011 levels. If currency rates stay where they are today, they will put some downward pressure on our revenues, but on a constant currency basis, we are still aiming for revenues at or near the 2011 level. We are also committed to continuing to reduce our cost base in order to deliver a leveraged P&L.

Peter Kellogg will discuss our 2012 guidance in more detail in a few minutes. In closing, we had a good quarter and an overall strong year. As we begin 2012, we are positioning Merck to perform well by advancing our innovative pipeline, meeting the evolving needs of our customers around the world, and achieving a more efficient cost structure, all of which will allow us to deliver shareholder value over the long term. Thank you for your attention. I'd like to now turn the call over to Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP AND PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken, and good morning, everyone. It is a pleasure to speak with you today and to provide you with an overview of Global Human Health results. Let me begin with 2011 full year results where sales grew 5% to $41 billion. This performance demonstrates our strong execution of our three strategic priorities, of growing the core, expanding the core, and accelerating new launches. We consistently delivered growth each quarter and we overcame many external challenges. We contributed nearly $1.5 billion in growth to the top line once you exclude the impact of ForEx and the sales of REMICADE and SIMPONI from the relinquished territories in 2010. We also ended the year with another solid quarter. Human Health sales grew 3% in the quarter or 5% excluding the sales from relinquished territories. Our performance was driven by growth from key inline brands, new launch brands, and important markets such as the US, Japan, and China.

So let me share with you how we did on each of the three parts of our growth strategy. I'll begin with our core business which includes our largest markets and our core brands. In the United States, sales grew 5% and were driven by growth from JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, GARDASIL and VICTRELIS. Overall our solid performance in the US reflects our continued strong execution and our customer focus around our portfolio of innovative brands. Moving to Europe and Canada. Sales in these markets declined 5% in the fourth quarter; however, if you exclude the products relinquished to J & J, sales were flat year over year. This was due to double digit growth from JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, and SIMPONI as well as the launch sales of VICTRELIS. We have a strong portfolio of brands and we're launching products that will enable us to grow volume in the EU, but we continue to anticipate a tough business environment and we estimate a negative mid single digit impact from pricing pressure in 2012.

Now I'd like to discuss the performance of several of our large core brands. I'll start with JANUVIA and JANUMET which continued to have very strong performance growing 40% to $1.3 billion this quarter. Despite multiple competitors in the market, JANUVIA and JANUMET have retained 76% share of the global DPP4 market. The JANUVIA family is Number one in worldwide sales in the oral diabetes market. We are now launching JUVISYNC in the United States and we anticipate hearing from the FDA shortly on JANUMET XR. Adding these brands to the JANUVIA family of products is expected to enable us to maintain a strong leadership position.

Sales of SINGULAIR increased 8% in the quarter. SINGULAIR will lose exclusivity in the United States in August and we expect a significant decline in sales. However, SINGULAIR will retain exclusivity in the EU until February of 2013 and in Japan until 2016. We also expect to see continuing growth for SINGULAIR in many of the emerging markets. Japan and the emerging markets contributed about $1.1 billion to overall SINGULAIR sales in 2011.

ISENTRESS continues to be a strong core brand for Merck and it's a valuable treatment option in the fight against HIV. ISENTRESS grew 24% in the quarter and now has a 14% patient share in the United States. Combined sales of VYTORIN and ZETIA declined 6% in the quarter. ZETIA growth in international markets, most notably Japan, was more than offset by VYTORIN declines in the United States. We announced last week that the FDA has approved an updated label for VYTORIN that includes results from the SHARP study in the clinical trial section.

REMICADE sales in the retained territories, Europe, Russia and Turkey grew 3% in the quarter. While REMICADE's market share remains relatively stable, the market growth this quarter was less than prior quarters. This was due to austerity measure in Europe and in Turkey. We anticipate that these pressures will continue in 2012. SIMPONI remains a strong launch brand and had over $60 million of sales versus $35 million for the same quarter last year in Merck's territories.

Now moving to Vaccines. GARDASIL maintained its strong performance this quarter with 24% growth over the prior year. This was due to continued uptake of the male indication. For ZOSTAVAX, sales for the quarter were $78 million. We are pleased that customer backorders have been filled and we have resumed normal shipping times in the United States. We are building inventory to ensure a stable supply and we are ramping up our promotional efforts for this important vaccine.

Now I'd like to discuss how we're expanding the core. As part of the expanding the core strategy, we continue to make targeted investments in the fastest growing markets, the emerging markets and Japan. In the fourth quarter, emerging markets reached sales of $1.9 billion which were in line with the previous year. If you exclude the sales in the relinquished territories, the emerging markets grew 6% this quarter or 13% if you exclude exchange. China continues to be a key growth driver in emerging markets with approximately 30% growth this quarter. Our growth in 2011 consistently exceeded market growth and we continue to invest significant resources in China.

Japan had another strong quarter. In Japan we had 23% growth or approximately 15% excluding exchange. The performance in Japan was driven by continued strong sales of JANUVIA which is now our number one selling product in Japan. We plan to continue to see growth in the Japanese market with JANUVIA as well as other launch brands including BRIDION, GARDASIL and ROTATEQ.

Now, I'll move to the third part of our strategy, accelerating new launches. We are launching many products around the world which together contributed more than $500 million in revenue this quarter and over $1.1 billion in incremental revenue for the year. The launch of VICTRELIS, SIMPONI, BRIDION, SAPHRIS, DULERA, and JANUVIA in Japan all contribute significantly to our growth this quarter. Now I'd like to give an update on VICTRELIS. Global sales in the fourth quarter were $87 million. In the US, we grew share 10 out of the last 12 weeks. We ended the quarter with approximately 36% TRX share. This is an overall increase of about 10 share points in the quarter.

Internationally, VICTRELIS has now launched in 19 markets, including France, Germany, UK, Canada and Brazil and it maintains a greater than 50% patient share in many of these markets. We continue to believe that a significant opportunity exists for VICTRELIS for the following reasons. First, many treating physicians, about 40% have not yet prescribed either protease inhibitor. Next, we still have a significant opportunity with the VA in the United States, and we are only just beginning many of our international launches.

So in summary, Global Human Health had a strong operational performance throughout 2011. We executed on our growth strategy by growing our core and launch brands and expanding into the fastest growing markets. We believe this momentum positions us well for success in 2012. We know that 2012 will include its share of challenges including continued EU austerity measures, annualization of the transition of REMICADE and SIMPONI in some markets, and a loss of SINGULAIR exclusivity in the United States. However, Merck has a long history of overcoming major patent expiries and we are ready to manage SINGULAIR as well. Our base is strong. It's diverse, and it continues to grow. I believe we can deliver results in 2012 through our key growth drivers such as JANUVIA, ISENTRESS, and other core products, with our launch brands, and with our continued growth in the emerging markets and Japan. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP AND CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam, and good morning. As you heard from Ken, we delivered another high quality quarter by continuing to execute on our strategy to drive top and bottom line performance. And we achieved this performance while continuing to make strategic investments necessary to fuel future growth. The actions we have taken and our performance in 2011 have established a strong foundation for 2012. We leave the year with strong business momentum that will help us succeed in 2012 and beyond. This morning I will briefly talk about our performance in the fourth quarter and full year 2011 and I will discuss our financial targets for 2012, but first let me start with a comment about our capital deployment.

In addition to the operational performance we drove this quarter, we continued to generate cash and execute on our capital allocation strategy. We continued to return a high level of our free cash flow to shareholders in the form of our dividend and share repurchases in 2011. Given our strong operational performance and market conditions, we continued repurchasing our stock during the fourth quarter and our confidence in the future of our business lead us to increase the dividends 11% as of January 9. In total we returned $4.7 billion in dividends and repurchased nearly 58 million shares at a price of $1.9 billion in 2011.

Now let me turn to the operating results. My remarks will focus on our non-GAAP results which exclude acquisition related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. Ken and Adam discussed the revenue performance so let me begin with our expenses. Total operating expenses were about $120 million lower in the fourth quarter despite making growth driving investments. These reductions combined with our top line performance demonstrate the financial discipline we've instilled throughout the Company while maintaining our commitment to growth. On product costs, our cost of goods were nearly $250 million lower this quarter resulting in a non-GAAP product gross margin of 76.5%.

The gross margin was higher on a year over year basis due to product mix and manufacturing efficiencies in addition to a benefit from foreign exchange. Moving on to marketing and administrative, this quarter M&A expenses were $3.6 billion, an increase of about $200 million over the fourth quarter of 2010. This increase was partly due to targeted investments in product launches like VICTRELIS, and in fast growing markets like Japan. The remainder of the increase was mostly due to US healthcare reform fees and other corporate expenses such as legal defense reserves.

Moving on to R&D, this quarter we continued to invest in our most promising opportunities and advance the late stage pipeline as discussed in November. We also made strides to improve our efficiency and incrementally reduce our R&D spending. Research and development expense this quarter was $2.1 billion which is about $100 million lower than the fourth quarter of last year, mainly due to savings from site closures.

Moving to tax. Our non-GAAP tax rate was 19.9% in the fourth quarter bringing our full year non-GAAP tax rate to 23.4%. There was a slight benefit in the fourth quarter from product mix and other items but we still ended the year in the middle of our expected tax range. Our non-GAAP EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.97 per share, up 10% over the same quarter in 2010. Throughout 2011, we consistently delivered top line growth and a leveraged P&L resulting in a non-GAAP EPS of $3.77, an increase of 10% over 2010.

Now let me provide some commentary on our 2012 guidance. As you know, there are two well characterized head winds in 2012. The US SINGULAIR patent expiration in August and the annualization of the J & J settlement. In addition, there are some external factors that affect our revenue guidance as follows. First, we assume mid single digit pricing pressures across Europe as well as from the biannual price reductions in Japan. Second, we assume that we will retain revenue and equity income from the Astra JV for at least half of 2012 although AstraZeneca retains the ultimate decision about this option.

Now, despite these headwinds, the underlying momentum of Merck's business and the growth of our key products enable us to maintain our 2012 revenues at or near 2011 levels on a constant currency basis. However we should talk about ForEx. So far in 2012 the Euro exchange rate as well as most other currencies are well below the level seen throughout most of 2011. At today's exchange rates sales would be adversely affected by about 2% to 3%.

Now let's discuss how the revenues will be spread throughout 2012. Based on the items I just discussed we would expect sales in the first half to be stronger than the second half of the year with the second quarter probably being the strongest quarter and the fourth quarter being the weakest. On R&D expenses we expect to maintain our non-GAAP R&D expenses at about the same level as in 2011 on a full year basis. Now, individual quarters may vary based on the timing of clinical trials and grants, and we continue working to improve the efficiency of our R&D spending. As Ken mentioned we intend to be active in business development to augment our pipeline and maximize our business opportunities. However it is hard to predict which deals may be consummated, their size or their timing, but we will let you know if any deals we complete affect our financial targets. Regarding tax, we expect our 2012 non-GAAP tax rate to be pretty similar to the 2011 rate and have provided a range of 23% to 25% in 2012.

Finally at current exchange rates, we expect our non-GAAP EPS to be between $3.75 and $3.85. As with revenues, we expect the second quarter to be the strongest quarter from an EPS perspective and the fourth quarter the weakest. On a GAAP basis we expect EPS to be between $2.04 and $2.30.

So, to wrap up my comments, 2011 was a very good year. We grew the top line by more than $1 billion. We delivered a leveraged P&L to grow the bottom line even faster. We increased our share repurchase activity and raised the dividend to return more cash to shareholders. And as a result of the underlying momentum that we've established in 2011, the growth of our core products and the promising R&D projects we highlighted in our pipeline, we are optimistic and confident about our outlook for 2012. Thank you. Now, I'd like to turn the call back over to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter. Now we would like to take the time to answer your questions. So in order to help us get through as many callers as possible, I'd ask you to limit yourself to only one or two questions. And note that we won't take any follow-up calls but as always you're welcome to rejoin the queue if you have another question. So with that, Brooke, we're ready to begin the Q & A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

We'll pause for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster. Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much. Good morning. Two brief questions. Number one is Peter, you've made some comments about revenue and earnings for '12 but I'm curious if you could comment a bit about gross margins, I'm making assumptions that you have some modest leverage in order to have some additional earnings per share. But the question really remains about pacing, would it be similar to what you said about Q2 versus Q4 and the weaknesses, I'm making that assumption, but moreover how do you think you might be able to end the calendar year '12 relative to '11? And then the second question is about VICTRELIS, and I'm just curious how Roche may be helping you, if at all, as it relates to the rollout, especially in the 19 regions outside the US. Thanks very much.

ALEX KELLY: Peter you want to start?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure. So Tony, thanks, good morning. So as you know, we haven't given guidance on PGM, but I think the one thing I would say is that in general, PGM follows our revenue performance with obviously adjusting for product mix and manufacturing productivity and so forth so I don't think there's any big story. However I would highlight that as you know, SINGULAIR goes off patent over the summer and so as you go from there on, that will be a slight shift in mix, clearly as SINGULAIR becomes a much smaller part of our mix and that's a good PGM product. But in general we haven't given guidance so I can't give you the details on that.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Tony with regard to VICTRELIS, the good news is that we do have a agreement with Roche that is worldwide wherever we're able to do it legally in any part of the world and in those markets they are detailing VICTRELIS and doing education with physicians and so forth. So the partnership is going well and I think that they've been able to help us in all markets around the world where we're legally able to do it.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Oh, thanks for the question. So Peter, I'm just wondering, again when I kind of look at the numbers we've got about I'm guessing $500 million still in there from AZLP. Can you just help us understand what kind of a profit contribution that might represent as we go from the first half of the year to the second half? And then maybe for Adam, thanks for the details on SINGULAIR, particularly OUS and in the emerging markets but can you give us a sense of the growth rates that we were seeing in Japan in the emerging markets with SINGULAIR, and then also, when we expect the patent to come off in Japan. Thanks a lot.

ALEX KELLY: Peter, do you want to start?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure, so good morning, Seamus. So an the AZLP, the joint venture, I don't really give the detailed P&L for AZLP, the relationship, but obviously there's two parts, there's revenue and there's equity income and really you think of the equity income as going straight down. That's really income going right through and then the revenue is just product sales so it's pretty good margin, and again, I think that you've got it right. We've assumed that we'll get a little over half of the year this year but obviously that's just an assumption and we're pretty clear about that so it's up to, AstraZeneca will make that decision on their own.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Adam?

ADAM SCHECHTER: And Seamus, with regard to the patent expiration of SINGULAIR in Japan it's 2016 but it's also important to note that in Japan, even after products go off patent there's typically room for them to continue to do well, and if you look, Japan remains a very important growth driver for us this year but as we move into the future. We don't give specific product information for the emerging markets. We do give it for outside the US, but I would be careful because that includes Europe. If you look at the emerging markets and Japan, I would say that we're showing good growth for SINGULAIR and we expect to continue to have good growth moving forward.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please?

OPERATOR: Greg Gilbert, with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

GREG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. First on Hep-C. Curious whether you're seeing warehousing behavior given some recent developments in the space from an R&D standpoint and what's the likelihood Merck is open to making an acquisition in the HCV space soon and how would you balance strategic desire and financial discipline that front. Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Ken, you want to start?

KEN FRAZIER: Let me start by trying to address how we look at the overall Hep-C opportunity that we have in front of us and our strategy. First we've tried to say very clearly that we are taking steps to maximize our VICTRELIS opportunity and we're pleased with the growth that we see in the US as well as outside the United States. And beyond that, we're also aggressively pursuing new and more convenient interferon free therapies focusing on MK-5172, our pan-genotypic protease inhibitor. Beyond that, I think what I would say is looking to expand on that, we would continue to look at this marketplace to try to find opportunities to create shareholder value creating partnerships or acquisitions, but we are going to always maintain financial discipline in this area as we have in every other area. And just going back to MK-5172. We see a number of opportunities with that drug because we think it can in fact be a very strong anchor for an all oral therapy so we intend to study that drug with other drugs in our own pipeline that are at early stages. We're also again interested in partnering to study with other drugs in the hope of developing an all oral regimen that maximizes SVR and shortens duration of therapy and minimizes side effects. And if we are not able to reach the kind of partnership or accommodation and someone else reaches the market first we don't think the game is over. We'll study MK-5172 with whatever drugs make it to the market to see if we can improve on the regimen. So we have a number of approaches but at the end of the day I want to just underscore that Merck has always tried to be financially disciplined in doing any kind of deal or arrangement and will remain so in Hep-C.

PETER KELLOGG: Then with regard to your question on warehousing, the first thing I'd say is typically, there's a slowdown of new patients that occurs during the holidays, Thanksgiving and the end of the year holidays, and we think we saw that this year as well. With VICTRELIS, because of the four week lead in, you would expect that to be extended a little bit into the beginning part of January. I think the key is that if you look at a product like VICTRELIS, it can help double the cure rate today and physicians understand that and they're still working through the patients that they've warehoused waiting for a product like VICTRELIS. At this point we're not hearing of significant warehousing. There may be some people that say it anecdotally but it may occur later, but right now, we don't think it's a significant impact.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Peter, just a guidance question. I'm a little bit confused because you talk about revenues being negatively affected by 2% to 3% if exchange stays where it is today but guidance of $3.75 to $3.85 is also based on the current exchange rate. Can you just clarify that for me? And if you were to assume that the Euro stays where it is today, should we assume then that the low end of the range is more realistic given that a 2% to 3% negative impact on the top line would take your revenues down to about $46.5 billion? Thanks.

PETER KELLOGG: Good morning, Jami. Thanks for the question, so everything you said by the way, leading into the question is correct. You've got it all, that's absolutely right. And the EPS we gave a range of $0.10 so that we can adopt, we can fit in that range with a lot of different factors, one of which is foreign exchange obviously but many other things that could be going on in the business. So I think it's not a bad assumption to think that perhaps the current exchange rate is a little bit lower than the range or not, but quite frankly there are quite a few factors that move our EPS one way or the other. So I wouldn't, even though in the guidance we pointed to ForEx to help you understand some of the moving parts, there's many different moving parts in the business, launches, competitive activity and so forth. And so likewise, we're -- very often we exceed our expectations in our own execution of the business. So I think that at this early point in the year, I think the 10 point range, I would think of it as the full range and it's hard to pin it down to any one factor if that's okay.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. I wanted to ask you guys about the DPP4 category. I guess Adam, is there any reason why it can't double in the next five years with or without a positive outcome study from JANUVIA and then on ZOSTAVAX, now that the manufacturing issues are resolved, what are you doing differently or incrementally on promotion in the US or outside the US and do you think we'll see 2012 as an inflection point on sales or will it take longer?

ALEX KELLY: Adam?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So the DPP4 category, it continues to show impressive growth and I think it will continue to show impressive growth. It's still only about 20% of patients are treated with DPP4 inhibitors. With that said, many patients in this market takes multiple medications and on average they are on somewhere between 1.8 and 2.4 medicines for diabetic patient and as disease progresses they end up on more medications, but the bottom line is we expect the DPP4 class to continue to show strong growth moving forward.

KEN FRAZIER: And we also are very excited about the once weekly DPP4 that we have in Phase II and looking forward to going into Phase III, we think that can be a tremendous contributor both on the convenience side as well, which is important by the way when you have issues around diabetics who sometimes are not as compliant as other people could be, we think that's a really useful thing for us to do and we think that's a great opportunity for us too.

ADAM SCHECHTER: With regard to ZOSTAVAX, before we started significant promotion in the United States, we wanted to make sure that we had supply and that we would be able to have continuous supply. We will begin increasing our promotional support through personal promotion and also non-personal promotion very significantly as we move through this year. With regard to outside the US, we've made significant progress in the existing facilities. We expect both products to be available out of our new manufacturing plant in Durham in late 2012 or early 2013 and that will allow us to make the product more broadly available internationally.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you. I know you'll probably resist talking about Merck's financials beyond 2012 but can you at least say whether 2013 earnings are likely to be higher than 2012 or will the SINGULAIR patent expiry spill over into '13 and compress performance? And second question is on IMPROVE-IT and the upcoming interim look, how will you be informing investors once its occurred or has it already occurred? Quite a few investors seem nervous that this trial is going to blow up VYTORIN further and I'm wondering if you can give us some idea of how you're thinking about the different potential outcomes and whether the trial might have a better chance of successfully showing what it was intended to show than what some are expecting.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Peter, want to take this?

PETER KELLOGG: Yes, sure, good morning, Tim. So you're right. We haven't given 2013 guidance. I think the one thing I would just take away from the 2012 guidance that we talked about today is really every company has years in which they have an patent expiry or some sort of impact like that and really the secret or the trick to this is to make sure that your underlying business momentum is strong. So that when you end up having the one impact of a patent expiry the rest of your business is really growing nicely. And obviously, we've highlighted kind of how we see 2012 and how we've come through '11 with great momentum. And so as we go into '13 it's going to be all about the growth of the underlying business, how well the key products do, how well our emerging markets do, the different pieces of what we're talking about so we really haven't given guidance. But that is clearly the answer is you go through '12 you can watch our underlying business performance and you can pretty much gauge is that strong enough to overcome the impact of a patent expiry. For '12 it certainly was.

KEN FRAZIER: I'll just add that from the very beginning we've been very clear about the profile of the Company that we would like to be and that involves driving top line growth and making prudent investments to ensure that we do have top line growth but growing the bottom line faster through a leveraged P&L and that's still very much our intent and our ambition as we go through '12 and into the future.

ALEX KELLY: And Tim, on the IMPROVE-IT trial, you're right. We do have the 75% interim look as planned for later this quarter. Obviously if the trial goes to completion that's more like a 2013 completion period. And if there are any changes in the trial as a result of the interim look, we would communicate that pretty promptly. If there are no changes we would probably try to find the right communication vehicle for that information as well. So with that we'll take the next question.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions. First question has to do with the five assets, Ken, that you'd mentioned and outlined. Two of those assets you currently sell in ex-US markets, BRIDION and TREDAPTIVE. Can you give any color on the performance or revenues for those two assets in ex-US and why you think, or why we might be missing why those assets, at least you believe, are significant or material assets for you going forward? And then a question for Adam. The $500 million on the accelerating new launches, VICTRELIS, DULERA account for a little over $100 million of that. Can you give some granularity on what else is contributing to the $500 million of the incremental revenue on the new launches? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: I'll start on the two launch brands, BRIDION and TREDAPTIVE. First of all BRIDION we think has a terrific profile and it can be very useful in helping people in the post-operative setting. We've seen in Japan for example, pretty strong uptake. We are hoping that we can get this drug approved in the US, and we really think it has a unique positioning because of its value and its innovation. I think on TREDAPTIVE, going forward a lot of that will have to do with the outcome of HPS2 THRIVE and we think if we can launch this drug in the United States, and in fact we launch it outside United States accompanied by these kinds of outcomes, we think it can be a very significant contributor, but I'll turn it over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: The other things I would add is that if you look at TREDAPTIVE, the sales are not significant outside of the US, but niacin sales have never been significant outside of the US. I believe that once we have outcomes data that shows on top of a statin you can get additional cardiovascular benefit which is the hope of the HPS2 THRIVE study that would increase the utilization not only for the United States but also outside of the United States. With regard to new product launches, SIMPONI in the retained markets, BRIDION in Japan, which continues to do very, very well, had $60 million of sales in the quarter, VICTRELIS which had $87 million in the quarter as well as SAPHRIS and DULERA are primary drivers of our global launches to the $500 million that I talked about. In addition to that, we have JANUVIA in Japan which continues to be large and fast growing, REMERON in Japan and we have GARDASIL that's just launching in Japan, so those are the product launches that are driving the majority of the dollars I talked about.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please?

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI: Hi guys, I really appreciate you taking my questions. Number one, if I could maybe push you a little bit on a prior question, I think we got a partial answer but perhaps not a complete answer and that is Adam, what might the commercial impact be roughly speaking if IMPROVE-IT were to actually show an outcomes benefit that was unambiguous? And then number two, Pfizer made some comments on their call several days ago that emerging market trends were actually below their expectations in terms of price reductions and secondarily volume, and I was just wondering in general, are you seeing the same things or are you seeing something different? Thanks a lot.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Adam would you like to start this?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, so let me start with the commercial impact of IMPROVE-IT. Obviously, we are expecting that the IMPROVE-IT trial show benefit for VYTORIN. And I think that it will reinforce what many physicians believe which is the LDL cholesterol hypothesis, which says that as you lower LDL cholesterol more and you get patients to their goal, the better the outcomes and the better the benefit. So I think that it will prove to be something that physicians believe inherently anyway. With that said we would have significant promotional support and we put even additional emphasis behind the outcomes and I think that there would be a positive impact, assuming that the trial is positive as you stated, and that's what our assumption is. So we hope to have that data as soon as possible and once we do, once it's positive, we'll promote it very strongly and there will be an impact positively from it.

With regard to emerging markets we're pleased with our performance in the emerging markets. We are investing significantly where it makes sense to invest and we believe there will continue to be significant growth. I've said before that in the emerging markets there's always ups and downs and you can't look at any one country as representative of all of the emerging markets, so for example, in Turkey, there's significant pricing pressure at the end of last year and going into this year and in many of the markets there's pricing pressure that I believe will continue. The good news is that we have a very broad portfolio of products and if you look at what we've been able to do it's to grow 13% ex-ForEx and when you account for the relinquished territories of REMICADE and SIMPONI, I believe we've been able to offset the pricing pressures that we've been under, which will continue by our increases in volume.

And we launched a campaign which I spoke about before called the Next 10 Brands. what we're doing is we're focusing on not only the brands that you typically think about, the brands that we talk about often but we're go down to the next 10 and the next 10 after that and in some of these markets we have 130 products that are available to us and we have to find ways to maximize each and every one of those products and the opportunities that exist. So I believe there still remains significant opportunity in emerging markets. It will continue to be a difficult environment. There's no doubt about that. There will be pricing pressure that will continue but I believe that we can be successful with our products and with our volume. And the last thing I'll say is if you look at China, 28% growth in the fourth quarter, if you look at our volume growth, our evolution index is well over 120 in terms of volume in China and we're growing significantly faster than the market, so that's the type of performance we expect to continue in Global Human Health for Merck.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen and Company.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. I have two questions. First, I don't recall Merck providing revenue and EPS guidance on a constant currency basis in the past. Is this the first time? If so, why is there a change in practice and will it be continued? Secondly, will HPS2 THRIVE be presented at the AHA? I know this is hair splitting but in November, I thought Merck said that HPS2 THRIVE was expected to end in 2012 and I thought today it was said it would end, so it appears something has changed and I'm wondering if that moves that presentation as well, thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Peter you want to start with the first comment?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure, thanks, Steve and good morning. So no, there's no change in policy or approach whatever, but I think what's happened is you've all seen obviously in the fourth quarter is the exchange rates have moved around a lot and none of us can actually sit here and forecast ForEx that well, so all we want to do is highlight to everybody that in fact at last year ForEx rates, there's one level of performance but with the current ForEx rates that's what we've worked with or that's the impact we would see. But importantly, Steve, just to make sure it's clear we only talked about that at revenue so at EPS, we have given you the EPS range at the current rates so really I don't think there's any change in policy at all. We're just trying to help investors understand how ForEx impacts the numbers.

KEN FRAZIER: Just as a revenue matter, our goal is to try to be at or near our 2011 levels on revenue, notwithstanding the clear headwinds of SINGULAIR and other patent expiries on an operating basis. And what we are really trying to say and what we said back in November is that's what we intended to do is to be essentially level with 2011 on an operating basis, and I think we're clarifying that as that gets translated into dollars, obviously there's some impact of foreign exchange.

ALEX KELLY: And Steve Scala, on your HPS2 THRIVE question for TREDAPTIVE, the trial itself is expected to end this year. It's unclear at this point if it will end in time to have data presented at the American Heart Association meeting later this year but our intent is certainly to have this drug filed in 2013. So with that we'll take the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, Peter. You gave us a sense of fourth quarter '10 to fourth quarter '11, you went through some of the changes and the big deltas. Can you talk about SG&A in 2012 versus 2011 and kind of go through the key deltas there and tell us how much FX plays into SG&A. Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Peter?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure. So I think what you'll see in SG&A for 2011 is that we did have a number of different things going on obviously in addition to just the commercial activity. I think people often think of SG&A as just the Adam's promotion and selling resources but obviously we have all of our corporate costs, legal fees and other things that go through there. So in 2011, there was an increase overall in non-GAAP marketing and administrative for the full year and part of that was launch investments, investments in fast growing markets like Japan and we talked about those too. Of course as you all know, healthcare reform came in so there was some fees that were increased. All three of those factors were equal amounts, roughly in the neighborhood, and then of course we had some other corporate expenses that come along and they're hard to always predict so some of them may have been legal defense reserves for different situations we're dealing with or other kinds of items. So those are the main drivers for this year, for 2011. For 2012, you've seen we've done a lot of restructuring announcements during the year, this year as well, 2011, and obviously we've known exactly what 2012 would look like so I think we've planned very carefully what, how to manage the year. A lot of the announcements we've done this year will give us a full year benefit in all parts of the Company for 2012 so I think that will help us on SG&A, and I think that we're well prepared for exactly how to work through a year like 2012 and 2013. Adam I don't know if you want to add any other comments or Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: I'll just say again I just want to reaffirm our goal is to have a leveraged P&L and you're seeing some positive impact on this in terms of foreign exchange, but we don't expect to see a significant increase in promotion and selling dollars next year. We're continuing to work through our synergies to create the kind of operating model that will allow us to succeed in this kind of marketplace going forward.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, I think we have time for two more callers so last two questions please, or last two callers?

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Question was on VYTORIN. Just be interested the type of impact you're expecting for the product from generic Lipitor as we go through 2012, and specifically, are you kind of seeing or feeling any incremental managed care pressures on VYTORIN given the generic? And then second, a broader question on the R&D budget. Merck's currently running a significant number of large outcome studies. I guess is this type of outcome study investment, particularly the number of studies you're running, kind of a normalized number for Merck and should we expect as some of these studies wrap up over the next couple years they're going to be replaced by other programs or should we think about the outcome study investment and the number of trials you're running as something that could be declining over time. Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Adam?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So let me start off with VYTORIN and impact of Lipitor. We've been focusing our promotion of VYTORIN on the severely hypercholesterolemic patients, in general, the patient that has cholesterol levels that can't get to goal on a statin alone or would have to be titrated to a very, very high level of a statin prior to treatment. So I think that the positioning that we've been focusing on for the past couple years should help us because even if a physician were to use generic Lipitor they probably would not be able to get that patient to goal and they would need to look at something else. Therefore they would either be able to switch to something like VYTORIN or they could think about adding ZETIA and we believe that ZETIA in the marketplace will continue to do well. As more patients move to the generic statins, they will be harder to get some of those patients to goal, and therefore, they will have options to either move to VYTORIN or to add ZETIA. We are increasing our promotional effort behind ZETIA. We think that there is an opportunity for ZETIA in the marketplace particularly with generic Lipitor. We have not seen any impact on ZETIA since the launch of Lipitor generic but we'll be watching that closely and it's too early to see any impact on VYTORIN as well. But we believe that this franchise can continue to do well throughout the launch of the generic.

KEN FRAZIER: And on the R&D spend, Chris, I think we've tried to say all along that what we spend in a particular time is really a function of the assets that are moving through the pipeline at that time. Right now, we seem to be right now experiencing a bolus of big trials right now and we also believe that these kinds of large trials, while they do cost a lot, can help differentiate these products when they come to the market.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, we're up for the last caller, please.

OPERATOR: Michael Tong, Wells Fargo securities.

MICHAEL TONG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Hi, good morning. Two questions. Number one, just follow-up on the IMPROVE-IT studies and I assume you guys are all risk managers here. What if IMPROVE-IT shows no benefit or maybe, under the worst case scenario, some directionally very ambiguous results, what's your strategy on the VYTORIN franchise ex-US as well as within the US at that point? And then secondly, can you comment on what you're seeing in terms of patient enrollment for anacetrapib?

ALEX KELLY: Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: So on the IMPROVE-IT question I'd just reiterate that we're very confident in the value of ezetimibe and we're also confident in what we see in every study which is that lowering LDL seems to have a positive benefit. I think the SHARP study was another indication that lowering LDL in that particular population seems to have had a benefit. So we continue to be confident that IMPROVE-IT will be a positive outcome study for us. Without getting into detail, we obviously look at a range of scenarios all the time in trying to run the business and that's what we're trying to do.

ALEX KELLY: And in terms of anacetrapib, that started enrolling patients in May 2011 and remember, it's a 30,000 patient trial and we're right on track with our enrollment right now. So with that, Ken I don't know if you had any closing remarks?

KEN FRAZIER: Well just briefly. I want to thank you all again for attending and listening and for all your excellent questions today. So to wrap up, 2011 was a very good year in which we grew the top line by more than $1 billion, we delivered a leveraged P&L to grow the bottom line even faster than the top line, and we increased our share repurchase activity and raised the dividend to return more cash to shareholders. Thank you very much for your listening today and we look forward to seeing you down the road. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes the Merck fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc. | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120216e8220025u
  


 HD
 Q3  2011  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,216 words
   PD
28 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's third-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Alex Kelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

ALEX KELLY, SVP IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Brooke, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to Merck's 2011 third-quarter conference call. Before I turn the call over to Ken this morning, I want to mention just a few housekeeping items. First, as a reminder we are hosting our R&D and business briefing in less than two weeks on November 10. At the briefing we will discuss our pipeline and we will also spend time discussing the Company's strategy.

As a result we are going to limit the content of today's call to a discussion of the business in the third quarter, and we will also limit the call to 45 minutes because we know we will have ample time on November 10 for further discussions about the business; and we will look forward to seeing all of you then.

The second thing I would like to mention is that there are a number of items in the GAAP results such as acquisition related charges, restructuring costs, and a gain resulting from our sale of our interest in our Consumer joint venture. We have excluded those items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables in the press release and also in Table 2, so that that will give you a better sense of the underlying performance in the business.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs of management and are subject to significant risk and uncertainties. Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2010 10-K, identify risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we make today.

Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement. Our SEC filings can be found on our website at Merck.com.

This morning, I'm joined by Ken Frazier, our Chief Executive Officer and President; Adam Schechter, the President of Global Human Health; and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now I would like to introduce Ken Frazier.

KEN FRAZIER, PRESIDENT, CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex. Good morning, everyone. Thank you all for joining the call today.

As Alex just, said since our business briefing will take place in two weeks I am going to be fairly brief in my remarks. We look forward to providing you an in-depth view of our pipeline as well as the progress we're making in executing our growth strategy at that time. For today I will simply provide a synopsis of the third quarter and our accomplishments year to date, and then invite Adam Schechter and Peter Kellogg to provide additional context.

I'm pleased to report that we had another good quarter. We coupled top-line growth with strong expense management to yield an 11% increase in non-GAAP EPS. In addition, this quarter we were very active in repurchasing our shares. At this point, three quarters through 2011, I can report that we are successfully delivering on our stated intent to grow both the top line and the bottom line, maintaining the consistent execution we have seen all year.

While we transitioned rights to REMICADE and SIMPONI in certain countries this quarter, we were still able to drive 8% year-over-year growth in our overall business. If one excludes these territories from our history, total Company sales on a comparative basis would have grown 10%, or 5% ex-exchange.

This quarter's results were in large part driven by the strength of our in-line portfolio, with double-digit growth from JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, SINGULAIR, GARDASIL, and ZOSTAVAX. This strong underlying growth across our product portfolio is why we continue to make selective investments behind our key in-line products, key launches such as VICTRELIS, geographic growth in Japan and the key emerging markets, and lifecycle management for our key brands, all while we move towards the SINGULAIR patent expiry in August 2012. Adam will speak about our product performance in more depth in a few minutes.

Merck Consumer Care grew 3% for the quarter. And as we announced we divested Merck's interest in the Johnson & Johnson Merck Pharmaceuticals joint venture. This gives Merck's greater strategic freedom in the OTC consumer environment.

In addition, we saw strong growth from our Animal Health business in the third quarter, which grew 20%. In late August, we announced that Rick DeLuca will serve as the new President for our Animal Health division. I would like to acknowledge the contributions of Raul Kohan, who is retiring after many years of distinguished service to our Company.

Rick and Raul are working closely together to ensure a smooth transition for our business and customers. We believe that Rick's extensive experience in Animal Health will help us continue to drive growth in this important component of Merck's portfolio.

Overall, we are continuing our efforts to better adapt Merck to the evolving conditions of the external landscape. We are making progress on a number of fronts.

We are continuing to transform our commercial model to better meet the needs of each customer segment and win in the marketplace. We are continuing to change our operating model for R&D, with a strong focus on improving ROI.

We are looking very actively at licensing and partnership opportunities to augment our pipeline and drive sustainable and profitable revenue growth across Human Health, Consumer Care, and Animal Health. And we continue to focus on maximizing our productivity by reducing costs, shifting from a fixed to more flexible cost base wherever possible, and reallocating our resources to the best growth opportunities.

While doing all of this, we are focused on returning cash to shareholders. Peter Kellogg will speak more about this in a few minutes.

Our third-quarter results reflect our focus and execution across all these fronts. The combination of our product performance and our expense management allows us to maintain our 2011 non-GAAP EPS guidance, but narrow the range to $3.72 to $3.76.

In addition, to maximizing our portfolio and building our diversified businesses, our growth strategy also includes delivering on the pipeline. In the third quarter, we continued to advance our pipeline, including the VICTRELIS launch in the EU; the GARDASIL launch in Japan; and filing a New Drug Application for both the US and EU for our investigational oral mTOR inhibitor for patients with sarcoma.

And earlier this month we received FDA approval for JUVISYNC, the combination of JANUVIA plus simvastatin. This was the first FDA approval of a combination therapy for diabetic patients with high cholesterol and is another example of Merck's renewed focus on lifecycle management.

As you are all aware, we are operating in a dynamic global environment, from austerity measures in Europe to healthcare reform in the United States. We are actively engaged and our monitoring developments so that we are able to adapt our business accordingly.

Overall, we believe that innovation will continue to be valued in the marketplace. And therefore innovation remains the centerpiece of our growth strategy. We will have more to say about our approach to innovation, the Merck pipeline, and what we are doing to improve R&D productivity in two weeks at our November 10 business briefing.

Finally, there were two business development highlights worth noting during the third quarter, including an agreement with Serum Institute of India Limited to develop and commercialize a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for use in the emerging and developing world countries, and a collaboration with China-based BGI, the world's largest genomics center, to focus on the discovery and development of biomarkers and genomic technologies across a wide range of therapeutic areas.

Let me close by saying that this year's three consecutive quarters of top-line and bottom-line growth demonstrate our ability to execute and deliver on a consistent basis. We remain fully committed going forward to executing our growth strategy, driving innovation, and delivering value to our customers and our shareholders. Thank you, and with that I would like to turn the call over to Adam Schechter.

ADAM SCHECHTER, EVP, PRESIDENT GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken, and good morning, everyone. It's a pleasure to speak with you today and provide you with an overview of the performance of Global Human Health. GHH had another solid quarter, with revenue growth of 9% including the impact of foreign exchange.

Our performance was driven by growth in the US, Japan, and the emerging markets. The solid performance for GHH was achieved despite the loss of REMICADE and SIMPONI sales in certain territories beginning this quarter. If you were to exclude sales from the relinquished territories in 2010, Global Human Health sales grew by 11%, or 6% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.

This equates to about $500 million of operational growth this quarter, and it reinforces that our focus on the strategic priorities of growing the core, expanding the core, and accelerating new launches is working. So let me share with you how we did on each of the three parts of our strategy.

First let me focus on our core business, which includes several of our largest markets. In the United States, sales grew 6% and were driven by double-digit growth from JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, and vaccines, which had strong contributions from GARDASIL, ZOSTAVAX, and a $25 million CDC stockpile replenishment for RotaTeq. Growth in the United States was partially offset by lower sales of VYTORIN. Overall, our solid performance in the US reflects our continued strong execution and customer focus around our full portfolio of innovative brands.

So moving to Europe and Canada, these markets grew 6% due to the impact of foreign exchange. Double-digit growth of JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, REMICADE, and SIMPONI in retained territories was offset by over $200 million due to several factors. These factors include the unfavorable impact from EU austerity measures, the loss of REMICADE in Canada, and the return of CAELYX rights to J&J. Despite the difficult business environment in Europe, we believe opportunities to launch new products that meet unmet medical needs still remains.

Moving on to other areas of growing the core, there are several brands with very strong performance I want to highlight. I will start with JANUVIA and JANUMET, which continue to perform well and demonstrate a strong growth of 41% to $1.2 billion in the quarter.

With five years on the market, the JANUVIA and JANUMET brands now have about 27% market share. The strong clinical profile of JANUVIA and JANUMET is a key driver for continued strong DP IV Class leadership and growth for the brands.

In addition, we recently received approval for JUVISYNC in the United States, a fixed-dose combination with the glucose lowering of JANUVIA and the cholesterol lowering of ZOCOR in one tablet. We believe this unique offering provides further differentiation of a sitagliptin family of products, and it will enable us to maintain our strong leadership position in a DP IV Class.

Moving to immunology, REMICADE and SIMPONI continued to demonstrate very strong performance. Sales in the retained territories, Europe, Russia, and Turkey, grew 35% in the quarter. REMICADE's sales grew 25%, and SIMPONI remains a strong launch brand with $75 million of sales versus $25 million for the same quarter last year.

In our cholesterol franchise, combined sales of VYTORIN and ZETIA grew 3% as sales growth in the international markets offset declines of VYTORIN in the United States. The international performance was driven by growth in all regions including Europe, Japan, and the emerging markets.

I would also like to provide an update on the strong performance of GARDASIL, which grew 41% this quarter to $445 million. The growth was driven by continued success and uptake of the male indication and the strong back-to-school season. Sales also benefited from roughly $50 million of wholesaler inventory purchases in conjunction with the recent launch in Japan.

We are pleased with the expanded ACIP recommendation received this week for routine vaccination of boys, and we are moving ahead to communicate this new recommendation.

Now I would like to discuss how we are expanding the core. As part of the expanding-the-core strategy, we are making investments to grow our business in the fastest-growing markets -- the emerging markets and Japan. In the third quarter emerging market sales grew to $1.8 billion.

Growth was driven by the top six markets and was achieved despite the loss of REMICADE and SIMPONI in the relinquished territories. If you exclude the sales in the relinquished territories, the emerging markets grew 15%, or 10% excluding the benefit of exchange.

A key growth driver continues to be China, which grew approximately 50% year over year. We expect sales in China to grow over 30% for the full year in 2011 versus 2010. Our growth in China in 2011 has consistently exceeded market growth and we continue to invest significant resources in China. We're also expanding the core by investing in Japan which grew 30% to $1.1 billion in the quarter, or approximately 20% excluding exchange. The performance in Japan was driven by the strong in-line franchises and from the sales of new launch brands such as JANUVIA, GARDASIL, and BRIDION, as well as favorable foreign exchange. As I mentioned previously, GARDASIL is now available in Japan and we look forward to a successful launch in this key market. Moving to the last part of my discussion -- accelerating new launches. We now have over 15 products launching around the world which together contributed more than $450 million in revenue this quarter. We are well on our way to achieve over $1 billion in incremental revenue from these launches in 2011. For example, the launch of SIMPONI in the EU continues to progress well.

We are launching GARDASIL and JANUVIA in Japan. And we continue to see increases in share and volume for DULERA and SAPHRIS in the US.

Now I would like to turn specifically to VICTRELIS. Global sales in the third quarter were $31 million. Sales were adversely affected by declines in US wholesaler inventory levels following the launch last quarter. Inventory levels are now consistent with demand.

There are several things that make us optimistic about the future performance of VICTRELIS. IMS reports a current TRx share of about 25%. We have seen TRx share grow in seven out of the last 10 weeks. In addition, TRx volume has shown strong growth of about 30% in the rolling four weeks. Given the VICTRELIS duration of therapy, we expect dollar share to more closely match patient share and build over time.

VICTRELIS was the only HCV protease inhibitor added to the VA formulary. With 130,000 hepatitis C patients, the VA is the largest single provider of services to hepatitis C patients in the United States. We are seeing orders from the VA increase already in the fourth quarter and believe this represents a significant and a profitable opportunity. It is important to note that the VA sales are not captured in the IMS market share data.

In addition, most treating physicians have not yet prescribed either protease inhibitor. So we believe that significant growth opportunity exists.

Lastly, VICTRELIS is now available in Brazil, Canada, and major markets in the EU. We have received reimbursement in many of these markets. The VICTRELIS launches are only just beginning and we look forward to updating you about our continued progress in the future.

In summary, GHH had another strong quarter. It is clear that our focus is on driving top-line revenue growth, and we did that again this quarter. We will continue to execute on our growth strategy, and I look forward to discussing that strategy in more depth with you in November 10.

Now I would like to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam, and good morning, everybody. As you heard from Ken, we continue to execute on our strategy. This quarter we had strong top- and bottom-line performance, and we achieved this performance while continuing to make strategic investments necessary to fuel future growth.

Based on our performance through September we are once again raising the lower end of our 2011 non-GAAP EPS range, which also increases the midpoint of the range. Now, my remarks today will focus on our non-GAAP results, which exclude acquisition-related charges, restructuring charges, and a gain resulting from the decision to sell our interest in the J&J Merck Consumer joint venture.

Now let's get into the results, starting with revenue. Total revenue for the quarter was $12 billion, 8% above a year ago, which includes a 5% benefit from foreign exchange. Excluding this benefit, revenue grew 3% over the prior year.

As you know, we relinquished REMICADE and SIMPONI in certain territories as of July 1. This masked the strength of our underlying performance in the third quarter.

As Ken mentioned, if you exclude the relinquished territories from last years' sales, total Company sales in the third quarter would have grown 10% on a reported basis, or 5% excluding exchange.

Now let's talk about expenses, starting with product costs. Our non-GAAP product gross margin was 75.3% in the quarter. The gross margin was sequentially lower than the second quarter due to the J&J settlement which became effective July 1.

As a result of the settlement, the profit split on our sales of REMICADE and SIMPONI moved from 58-42 favoring Merck to a 50-50 split. This was the biggest driver of the sequential gross margin movement.

Moving onto M&A, marketing and administrative expenses of $3.3 billion were up about $250 million over the third quarter of last year. On our last earnings call we highlighted that there were four factors that continue to drive year-over-year increases in the M&A line.

First, and largest, foreign exchange; second, emerging market investments; third, launch investments; and finally, healthcare reform excise fees. In total, these four factors added more than $300 million to marketing and admin expenses in the third quarter.

As Adam mentioned, in the fourth quarter we expect to continue making targeted investments to drive new product launches such as VICTRELIS, JUVISYNC, and GARDASIL in Japan. We also anticipate making additional investments in the emerging markets.

Moving on to R&D, we continued to invest in our most promising opportunities and advance the late-stage pipeline while making real strides to improve our efficiency and incrementally reduce our R&D spending. Research and development expense this quarter was $1.9 billion and was in line with the first two quarters of 2011, but slightly below the third quarter of last year. The year-over-year decline was due to savings from site closures in 2010 and some lower clinical trial grant expenses.

Given the results of the first nine months, we now expect that R&D expense will be in the range of $7.8 billion to $8 billion on a full-year basis. But keep in mind we tend to have a higher level of R&D spending in the fourth quarter due to the timing of clinical trial grants.

Moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 23.7% in the third quarter, which was higher year-over-year due to product and geographic mix. We have maintained our 2011 non-GAAP tax rate guidance in the range of 23% to 24%; but given the tax rate in the first nine months of 2011 we now expect the full-year rate to be at the high end of that range.

Non-GAAP EPS for the third quarter was $0.94 per share, up 11% over the same quarter in 2010. Based on the strong year-to-date performance our 2011 non-GAAP EPS range is now $3.72 to $3.76. Our new 2011 GAAP EPS target range is $2.03 to $2.20.

In addition to the fine operational performance we drove this quarter, we continue to generate cash and execute on our capital allocation strategy. Given our strong operational performance in 2011 and the weakness in the global equity markets, we saw an opportunity to be an aggressive buyer of our stock during the third quarter. As a result, we continue to return a high level of our operating cash flow to shareholders in the form of our dividend and share repurchases.

This quarter we returned $1.2 billion in dividends and repurchased 32 million shares at a price of $1 billion. Through September we have returned almost $5 billion to shareholders through the dividend and share repurchases.

To wrap up my comments, this was a very good quarter, characterized by continued operational sales growth and cost efficiencies which enabled us to fund strategic investments in new product launches and emerging markets, and still grow non-GAAP EPS by 11%. At the same time, we returned more than $2 billion to shareholders this quarter.

So we anticipate that 2011 will end up as a strong year on both top- and bottom-line performance. We are focused on continuing this good performance in the fourth quarter, and we look forward to providing our 2012 guidance in conjunction with our fourth-quarter earnings call.

Thank you. Now I will turn the call back to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Great. Thanks, Peter. Now we're ready to open up the call to answer your questions. So in order to help us get through as many callers as possible we ask you to please limit yourself to one or two questions. We won't take any follow-up questions, but you are welcome to get back in the queue if you have additional questions. So, Brooke, we are ready for the Q&A, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks very much and congrats on the quarter. Just two questions here. First on ZOSTA, appreciate an update there. You have had two straight quarters of $100-million-plus sales. Are we getting back to normalized production levels? And maybe just looking forward, when can we expect to get back to fully normalized levels here and consistent product shipment?

Second is on the tax guidance. I think you've moved your range up about 300 basis points over the course of the year. I guess if you could elaborate a little bit more on specifically what is happening here and how we should think about your tax rate moving forward. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks, Chris. I'll take the question on ZOSTAVAX first. I would say that we continue to work on the manufacturing enhancements necessary to fortify and increase our long-term supply. I'd also say we're encouraged by the progress that we have been making.

We still back orders; but from our perspective those back orders are getting shorter in duration. So we are optimistic that we are starting to get some good solutions. But time will tell, and I can't say for sure when we will be able to definitively declare that those issues are completely behind us.

PETER KELLOGG: Hi, Chris. This is Peter. I'll take the second question. You're right; we have increased our view of the tax rate during 2011.

I would say that the primary driver of that shift over the course of the year has been product mix. We've had some really tremendous performance from some of our products, particularly JANUVIA, JANUMET, that are just going very well.

We also, as you may recall, closed out an IRS review earlier in the year. At that time obviously you may recall we had a gain from that. But we also slightly revised some of our FIN 48 reserve rates, just in recognition of some of the dialog and items that we observed during that review.

So those are the two factors. I think the mix is the biggest one.

In terms of how you should think about it going forward, obviously we will give 2012 guidance on the fourth-quarter call, so I can't really give guidance now. But I think certainly a good place -- tax sort of evolves. Tax rates evolve; they don't jump around. So I think it's always good to start with what the current year ends up at as a good starting point.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks very much. Wondered if you could give us a little bit more of a peek behind the curtain, Ken, on the R&D expense. It seems like there's been three consecutive quarters where you've brought down the level of targeted (technical difficulty). Wondering if there is not an element of initial stages of burning off some of the obligations of the outcome studies, which is obviously something that should be more prominent I think next year in 2013. If this is integration related, where there might be a little bit of uncertainty on timing, and have you got more visibility on that? I would just like to have a little bit more color on how that process has been playing out for you as you have changed those targets.

And then if you could just speak to Animal Health growth. Obviously very strong there, and wondering -- are their commercial or government contracts that are expanding the market, or other trends we should be thinking about in modeling that business?

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Thanks, Catherine. Ken, do you want to start?

KEN FRAZIER: Yes, Catherine, thanks for the question. First on the outcomes study side of things, obviously from a vorapaxar standpoint we are starting to wind down some of the costs associated with vorapaxar. Also that we have the sharp year-on-year benefit there.

I think the other issues that we are facing are some of the savings that we thought or efficiencies that we thought we would get in connection with the merger. So we are seeing facilities being closed.

And I think across R&D, Peter and his colleagues are really focused on identifying ways to improve the efficiency of all the R&D processes. So that is a major focus of our work right now, is to try to continue to find efficiencies in our processes.

But at the same time I want to be clear, we remain firmly committed to investing in R&D, which has always been the cornerstone of our success. We are confident that that R&D investment will lead to another cycle of scientific innovation. So we were very much committed to staying at the forefront of biomedical innovation while at the same time reducing the time and money we spend on developing medical breakthroughs at every stage.

PETER KELLOGG: Catherine, maybe if it's okay I will take the Animal Health question. Indeed you are right; the Animal Health team has done just a great job.

They're having a good year. It's very broad-based across the business, their performance. We often point to different animal segments, but quite frankly it would be along the straight and narrow, because they are doing quite well in all areas.

The interesting thing about the Animal Health business is that right now about 50% of their growth is coming from new products that they are launching into the market. They have a very good pipeline, and those pipeline products are just beginning to come through. There's many more still in late stage or about to be launched. So we are pretty pleased with the results.

Now I think you will just note that obviously they are a very international business, so there is some ForEx benefit. So I believe you'll see in the third quarter we had 20% revenue growth, but about 6 points of that or 6% was foreign exchange based. So it's good to note that.

But still you can see underlying that, they are doing a great job. And again, 50% of it is in-line products and 50% are new product launches.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much and let me add my congrats as well on the vaccine business rebound. With respect to the operating cost base, obviously your operating costs exclude acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs.

Could you just help us understand where the baseline stands today? Where the number of employees was at the end of the third quarter versus the end of last year, and how much has already been stripped out of the run rate of costs, and how we should think about costs coming down going forward. Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks. Peter, do you want to take that?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure. So really a pretty broad-based question, Dave, and I think there is a lot going on. Let me just start with the value capture from the merger. As we talked about, we have set a pretty strong goal out there of net synergies. And at this point we are happy to point out that we are in the $2.8 billion, $2.9 billion kind of rough area of billions of dollars of savings coming through; and you can see it in the P&L.

The other thing I would say is that clearly we're in the neighborhood of about 90,000 to 91,000 employees at this point as of the end of the third quarter, which obviously is very clear progress. I think the one thing to highlight is that really a lot of the things that we are doing with our operating cost base -- I just want to point some of the comments Ken made in his speech.

It really is in all areas of the Company. Our R&D organization -- obviously we have talked about it -- has been working to become more efficient and more productive. But the same is true around the world in our commercial organization. They have really rapidly combined their commercial organizations and got a lot of benefit from that. But they continue to drive more and more productivity; and Adam can talk to the kind of multichannel approaches that he's using and so forth.

It's also true in manufacturing, the network. Willie Deese and his team are looking to have a long-term plan to really refine and reduce the infrastructure and build the efficiency of our entire global supply chain.

And also in the G&A areas, all the areas are looking to become a little bit more variable and more virtual, and become even more and more of an efficient, productive Company -- which is, I think, the right thing obviously to be doing in this world.

I think that what is important to remember though, as you look at our cost base, is that while we are definitely getting these savings we are also at the same time making sure that we make investments in areas like the emerging markets and product launches and really driving the pipeline forward, to make sure that we fuel future growth.

Because as Ken has highlighted, we really are taking a long-term view of where we want to be. We want to have the right cost structure; but at the same time we want to drive investments.

Year to date, for example, our investments in the emerging markets have been quite significant. I think Adam, you can comment on that, if you like.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, and we will spend some more time on it on November 10, but we have got investments in emerging markets that are greater than $400 million year to date, above what we spent last year. And we have been able to do that while we are continuing to invest in new product launches around the world.

We will show you more of how we have transformed our commercial model so that we can really be impactful in the mature markets, but grow significantly and reinvest even more in emerging markets.

ALEX KELLY: Great. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Thank you. A question on VYTORIN and ZETIA, on pricing and formulary positioning. AstraZeneca yesterday in their Q3 call talked about the downward pricing pressure on Crestor that generic Lipitor is going to create. I imagine the same will hold true with VYTORIN, but wondering if it might also apply to ZETIA.

This is still a big franchise for Merck at about $4 billion a year. I am wondering if you can also just mention formulary positioning heading into 2012.

Then second question is on your PNEUMOVAX vaccine. I know it is a smaller product at just under $400 million a year, but hoping you can discuss what you expect will happen, assuming approval of Pfizer's Prevnar 13 for adults. How fast do you think the decline could be, for example?

I know you have your own 15-valent version of Prevnar in Phase II. But that still seems like it is quite a few years away.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, thank you, Tim. Adam, do you want to start with that?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, so Tim, let me talk first about VYTORIN and ZETIA, and then I will get to PNEUMOVAX. If you look at -- let me start off with a ZETIA. ZETIA, currently about half of the use is in statin-intolerant patients. Obviously irrespective of Lipitor being on or off patent, that population doesn't get impacted.

The other half of the use is add-on to statins. It is typically added on at about the same market share as you see the market share for the statins in the marketplace. There is no reason to believe that physicians will not add ZETIA to statins as much in the future as they have in the past, irrespective of what is happening with generic Lipitor.

In addition, with VYTORIN we continue to work with formularies. We have already begun to work on formularies not just for 2011, but we are looking at 2012. I can tell you our contract discussions to date, we have been able to successfully maintain our status for the vast majority of Medicare D plans, which you know you already had to submit formularies for earlier this year. I can tell you recently one of the largest commercial customers maintained a formulary status for 2012.

So I believe that there will continue to be pressure. There has been pressure for several years, frankly, because there has been generic statins. I think generic Lipitor in the marketplace will have a minimal impact on ZETIA, and so far we have been fairly successful maintaining our formulary position for VYTORIN.

With regard to PNEUMOVAX, PNEUMOVAX 23 has the broadest serotype coverage of any pneumococcal vaccine. If you look at the CDC information, in 2009 the serotypes in PNEUMOVAX 23 were responsible for about 76% of disease in adults 50 to 64 years old, and 66% of the disease in adults who were 65 years of age or older.

So I believe that we will continue to have a very good vaccine here that will be successful in the marketplace. I am not going to comment on the impact of competition right now, but I believe that we are going to be and continue to be successful moving forward.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Morning. I have two questions. One, can you talk about GARDASIL specifically in the US? I know you mentioned O-US, with Japan obviously impacted there. But what was the key to the US growth besides just back-to-school, which obviously comps take care of that?

Then the second question is on VICTRELIS. Can you just help us understand and put in context just the Vertex sales number that they put out yesterday, that I am sure you have already seen, and the number that you reported in revenues. Then also talk about the EU launches and how your expectations there relative to the US as far as the ramp-up? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Adam, why don't you take both of those?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, Marc, let me start off with GARDASIL. So, GARDASIL grew 41% in this quarter, and we were very pleased with that. I mentioned that about $50 million of that was GARDASIL launch stocking for Japan.

If you look at the US specifically, we are seeing continued uptake of the male indication. In fact about 30% of the first doses today are coming from the male indication.

We have seen a very strong back-to-school season. We were prepared; we were ready; we were in physicians' offices. And I think we were able to execute very, very well around the back-to-school season. So we remain very pleased with the execution of our team for back-to-school.

We were also pleased with the expanded recommendation for the routine vaccination of boys 11 to 12 which happened earlier this week. I think that we will continue to see increases in boys being vaccinated, but it's going to come at the same time with less females that are available to be vaccinated.

So the bottom line is we are pleased with the growth of GARDASIL. We think there is continued room for growth in the US as we move forward. But I would be careful not to look at the boys as an incremental opportunity without realizing that there will be less girls that will be moving into the marketplace.

So with regard to VICTRELIS -- and let me take some time and walk you through how I think about VICTRELIS. First of all, if you look at the IMS share, it shows about 25% TRx share. We believe it is somewhere between 25% and 30%.

If you look at number of patients treated with VICTRELIS we believe it is about 5,000 patients. We have seen that our share is growing. It has grown seven out of 10 weeks, and our TRx volume is growing.

The issue is that it takes us about 3 times longer to get the value from a patient; and let me explain that. If a patient was started on VICTRELIS today and another patient was started on the competition today, the competition would get the value over 12 weeks. VICTRELIS would get value 20 more weeks above those 12 weeks, because the therapy and the length of therapy with VICTRELIS is much longer than it is for the competition.

There is a slightly different price as well. So as I look at the future, I look at what our share is and then I look at the fact that we will get dollars per patient much longer than what the competition does. Then in addition to that I look at the VA and also some high-control Medicaid plans where they have chosen VICTRELIS as the exclusive product on formulary, and I think that we will be able to show growth in those areas as well.

With regard to the launches ex-US, it is very early. The price is similar to the US. The anecdotal feedback that we are getting is very strong. I have spoken to some of our managing directors across Europe and in Brazil, and we are very optimistic about our ability to launch VICTRELIS successfully in those markets.

The thing I would also say is if you look at the high-control areas, like the VA and some of the high-control Medicaid, where VICTRELIS has had a good formulary control or formulary position, in Europe, where they are very price sensitive, we believe that VICTRELIS will also be in a very good position.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me just say that I think that the GARDASIL case is an example of why it's important to invest in lifecycle management. Also I think the VICTRELIS future opportunity is another example of why we think it is important to invest in new product launches, so that we can have a durable opportunity with VICTRELIS over time. Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Just say few follow-ups for Marc's question on VICTRELIS. Just so I understand it -- what is, Adam, your share of new patient starts today?

Based on your description or the difference between what you have reported and what we are seeing in TRx-es, are you suggesting then that the fourth quarter should be more representative of the TRx demand that you are seeing?

Is there an opportunity to further grow your share from what you are seeing? Because we have now been through two full quarters of both PIs, and it does appear that Incivek has a substantial lead. I am just wondering what your thoughts are on how or if that could change; and we are trying to think about a run rate for next year.

Then just so I understand this, specifics around the VA deal how long does that -- is that deal good for? Are VA doctors not allowed to give other patients the -- to give patients the other VA -- or the other PI in the VA setting?

And I don't know if you want to talk about the discount that you had to give to win that business. But if you can give any color around how we should think about the profitability of that opportunity, that would be great. Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Okay, Jami. There is a lot there. So let me start and then if I miss anything you can jump in.

So if you look at VICTRELIS, I think the best way to look at new patient starts is to look at new Rx-es. The TRx-es will give you a sense of continuing patients and new patients.

Our new patient starts are also showing an about 25% market share. We believe that IMS is off maybe 3 to 5 share points. So we think that our market share of new patients is probably closer to 28% to 30% based upon our own data.

With regard to how to think about it, I wouldn't think about it from one quarter to the next quarter and any type of catch-up that way. It is going to be over time. Because for every patient that comes into the market it takes 32 weeks of treatment with VICTRELIS versus -- and that is on average, somewhere between 30 and 32 weeks -- versus 12 weeks with the competition. So each patient continues on therapy for a much longer period of time if they are on VICTRELIS.

Now it's important to note that irrespective of which protease inhibitor a patient is on, they have to be on treatment for a long period of time anyway because of PEGINTRON and ribavirin treatment. It is just that their competition is more front-end loaded versus where VICTRELIS is, and it occurs much more gradual.

Another way to think about it is if you just take the total number of scripts in the market, and you would times that by the amount of dollars per week, and you assume each script is worth four weeks, you could get to about the sales that have been reported for the products. So that is another way to start to think about it.

With regard to the VA deal, it is a several-year deal. It is a two-year contract. The physicians typically follow the formulary. We are the only PI on formulary.

They can have access to the other product, but it is a way that they have to go about that with a lot of paperwork and it's difficult for them to do. But it can be done, and there are some physicians that will do it.

The other thing is that the price is not public right now. I can tell you we continue to negotiate other contracts, so I do not want to give the exact price. I think that it would not be a competitive good move.

But it is profitable for us, and we have a lot of experience in the VA. We have worked there in many classes. Many of our most important products over time have been part of the formulary, and we are very pleased to be working with them again with VICTRELIS, because the patient population is very large here.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. Two questions. First, Ken, you mentioned a few minutes ago a wind-down of costs related to vorapaxar. What does this imply for the TRA-2P trial, which I believe is still running towards a conclusion? Are you signaling that that trial will be stopped as well?

And secondly, Merck stated in September and Ken you reiterated today, that it has greater freedom to operate in the RX-to-OTC switch realm after selling its stake in Merck's J&J OTC to J&J. The question is, will Merck now pursue an OTC switch of SINGULAIR for allergic rhinitis? And if you plan not to do that, can you please tell us why you will not do that? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, so let me just say that with respect to both TRACER and 2P, we will have an update on November 10, particularly with respect to 2P. TRACER, we will have that data be presented at AHA in November.

So my comment on vorapaxar shouldn't be read as implying any change in either one of those studies, except the fact that TRACER really is winding down in a normal course.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And Steve, with regard to SINGULAIR OTC, we are not presently pursuing that opportunity.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Bank of America.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. For Adam, can you frame the opportunity for GARDASIL in the male market and talk about how much has penetrated already?

Then secondly, on the VA contract for VICTRELIS, should we assume that that is all about price? Or are there other angles that we should appreciate about your differentiated message? Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes. So once again I think that if you look at the recommendation, it's for routine vaccinations of boys 11 to 12. It moves the recommendation from the current permissive, at provider's discretion, to universal on the routine schedule.

However, I also mentioned that about 30% of our first doses already were being administered to males. It may improve our managed-care coverage; but we already have about 75% of managed-care coverage for males already.

So we are not providing the penetration rates yet because it is still early and it is still relatively low, and we want to see how that progresses over time. But I do believe that it would be much slower than what we have seen in the rates that we have seen for penetration into the female segment.

ALEX KELLY: The second question I think was about the VA in terms of how did we get on the formulary.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Oh, so with the VA, the first thing the VA does is they do a clinical review. So they look at the efficacy of the product; they look at the safety of the product. And then after a clinical review they will do a pricing review.

So it's the totality of the product. It's clinical and pricing that enabled us to be on the formulary.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much and good morning. Adam, you call out a number of your established products and the growth that has occurred. One of those of course is ISENTRESS, which continues to grow very well both in the US but especially well ex-US.

I wanted to simply focus on the US growth, though, and ask questions around elvitegravir; and if in fact you think you need to increase overall resources for ISENTRESS in the US in the upcoming year with the assumption that Quad comes to market. Thanks very much.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Tony. Adam?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, hi, Tony. So we are pleased with the growth of ISENTRESS. We had 23% growth year-over-year.

We had a little bit of a slowdown if you look quarter over quarter, but that is because a lot more patients for this quarter moved into the ADAP, which is more discounted. But that is not uncommon to occur, and we have seen that happen in years in the past, where one quarter slows down versus other quarters. I like to look at the year-over-year growth, which we are still very pleased with.

We look at our resources very carefully. I think we are resourced well. If we believe we need to increase our resources we have the capability and the ability to do it, for sure.

When I look at Gilead's Quad I think there's a couple things to keep in mind. First is the inclusion of the booster in the Quad. I think that you have to look at tolerability that that might bring into play. I think that it might enable ISENTRESS to have a tolerability advantage, because it does not have a booster for ISENTRESS.

Now that HIV has become much more of a chronic disease, long-term safety and efficacy data are very important. ISENTRESS has long-term safety and efficacy data. So I believe that we will continue to be successful with ISENTRESS despite the competition next year. I think we have the right level of resources; and if we need to increase those resources we will.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, thank you. I think we have time for two more questions, please.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the results. First question for Ken. As you take a fresh look, Ken, at the cost structure of Merck, recognizing there is a need for investment but certainly also potentially room for cost-saving initiatives, how are you thinking about at least Merck's cost structure and how a major pharma look over the longer term?

Then second for Adam, on your China sales can you just break off what percent of those revenues are coming from off-patent medicine versus on-patent medicines?

Then just very quickly on DULERA and the COPD filing in the US, does it contain data on exacerbation? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Ken, you want to start?

KEN FRAZIER: So on the first question around the overall cost structure, I think it's important to remember that we are on track for the synergy goal that we set with respect to the merger in the first place. Last quarter we announced an additional restructuring around $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion,(Sic-see press release) so I think that shows you that we see opportunity.

We also see the need competitively to be a very efficient organization. We talked about R&D a few minutes ago, and I wanted to be very clear. We are very much committed to funding R&D.

But Peter Kim and his colleagues are also committed to looking at ways in which they can increase the efficiency of everything that they do in R&D. Adam and his colleagues in the commercial area are also looking at the best way to serve customer, consistent with that theme of efficiency.

And, lastly, I think from a network standpoint and a manufacturing standpoint, we have a lot of work to do in front of us to bring together the plant structures that we have and to find efficiencies there. I would also say that in our headquarters group people also see the need to behave and to run the Company in a way that allows us to be as efficient as possible and reallocate resources where they are going to drive the most growth.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Adam?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Then with regard to China, we reported about 50% increase in sales quarter over quarter. The reason I affirmed that overall for the full year we believe that the growth will be 30% is because, as I have said many times, in the emerging markets you have some quarters where there's purchasing patterns that cause increases or decreases versus prior quarters.

If you look at last year, we had less sales in July than typical, and therefore the year-over-year growth of 50% seems higher than it actually was. It was probably closer in the 30%.

So that is why I wanted to make sure people understood for the full year we expect sales to be -- growth in China to be well over 30%.

But the other thing that is important is we do very well with both patented and unpatented products in China. I don't have the sales broken out exactly like that for you. I am going to spend more time speaking about China specifically on November 10, and I will be able to provide you with some additional insight into how we see that market and how we see our growth coming from that market.

With regard to DULERA, we already have significant improvements in lung functions and also less exacerbations in the label for asthma, and the additional -- the COPD claim I think will help us continue to grow. But it will also help us to get onto formularies, because having both indications is going to be important and helpful. But we already have the exacerbation data available to us in the label.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thanks very much, so I actually have just three quick questions. First, can you just update us quickly on prospects for Lipitor, ZETIA and the JANUMET XR in terms of just filing capabilities and perhaps an update there?

Second, Ken, and for Peter as well, we are seeing very impressive return of cash via the repurchase and the dividend. How should we be thinking about cash returns of the Company?

Because as I see it there is still going to be a fair amount of cash accumulation, certainly relative to consensus expectations for this model. So can you just help us think about what your thresholds are for utilization of cash and whether the stock is a key threshold there?

Then lastly, a question on -- maybe more for Adam -- the importance of biosimilars, as you think about that as part of a potential growth strategy as well as a potential risk long-term. Thanks a lot.

ALEX KELLY: So, Seamus, we will try to keep track on this. Let me start with the biosimilars. We are not going to talk about biosimilars today. We have the November 10 business briefing coming up in less than two weeks, so we will perhaps have that on the topics there.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So let me answer. So JANUMET XR, we responded to the letter from the FDA and we expect to hear back from the FDA in the first quarter of 2012.

With regard to EZ/atorva we already filed that product. Obviously you have probably seen that Pfizer has filed a lawsuit. We are not going to comment on the litigation. The lawsuit has the potential for delaying the FDA's ability to approve the product until January of 2014.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, and just generally I will just kick off the issue around returning cash to shareholders. As we have said all the time we intend to be shareholder friendly in that regard. I think we have done a good job in the past few years in returning cash to shareholders around 70%. And with that, I will turn it over to Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG: Sure. Thanks, Seamus Fernandez, for the question. I think as you saw in our share repurchase activity -- in our year-to-date activity quite frankly, we are actually this year repeating the performance and having a very strong return of cash to shareholders.

We don't give guidance going forward on that, so I am not able to really comment on it specifically. But I think generally I'm most comfortable highlighting that we stick to the standard that we really need to make sure we invest in the business, whether that be through pipeline or investments geographically. So we make sure that we have the resources to drive the strategic growth of the business going forward.

Then beyond that I think we have demonstrated over and over again, and we really have a goal, Ken and I both, with our Board, to make sure that we really are shareholder friendly. We clearly saw in the third quarter an opportunity to utilize the authorization for share repurchase, and I think we did a nice -- that was a nice volume there.

We do have a dividend of $4.7 billion on an annual basis. But I think as we go forward, Ken and I both said that we are very focused on making sure that we continue the heritage of being very shareholder friendly in terms of how we return cash to shareholders.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. Let me just close the call by thanking you all for being here with us this morning. I just want to say again I think this was another good quarter.

As a management team at the beginning of this year we said our intent was to make selective investments that would drive both the top line and the bottom line, and we are pleased that we are able to show that kind of execution. Going forward we look forward to discussing with you on November 10 our perspectives on Merck's strategy to drive growth and shareholder value over the longer term.

Peter Kim and his colleagues will be speaking with you about the many promising projects in our pipeline. And, finally, as Adam has said, he will also be able to share with you his views of our product portfolio and the commercial strength that is driving the top-line growth that we just discussed today.

So thank you very much again for joining us, and I look forward to seeing you on November 10.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes Merck's third-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc. | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111111e7as004bm
  


 HD
 Q2  2011  Merck  & Co Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,321 words
   PD
29 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's second-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

ALEX KELLY, SVP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Brook, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to Merck's 2011 second-quarter earnings call. Before I turn the call over to Ken, I want to point out a couple of things.

First, there are a number of items in the GAAP results this quarter, such as acquisition related charges, restructuring costs, and a one-time tax benefit. We have excluded those items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables so you can get a better sense of the underlying performance. Next we have also provided tables to help you understand the revenue trends.

So in our press release you see three tables. First table is the GAAP results, the second table reconciles GAAP to non-GAAP on the P&L, and the third table provides the sales results for the Company, the products, and the business units.

During the call we will be referring mostly to tables two and three when we discuss our performance.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties.

Our SEC filings, including Item 1a in the 2010 1010-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we make today. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement.

The SEC filings as well as our earnings release and the tables are available on our website at Merck.com. So now we are ready to begin.

This morning I am joined by Ken Frazier, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Schechter, our President of Global Human Health; and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now I would like to introduce Ken Frazier.

KEN FRAZIER, PRESIDENT & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex, and good morning, everyone. This is a time of great opportunity at Merck and our second-quarter, which was strong, is indicative of the focused progress we are making to deliver on the goals I outlined for you earlier this year.

This quarter we deliver top-line sales growth of 7% driven by a strong in-line portfolio and new product launches, together with disciplined expense management, while allocating targeted resources to fund our future growth drivers. This resulted in double-digit non-GAAP EPS growth.

That is our game plan and we are continuing to execute on all aspects of our growth strategy by maximizing our product portfolio, delivering the R&D pipeline, expanding geographically, and building upon the newly renamed Merck Animal Health Division and Merck Consumer Care. We are delivering this top-line growth while continuing our efforts to streamline and transform Merck's operating model.

In terms of maximizing the current portfolio, we had another quarter of double-digit growth for many of our key products such as JANUVIA, JANUMET, REMICADE, and ISENTRESS. In addition, Merck Animal Health once again made solid contributions to our total performance.

Another driver of our second-quarter performance is the progress we are making in launching new products around the world. With more than a dozen product launches underway in various markets, we believe this speaks well of our ability to deliver new drugs from our research pipeline.

As I said last quarter, we firmly believe that the predominant driver of long-term growth and sustainable value creation for Merck will continue to come from discovering and developing new and differentiated products that address unmet medical needs. VICTRELIS is just such a product. It is a first-in-class protease inhibitor and a significant medical advance.

As you know, the US launch is underway. We are concentrating our efforts to ensure that patients are treated appropriately with the new standard of care. While many physician prescribers thus far have yet to initiate patients on triple combination therapy, we are encouraged both by the early demand and positive feedback from physicians, payers, and patients.

It is hard to overstate how rewarding it is for the Merck team to be able to bring such a significant new product to patients who need it. Our recent approval in Brazil now makes VICTRELIS the first in this new class to be approved in the US, EU, and Latin America. Adam will speak more about the VICTRELIS launch in a moment.

Beyond the VICTRELIS approval, we have also received three recent approvals in Japan -- GARDASIL, ZOLINZA, and CUBICIN. From a lifecycle management standpoint, we have filed two applications with the FDA. The first is for an expanded indication for both VYTORIN and ZETIA based on the data from the SHARP trial for the treatment of patients with chronic kidney disease. If approved, this will be the first and only cholesterol-lowering therapy with proven cardiovascular outcomes for this set of patients.

The second is for a preservative-free formulation of COZAAR. We have also made additional progress in the pipeline by enrolling the first patients in the 30,000-patient anacetrapib outcomes trial.

As I mentioned to you last quarter, we are not in a business-as-usual mode when it comes to managing our investments in R&D. We continue to improve the decision process by which we either commit to or discontinue projects, and we are being more aggressive about prioritizing the programs as well as the therapeutic areas where we will invest. With the number of important trials scheduled to complete in 2012 and 2013, we remain confident in Merck's late-stage pipeline and we look forward to telling you more about our progress at the R&D and business briefing which is planned for November 10.

While our late-stage pipeline holds great promise, we know that to become a global healthcare leader we much must tap into research and pipeline opportunities wherever they are around the world. To do that we have to continue our partnerships with the right companies.

One such example is our strategic collaboration with Hanwha Chemical Corporation. Under the terms of this agreement Hanwha and Merck will work together to develop and commercialize the biosimilar form of ENBREL, one of the leading biological products on the market today.

This unique collaboration is entirely consistent with our approach to allocating investments across R&D segments that reside at different points on the risk-reward continuum. This enables us to better balance risk and timing within our overall portfolio and maximize the value of our pipeline and in-line product assets.

Biosimilar candidates, for instance, can provide Merck with a solid return on investments with less product development risk relative to an unproven mechanism. Overall, we remain on track to have five biosimilar candidates in late-stage development by the end of 2012.

Another key aspect of our growth strategy is geographic expansion. Just last week we announced an agreement with Simcere Pharmaceutical Group in China. This partnership leverages our marketing capabilities and Simcere's broad reach in China's emerging cities to increase access to medicine while providing potential for near-term commercial benefits to both companies.

Overall, this agreement increases Merck's presence in China while also helping us to operate in this must-win market with margins consistent with a profitable growth strategy. Meanwhile we are seeing strong year-over-year growth of 30% in China.

Moving on to operations. This is a time of ongoing transformation as we reshape our company to adapt to our changing environment while becoming more lean and nimble. We remain on course to achieve our $3.5 billion target merger cost savings by the end of 2012. We remain on track.

Beyond this, however, we believe we need to do more. As I have said previously, we are committed to growing our company. To do that we are moving on from our initial merger integration target to focus even more aggressively on reducing our cost structure so that we can continue to invest in profitable growth.

Therefore, today we announce a new phase of our merger restructuring program which we first began in February of 2010. The program is designed to further optimize our cost structure. Here are the highlights of the phase we announced today.

We plan to reduce our combined workforce by an additional 13% by 2015. These planned job reductions will come disproportionately from the elimination of non-revenue-generating positions such as administrative and headquarters personnel, consolidation of office facilities, and ongoing sale or closure of manufacturing sites including animal health facilities. Importantly, at the same time as we are reducing our overall employee base we have been hiring, and will continue to hire, in key areas like emerging markets where we have significant growth opportunities before us.

We also expect to realize additional annual cost savings of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion. My intent is that most of this will drop to the bottom line through a combination of investments that produce top-line growth and reductions in our operating cost base by the end of 2015.

Depending on the opportunities in front of us, we will reinvest some of the savings whenever the returns justify the investment to drive longer-term growth and profitability. This will enable us to boost both near- and longer-term profit margins and ensure that we can be fast and flexible in capitalizing on the best growth opportunities whenever they arise.

For our people this won't be easy, but the realities of our environment dictate the need to operate more flexibly and nimbly from a lower cost base. We are taking these difficult actions now so that we can grow profitably and continue to deliver on our mission well into the future. By improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our operations and focusing on ways to deliver customer value through innovation, we are positioning Merck for sustained, profitable growth.

In closing, Merck remains totally focused on growing both the top and bottom lines. Our results demonstrate our ability to do just that as well as advance the pipeline and establish innovative partnerships which will support our growth strategy. I believe we are well-positioned to continue accelerating our momentum, leveraging the benefits of the merger, and delivering on our mission to discover, develop, and provide innovative products and services that save and improve lives around the world.

Thank you for listening, and I would like to now turn the call over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken, and good morning, everyone. It is a pleasure to speak with you today and provide you with an overview of the performance of Global Human health. Global Human Health had another strong quarter with revenue growth of 7.5% or 3% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.

The acceleration of our Human Health top-line sales to $10.4 billion was driven by growth across all regions and double-digit growth for several of our largest products. We are continuing to execute on our commercial growth strategy that I discussed last quarter and we are doing that through the following -- growing our core business, expanding our core business, and accelerating new launches such as VICTRELIS. We will do this while making smart and timely investments in the growth opportunities before us and by focusing on the needs of our customers.

So first, let me focus on what grew in the core business which includes the largest, most developed markets. I will start with the United States.

The United States represents about 40% of our pharmaceutical and vaccine sales. US sales grew 2% year over year and were driven by double-digit growth from our diabetes, infectious disease, neuroscience, and vaccine businesses. Our core brands, such as JANUVIA and ISENTRESS, continued their consistent, strong growth.

This quarter we also had solid contributions from GARDASIL and better supply levels of ZOSTAVAX which is encouraging. The fast growth of these brands was offset by lower sales in our respiratory franchise due to a slow allergy season and lower US sales for our cholesterol franchise. The overall positive performance in the United States shows the benefits of having a strong portfolio of diverse brands in multiple therapeutic areas.

Moving to Europe and Canada, sales were up 9% this quarter driven by double-digit growth of our diabetes, immunology, and infectious disease franchises, the favorable impact of foreign exchange, and the impact from movement in inventory ahead of our SAP implementation in Europe. The growth was achieved despite approximately $250 million of unfavorable impact from EU austerity measures, generic erosion, and a return of SUBUTEX and CAELYX. We continue to see the EU as an area of long-term opportunity for differentiated brands despite many of the macro challenges in the individual markets.

Moving on to other areas of growing the core. There are several brands that stand out as examples of winning through differentiation and execution. Let me start with JANUVIA and JANUMET, which grew 35% this quarter.

With only five years on the market, the JANUVIA and JANUMET franchise is our second-largest franchise and now has 26% market share in the global branded oral anti-diabetes market. We are investing globally and locally in JANUVIA and JANUMET to ensure we continue to grow the business and capitalize on all market opportunities.

We are also investing in lifecycle management as we have multiple fixed-dose combinations under regulatory review.

Moving to SINGULAIR, sales grew 8% driven by the strong growth in Japan and US pricing, which was offset by a lighter-than-expected allergy season in the United States as well as austerity measures in Europe and Turkey.

In immunology franchise, strong REMICADE sales with about 26% year-over-year growth were driven largely by class-leading share of the gastrointestinal indications. We are enthusiastic about the opportunities ahead for REMICADE as we leverage our robust lifecycle management platform and grow the brand in the retained markets.

As a reminder, as of July 1, we have retained territories representing about 70% of our 2010 REMICADE sales as part of our arbitration settlement. In the markets that we are retaining -- Europe, Russia and Turkey -- REMICADE sales were $552 million.

Combined sales of VYTORIN and ZETIA were flat in the quarter as sales growth in international markets offset declines in the United States. The international performance was driven by growth in Japan and the emerging markets. This quarter we also submitted supplemental applications to the US and European authorities for the use of VYTORIN and ZETIA in the treatment of patients with chronic kidney disease based upon the findings from the SHARP trial.

Now I would like to discuss how we are expanding the core. As part of the expanding core strategy, we are making plans and opportunistic investments to grow our business in the fastest-growing market -- the emerging markets and Japan. In the second quarter we invested in excess of $100 million more in emerging markets than we did last year, and those investments are paying off.

I will start with the emerging markets, which grew 10% to $1.9 billion in the quarter and contributed 18% of our total GHH sales. The growth was driven by the top six markets, which grew a combined 12%. We continue to see the benefits of our strategy and investments in high-growth markets like China and Korea.

In China, sales were $206 million, growing 30%, driven by the infectious disease and respiratory franchises. Our growth in 2011 has consistently exceeded market growth and is being driven by the top 10 products which account for 90% of the sales and growth in China.

One of the opportunities we have is to expand our reach with our core brands in China and we believe it's important to partner with a local Chinese company. Therefore, we have entered into an important partnership with Simcere. This JV will give us greater reach and a broader portfolio in the fast-growing cardiovascular market in China.

Unlike some deals which take time to develop, we believe the Simcere partnership will provide immediate benefits in 2012 that will build over time. We look forward to building the JV with our partner and looking for further opportunities to expand the JV in the future.

We are also expanding the core by investing in Japan which grew 23% to $1.1 billion in the quarter. The performance in Japan was driven by the strong growth of JANUVIA, SINGULAIR, and ZETIA, as well as solid contributions from new launch brands such as BRIDION. We look forward to launching GARDASIL, CUBICIN, and ZOLINZA, which were all recently approved in Japan.

We are building a strong track record of launch excellence in Japan and we have high expectations for bringing these new life-saving products to patients and physicians.

It's not only Japan where we are accelerating new launches. In total, we now have more than 12 products launching around the world, which together contributed more than $350 million to the top line this quarter. I will share some insights from two of our key launches, VICTRELIS and SIMPONI.

For VICTRELIS we are pleased with the execution of the US launch. Given the particular dynamics of this market, the differences in the length of treatment, four-week lead-in, and the use of specialty pharmacies, many of which do not report data to IMS, tracking weekly IMS data cannot yet paint a complete picture of performance. It's still early but we expect to be able to share more robust data with you in the third-quarter call when the launch will be further along. There are, however, some insights we can share that make us confident that the launch is off to a strong start.

Managed care is providing coverage along the lines we expected in Tier 3 for most commercial accounts and Tier 4 for Medicare Part D, although most plants have not yet completed their formal reviews. We had a good level of initial orders at the launch and we are already seeing reorders from customers. And the feedback from the field has been very positive. It increases our confidence in the uptake of VICTRELIS in the United States.

In the EU, as you saw last week, VICTRELIS again was first to market, which is important as we head into the second half of the year and health ministries make reimbursement decisions. I was in Paris for the global launch meeting a few weeks ago and I can tell you the team is ready to go.

The team is ready to launch an emerging markets as well. Brazil became the first of these high-growth markets to approve VICTRELIS just last week. This is one of the top markets for PEG-INTRON, so we expect to have a strong position in Brazil with both physicians and payers. And now that we have agreements in place with Roche in both the United States and other markets, we will have deeper reach to support the launch of the VICTRELIS around the world.

For SIMPONI, we have more robust data to provide. We have already launched in 21 markets where Merck has retained commercial rights and we are doing very well. We are exceeding the performance of others in the class and generating great momentum as we head into the second half of the year. In some countries market share is already above 7% and in many markets our market share is greater than the two most recent competitive launches.

While there have been supply issues on the auto-injector, we expect these issues to be resolved by next year and we have enough pre-frilled syringes to meet demand.

In the territories that were retained as part of the J&J arbitration settlement our combined immunology business with both REMICADE and SIMPONI generated $611 million and about 70% of the growth in total of the franchise. Looking at the broader group of new product launches, we see at our current pace the new product launches are expected to contribute in excess of $1 billion in incremental revenue in 2011; therefore, accelerating new launches continues to be a very important element of our growth strategy.

So in summary, we had another strong second quarter and it's clear that our focus is on driving profitable, top-line revenue growth. And we did that in the second quarter. We will continue to elevate our resources and evaluate them to ensure that we are funding the right growth opportunities in a very targeted manner. And we will continue cutting costs where possible and appropriate.

We look forward to updating you on our progress and performance throughout the year. Now I would like to turn it over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam, and good morning. As you heard from Ken and Adam, we continue to execute on our growth strategy. This quarter we grew the top line 7% and non-GAAP EPS 10%, and we continued to make strategic investments necessary to fuel future growth as Ken mentioned.

Based on this performance we are reaffirming our full-year top-line targets and raising the midpoint of our non-GAAP EPS target range. My remarks today will focus on our non-GAAP results, which exclude acquisition-related charges, restructuring charges including those related to the announcement today, and a one-time tax benefit following the conclusion of an examination of certain prior US federal returns. Now let's get into the result starting with revenue.

Total revenue for the quarter was $12.2 billion, 7% above a year ago. While ForEx benefited revenues this quarter, excluding this ForEx benefit revenue grew 3% over prior year. As Adam said, our key brands and markets, including the emerging markets, and launch products all contributed to this growth.

As you can see from the year-to-date sales growth of 4%, we are right on target to meet our low to mid single-digit revenue growth target for 2011. We remain confident in our top-line performance and our ability to achieve growth this year, even overcoming the J&J settlement that took effect on July 1.

Now let's talk about expenses starting with product costs.

Our non-GAAP product gross margin of 76.7% in the quarter benefited from product mix and manufacturing efficiencies. For example, we continued to drive growth of JANUVIA and produced the higher volumes of ZOSTAVAX, while our manufacturing team continued to drive efficiencies that reduced product costs.

Moving on to M&A, marketing and administrative expenses of $3.4 billion were up over the second-quarter of last year. As we said earlier in the year, we are continuing to realize cost reductions enabling reinvestment in opportunities for growth. Let me take a moment to provide you with more detail on M&A.

This quarter's expense reflected four items that added over $300 million when compared to the same quarter last year. First, the unfavorable impact of ForEx was the largest item. Second, we made over $100 million in incremental investment in emerging markets versus the prior year.

Third, we invested in the success of our launch brands, most notably VICTRELIS. And, lastly, the healthcare reform fee added to our expenses this quarter. These items account for the entire increase versus prior year.

Given current spot rates and our continued plans to make targeted investments in growth of new products and emerging markets, you should factor these items into your assumptions for the rest of the year.

Moving on to R&D, research and development expense of $1.9 billion was below second quarter 2010. We continue to invest in our most promising opportunities and continued to advance the late-stage pipeline. This quarter we are once again lowering the top end of our 2011 R&D target range by $100 million to a new range of $8 billion to $8.3 billion. This range reflects our continued focus and financial discipline as we strive to improve the ROI of our ongoing R&D operations.

Moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 24.3% in the second quarter. There are a number of items contributing to the rate this quarter. First, we just completed the US federal review for years 2002 to 2005. As a result of that we increased our FIN 48 reserves on a few items.

Second, there was a discrete item in the second quarter that will not reoccur in future quarters. And third, the rate was affected by product mix. As a result of these items, we are updating our anticipated tax rate for the year to a new range of 23% to 24%.

Non-GAAP EPS for the second quarter was $0.95 per share, up 10% over the same quarter in 2010. Our 2011 non-GAAP EPS range is now $3.68 to $[3.76]. The new 2011 GAAP EPS range is $1.95 to $2.17. As we look to the balance of the year we do expect that the fourth quarter will be stronger than the third quarter.

So to wrap up my comments about the second quarter, the quarter was characterized by operational sales growth and continued cost efficiencies which enabled us to fund strategic investments in new product launches in emerging markets and still grow non-GAAP EPS by 10%.

Now we have been very aggressive at taking out costs since the merger. I am pleased to tell you that we are right on track to achieve our $3.5 billion merger synergy target. The reality is we need to do more. We want to position ourselves for sustained and profitable growth well into the future.

Today we are announcing plans to further streamline our operations and reduce our cost base. These plans include further reducing headcount by an additional 12% to 13% beyond our previous target of 17% and further reducing the number of manufacturing sites, including animal health sites, and the consolidation of other facilities. These will generate an additional $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion in annual savings by the end of 2015.

So in summary, what you have heard from Ken and Adam and myself is that we are executing on our growth strategy in 2011. With the additional efforts we announced today we continue to demonstrate our commitment to driving out inefficiencies in our cost structure while making the right investments necessary for growth.

This quarter we received approval for four new innovative medicines in the US, the EU, and Japan, and we launched VICTRELIS in the US. We also continued investment in key growth areas such as the emerging markets. We entered into important external collaborations with Simcere and Hanwha, and we delivered growth on the top line and double-digit growth on the bottom line.

Thank you. Now I will turn the call back over to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter. Now we are ready to open up the call to answer your questions. In order to get through as many callers as possible, I would ask you to please limit yourself to one or two questions and note that we will not take any follow-up questions. If you do have additional questions, you are always welcome to rejoin the queue.

So, Brook, we are now ready to begin the Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks and good morning. I have two questions; one, I wanted to ask if you could give us a directional sense for what pricing of VICTRELIS will be in Europe and Latin America relative to the US. Even if you can't give specific pricing, just a directional sense.

Then, secondly, Ken, you talked about the five biosimilars that you expect to be in late-stage development next year. I was wondering if you could give us an update on where Merck stands right now as far as the current capability to manufacture biosimilars and to the extent you will need external capabilities how do you see that market opportunity. Thanks.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Hi, Catherine, I will answer the first question. So giving you a directional sense of the pricing of VICTRELIS, it's going to be about the same as that in the US.

KEN FRAZIER: And on the biosimilars question -- thank you, Catherine. First of all, we will have a lot more to say about this in November, but let me assure you that we are working to ensure that we have in place all the capabilities necessary to succeed in this marketplace. We realize that it's important for us to get these products to market early on and that means that we have to have all aspects of our production chain in place.

PETER KELLOGG: Catherine, I would just note that we have identified three of the programs already in biosimilars, so first is the ENBRIL biosimilar that we just announced with Hanwha. And then we have two; we have a NEUPOGEN biosimilar in development and also a NEULASTA in biosimilar in development as well. More to come.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: I just want to make sure I understand these cost savings. Should we go into the model and take out $1.3 billion of savings just across the board or are you saying that part of it may be made up for from revenues instead of just taking costs down?

And then the second question is can you just give us a sense of -- you said in the press release something about JANUMET with manufacturing being an issue for not getting approved. Can you give us a little more sense of what happened there?

KEN FRAZIER: Mark, thank you for the question. Let me just reiterate how I am thinking about the additional cost savings of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion. As I said earlier, my overall intent is that most of this, not all of it, will drop to the bottom line through a combination, first of all, of investment that drive top-line growth; secondly, some reduction in the operating cost base.

So I am looking at it from the standpoint of what I said all along, which is that we intend to invest with high ROI hurdles in what we think are good growth opportunities on the top line while at the same time having a very strong bottom line. And so as I sit here today I don't know all the opportunities that we will have to reinvest some of the savings to justify longer term and short term growth, but I do anticipate that some of it will be invested in the top line and other parts of it will be fed to the bottom line directly by reducing operating costs.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Mark, I will answer your question with regard to JANUMET XR. So we received a complete response letter related to the resolution of pre-approval inspection issues and the issues did not require any further clinical studies. We anticipate being able to respond to their questions very quickly within weeks and that we anticipate the issues will be resolved quickly.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

ALLISON YOUNG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, this is [Allison Young] phonetic a question on behalf of Tony. I would like to address the press release statement regarding telcagepant. We were wondering how many Phase III trials have already been done or completed for the project.

And Ken and Dick have both focused on striving to achieve ROIC; was there anything that can be done to arrest this project earlier in the process? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: So, Adam, you want to start that?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes. So with regard to telcagepant, it was a decision to discontinue that the development of it because of an assessment of data that we had across the clinical program that included findings from our recently completed Phase III studies. So the Phase III studies are completed.

Based upon that and the data we made the decision to discontinue the clinical development program. I think that we continue to look for ways that we could try to eliminate programs quicker where it makes sense, and I think there is some learnings from this. But also we continue to evaluate ways that we can end programs, when they make sense, as quickly as possible.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: But anyway, my question to you, Ken, is very good news on the long-term cost savings. I think that is something that investors wanted to see. I am just curious to know why you are now not reinstating your long-term earnings guidance, which you pulled after the fourth quarter.

And my other questions relate to VICTRELIS. Adam, if you could tell us what VICTRELIS sales were and a little bit of color around how you think the co-promoting agreement with Roche is going. I noticed that the PEG-INTRON sales looked a little bit light this quarter, which I am not sure I entirely understand.

And if you could talk about the European label. EPO use in Europe tends to be more restrictive than it is in the US and I am just wondering if you see that as a headwind as you market this drug. Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Jami. I will have Ken start.

KEN FRAZIER: So thanks for the question, Jami. As I said when I withdrew the long-term guidance, the way that I intend to run this company is I intend to make smart investments that will drive our long-term profitability and growth. And that continues to be my view of how I should look at this company.

What matters in the long term, as far as I am concerned, is are we making the right investments in our product portfolio to grow it, products like JANUVIA and ISENTRESS and others? Are we making the right investments today that allow us to have a long-term profitable growth strategy in the emerging markets? And then, lastly, are we being smart about the investments that we make on internal and external R&D.

That is basically where I continue to see the Company going. I don't intend to reinstate the long-term guidance. What I believe is the case is that we need to be flexible and responsive and adaptive to whatever happens in the outside world. But my ambition, I want to just underscore, is to grow the top line with a leveraged P&L. And I will continue to deal with the issues that I confront, both opportunities and challenges, with that model of a company in mind.

ALEX KELLY: Adam, do you want to take the VICTRELIS questions, please?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, Jami, let me give you a little bit more color on VICTRELIS. I am going to start with sales of $21 million. Those were strong initial orders that were part of the launch and we have already seen re-orders already occurring.

The way I think about the initial orders is most wholesalers look to get a couple months of supply. And you have to look at the cost of a month of supply; it gives you a sense of what that initial ordering was.

In terms of what we are seeing in the US, first of all, most healthcare professionals haven't even written for either of the PIs right now. Less than 10% of the targeted prescribing universe of 8,000 physicians have already initiated a patient on triple therapy, so that is why I keep saying it's still very early.

What we are hearing qualitatively from market research and also from our field representatives and also with physicians that I have talked with is that they see a very strong and good efficacy profile with VICTRELIS. They believe there is good overall safety and tolerability profile with no surprises. And the dosing of personalized therapies, they believe it's a bit complicated but they believe it will become easier over time.

So it's early, there is still a lot of work to do, but it's going well.

In terms of the Roche co-promotion that is going well also. They are out there with material to be able to talk about the appropriate use of VICTRELIS with their physicians. We see that that co-promotion agreement is going well and that is why we were excited to expand it outside the US to other parts of the world.

With regard to the European label, we are pleased with the label. EPO use, as you know, varies market by market but they deal with the issues that they needed to deal with already with PEG-INTRON. So I believe that they will be able to figure out how they want to deal with the issues around EPO market by market.

In terms of PEG-INTRON, sales were lower primarily due to the continued warehousing of HCV patients as they are still bringing these patients into the market. And there is a lot of clinical trials out there which also accounts for lower use of PEG-INTRON.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thanks. I want to pick up on Jami's point about long-term guidance. Your policy of not giving any long-term guidance elements essentially puts you out of sync with the majority of your peers and I am wondering why they feel comfortable giving it and you guys don't.

There is a lot of moving parts, things like your cost-cutting program; you just goosed up your tax rate for the year by 250 basis points. What should we expect on something like that going forward? So I hope you change your policy at some point and start to reinstate long-term guidance.

My question on IMPROVE-IT, can you confirm that you have the 75% of events now that we might get an update on the second interim look soon? And then can you update us on where you are with your ZETIA atorvastatin fixed dose combination? From what we can tell it's something that you are still very actively pursuing.

KEN FRAZIER: Tim, thanks for the comment. I appreciate your sharing your views. I continue to believe that the right approach for us at this time is to continue to invest in what we believe to be profitable growth opportunities to grow the top line with a leveraged P&L. And that is where we are at the moment.

I continue to think that in the world in which we are operating my responsibility is to make the right investments to drive growth in the long term, but also to allow the Company to be adaptive to what is happening in the environment. And that is, again, how I intend to run the Company.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Tim, this is Adam. With regard to IMPROVE-IT, the 75% interim look will occur this year and we also plan to file the EZ/Atorva combination product in 2011 as well.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Maris, CLSA.

DAVID MARIS, ANALYST, CLSA: Sorry about that. Since everyone is opining I might as well do the same; Ken, actually I am fine with no long-term guidance so pick one in the other column. Too many companies set it out there and it's an artificial thing to -- an excuse to do bad acquisitions and all sort -- and it's managing to a bar.

But that aside, can you tell us a little bit about the strategy in China? You have done a couple really interesting deals there recently. Is this building out a footprint for a sales force, is it accessing drugs?

Maybe a little bit more detail on Simcere, but also where in a few years you will be salesforce-wise in China. Will it be predominately Merck reps or will it be some sort of a combination of the two?

ALEX KELLY: Okay, David

KEN FRAZIER: I am going to turn it over to -- thank you for your question, David. I am going to turn it over to Adam but I will just say, from a big picture standpoint, I continue to believe that the right way to approach a big must-win market like China is to not necessarily duplicate the model that we have had in the developed markets, a model that, frankly, we are now in some ways dismantling in these markets.

I think the right thing is to decide how you can be flexible and how you can ensure that the growth that you have today and in the future is profitable growth in those markets. We know that pricing is different than those markets. We know that it's helpful to actually have partners in those markets who know the markets, who can help us have the right kind of cost structure.

So that is my overall view. It's I want to have growth. I think there is tremendous opportunity in these markets, but it has to be profitable growth that rewards shareholders.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And let me give you some color on China. So we are pleased with the performance in China. The way I think about our strategy in China it really is to develop a significant presence with Merck, Sharp & Dohme, but to partner with local companies to augment our capabilities and also to expand our reach significantly.

We currently have about 5,000 people in China. We have about 3,500 sales representatives, and we continue to increase our sales representatives but they are concentrated primarily in the largest provinces in China.

With deals like Simcere we are able to expand our reach into other provinces in China, but also capitalize on their knowledge and know-how to operate within the Chinese market. And I think that that is very helpful and very important.

In addition to that we are looking for ways to improve our access through multichannel capabilities. We already have the ability to reach 170,000 physicians in China that our representatives don't call on through multichannel capabilities, whether it be mobile technology, teleconferencing capabilities, and other ways, e-mail and so forth. So we continue to look to utilize technology, which in China there is multiple different technologies we can use to expand our reach.

So we look at it as a way for us to invest, but to invest where it makes sense for a multinational company to invest, and then to utilize partnerships where partnerships can help us significantly.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

DAVID MARIS: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Barbara Ryan, Deutsche Bank.

BARBARA RYAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Thank you. Most of mine have been asked but just to follow-up on VICTRELIS; I appreciate that it is early days but I think in the Vertex call they did talk about what they saw as the mix of patients between treatment naive and add-on therapy. And I wonder if sort of 50% of patients coming from treatment naive pools is consistent with what you are seeing as well.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Barbara, thanks for the question. It really is just too early to give you percents and break down. I can tell you we are doing a lot of work, a lot of research to understand the mix, but the data that is out there is really not robust enough to give you a number that I would feel confident is the right number.

Let us continue to do some more work. I will have some more information that I will be able to share on the next quarter call and we will share with you the best information we have that we believe is accurate as soon as we can.

BARBARA RYAN: Appreciate it, thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Merrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Two for Ken; Ken, within the additional cost savings you have outlined what difficult decisions did you have to make as it relates to R&D, either specific programs or philosophies?

And, secondly, at this point how would you describe your strategy and goals for Consumer and for Animal Health? I am not asking if they are core; we have already asked that. Asking for a little more meat on the bones on how you view the strategies and goals for those two segments going forward. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks for your questions, Gregg. I would say, first of all, with respect to R&D what we are doing in R&D is a continuous effort to provide more rigor and focus on ROI. That preceded the latest announcement.

The latest announcements will affect R&D in the same way that it affects the rest of the Company. We are really trying to go at administrative headquarters type personnel, the people who are in effect not directly as involved in discovery and development. We are trying to spare what we call revenue-generating; you might think of it as more aimed at indirect labor than direct labor, if I can put it that way.

I think on the Animal Health situation, I would say that we think we have a very strong business. It's the number two business in the world in terms of size. We think it has really good profit margins.

We see an opportunity to build on that business as we go forward and we are going to look for really good opportunities to build on top of that business where we can create shareholder value. We think there is really great macro trends that affect that business so we are very happy with that.

We also are happy with our Consumer business, although I, frankly, acknowledge that the consumer business could benefit from having greater scale and particularly internationally. Again, the way that I think about that is I have to look at that as a part of our portfolio and look at the opportunities that we have across the entire portfolio in terms of how we run, in effect, our internal capital markets in terms of how we allocate capital to create the most return for shareholders.

So I would just say that Animal Health and Consumer are important to us. They are a part of our strategy. How we proceed to make them even more meaningful in the context of Merck I think is the challenge that we have going forward, but we will not make investments anywhere unless we think they will pay off for shareholders.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. I have two questions. First, I was hoping that you could please discuss hepatitis C in a little bit more detail, including how much of the $21 million was stocking and how IMS data for boceprevir may be different from telaprevir because it was a decent leading indicator for telaprevir sales.

And then, second, Simcere's annual China sales run rate is about $350 million, which is pretty small for a business. Could you please remind us what Merck's sales run rate is in China and how your partnership is going to work with this small organization?

ADAM SCHECHTER: Why don't I take that? I will answer your first question and then get to the second.

For hepatitis C we had $21 million in stocking and there is a couple ways to think about it. The first one is we were approved in the middle of May. If physicians were going to do a four-week lead-in, which is the label, then we would have about two weeks' worth of actual prescriptions according to the label.

Now we know some physicians already had patients on INTRON and just added VICTRELIS immediately, so it's very difficult for us to know exactly how many physicians were following the four-week lead-in exactly or how many were adding to patients that were already on PEG-INTRON.

The second thing to think about is the wholesalers think about how many months of inventory they want to have on the shelves, and based upon the number of months they want to have on the shelves they will purchase that from us. When you think about the cost of VICTRELIS per month then you have to think about how many months of supply the $21 million could actually equate to. What I will tell you is that wholesalers have begun to reorder already.

In terms of the IMS data, the other thing to think about is that most of this business goes through specialty pharmacies, and the IMS data is not nearly as robust in specialty pharmacies. We are shipping to almost all of the specialty pharmacies; there is over 20 of them out there. And IMS ability to report depends upon what specialty pharmas actually give data to them. We don't have insight into that.

So at this point in time it's just way too early to try to look at share from IMS data or to actually try to extrapolate share from sales data, because the cost of therapy per month is very different between the two products.

With regard to China, it's about $200 million per quarter. We grew 30% this quarter.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thanks very much. So I was just wondering if we could maybe get an update from Peter specifically on the thoughts again around the second option with AstraZeneca and again expectations for timing of when that decision would be made, if it's made in 2012, and what is baked into your guidance assumptions.

Second, for Adam, just wondering can you update us in terms of just the pharmaceutical sales in the emerging markets which accounted for 18% in the quarter? Are you still targeting 25% of sales in 2013, particularly given the restructuring of the REMICADE agreement? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Peter, you want to start?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure. Thank you, Seamus. So as you know, the AstraZeneca JV has a -- or AstraZeneca, the company, has an option that they can exercise next year. Of course, we have no insight and I think they have actually articulated they haven't made a decision yet.

At this point though and what we have always assumed is that they would exercise their option, probably sometime during the first half of next year. Obviously we have no insight to that but it's just a planning assumption that we make to think about that.

Of course, if they do exercise their option then our equity income won't be reduced following the close of that, but we will get a payment as is calculated in the agreement. At this point though, unfortunately, Seamus, we really don't have anything else to add. It's really their decision and I think they have articulated they haven't yet made that decision.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Then with regard to the 25% of sales in emerging markets the answer is, yes, that is still our target.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Operator, we have time for two more questions, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. Regarding the ZOSTAVAX sales of $122 million in the quarter, is manufacturing sufficient such that we may view $122 million as a minimum number in any quarter through the end of 2012? So that is the first question.

Then the second question regards telcagepant. Was the discontinuation due to liver findings? And is Merck's view that the mechanism is flawed or that telcagepant is a suboptimal molecule? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Well, on the second one I think that we will be able to address that in greater detail at our annual business briefing. Certainly we ran into issues with the molecule here; I wouldn't necessarily extend that logic to all molecules in the class. I am not saying one way or the other. I think that is a question that we continue to look at in our research labs and we will have more to say about that.

In the terms of the run rate in the second quarter, we were pleased in the second quarter to have available supply to clear a significant number of accumulated backorders. We are continuing to work to release doses as quickly as possible going forward, but as inventory builds we may have additional backorders going forward.

So I would say that I can't say that the supply in the second quarter necessarily dictates quarterly sales going forward. What I can tell you is that we are working diligently to solve the issues so that as we go forward we can get out of backorder and assure the kind of supply that the marketplace is looking for with respect to a vaccine that is well received.

ALEX KELLY: Steve, it's Alex. I would just note that on our website we do -- on the MerckVaccines.com there is a supply statement that is posted there and that indicates when we plan to ship orders based on when they were received. So we are still in a delay of shipping orders from the time they are received.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks very much. I just had two questions. The first was on coming back to the restructuring. When I consider the level of annual savings, can you just give us some color where you are going to be at the end of 2011 relative to this $4 billion to $4.6 billion target?

I am just trying to think about how much incremental savings we should be thinking about if we look at the end of this year through 2015 that could either flow through the P&L or be used for reinvestment.

The second question, if you could just comment on share repo activity in the quarter. I guess I was surprised we didn't see share -- a little bit more share count reduction given last quarter's share repo announcement and your significant ongoing cash flow. I guess maybe when you are answering that can you just also comment is there a target net debt or leverage ratio that you are aiming for that we should also be keeping in mind as we consider cash flow here? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Peter?

PETER KELLOGG: Chris, I think actually all those questions are mine so that is great. I think -- let me take the first one which is the restructuring and let me holistically answer that one.

So going back to the merger value capture piece, the $3.5 billion, as we come through the midyear point right now we are basically at about the $2.5 billion out of $3.5 billion achievement level in terms of savings and productivity and efficiencies from that. So we feel pretty good about that.

The additional announcement we made today will roll out over the next couple of years so it is not all active this year. It will begin kicking in probably more significantly in 2012 because of actions taken as we go through the balance of this year, so that is probably the way I would assume it is we will continue to move forward on the original value capture.

And this new plan will really take the balance of this year to get rolling and start to see some benefits as we go into next year.

On the share repurchase, we were active actually during the quarter on share repurchase. We actually repurchased 9 million shares for something in the neighborhood of $300 million, so as of midyear we have $6.1 billion outstanding on the Board-authorized share repurchase program. Obviously offsetting that was the timing of stock grants to employees in this first half of the year.

So that is our status. We do sense that we will, on an ongoing basis, see a downward trend on shares outstanding. I think that is a fair assumption given the share repurchase program we have outstanding. So that is certainly an ongoing program.

Finally, in terms of net debt, as you know, we have a slight net debt position today. The way we think about it is we think about that holistically relative to our credit rating. And I think we would be glad to go through that in more detail, but we work very closely with the credit rating agencies and understand their methodology.

Applying that methodology to our balance sheet and our business mix and portfolio we target to be in the credit ratings of the -- have the credit score that we have right now. We don't intend to have that go up, very importantly, as our balance sheet strengths, nor do we intend to have it go down unless something catastrophic or significant happened. And I think we kind of announced that at the start of the -- the announcement of the merger that we were targeting this credit rating zone and that we would try to stay there for as much as possible.

Now you will see on our balance sheet that for the second quarter, as we finished the second quarter we had about $16.5 billion of cash and investments and about $18 billion of debt. That is the detail, but a slight net debt position. But we really focus on the credit rating and we like where we are.

But, very importantly, as we go forward in future years, we do not intend to have the credit rating go up which means that obviously we would be very shareholder friendly. As we continue to have strong cash flows we do not plan to have that build up on the balance sheet.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Ken, would you like to say anything in closing?

KEN FRAZIER: Yes. First of all, I thank you all for being on the call today. And just to remind you, the way we are thinking about the future in this company we are very optimistic that we can grow both the top and the bottom lines in this company over time.

What that means, first of all, is that we have to be really focused on executing in the in-line products we have and the launch products we have and in the pipeline importantly. In terms of ensuring that we can make the necessary investments to drive top-line growth, we are also focused on our cost structure.

We recognize that we are facing a singular patent expiration next year as well as an environment that is a lot tougher than in the past. And so we are determined to look at our cost structure to make the kinds of changes to allow the Company to operate at a lower cost base and to be able to adapt to the market conditions and to take advantage of the opportunities that we believe that Merck has in front of it.

Thank you very much for listening today. We look forward to talking to you again in the future.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes the conference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc. | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110812e77t006el
  


 HD
 Q1  2011  Merck  and Co Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,890 words
   PD
29 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Arnica and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Merck first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Mr. Kelly, you may begin your conference.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, SVP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Arnica and good morning, everyone and welcome to Merck's 2011 first-quarter conference call. Before I turn the call over to Ken, I wanted to point out a couple of things. First of all, I really want to thank Joe Romanelli for his contributions to the investor relations team over the last 4.5 years. He has been a great asset to our team and I really thank him for his time with us.

Some of you may know this is Joe's last day in the investor relations team as he begins the next chapter in his career at Merck where he will be working as the Executive Director of Global Human Health Operations supporting Adam Schechter and his leadership team. So Joe, good luck in your new role.

Second, as usual, there are a number of items that I need to remind you of before we begin. First, if you look at our GAAP results, there are some items such as purchase accounting adjustments, merger-related expenses, restructuring costs and other charges, such as the arbitration settlement. We have excluded those items from our non-GAAP results so you can get a better sense of the underlying performance.

Next, we provided tables to help you understand the trends in the business. There are three tables in the press release. Table 1 is the GAAP results; table 2 reconciles our GAAP P&L to non-GAAP for the second quarter -- excuse me -- for the first quarter and year-to-date period. Table 3 is a supplement to our non-GAAP results, which provides the sales performance for the Company's business units and products. During the call today, we will be referring to table 2 and table 3.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make today might be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risk and uncertainties.

Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2010 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause our actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements we make today. And we undertake no obligation to publicly update our forward-looking statements that we make. The Company's SEC filings are available on the Company's website at Merck.com.

Now I would like to announce our speakers this morning -- Ken Frazier, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Schechter, our President of Global Human Health; and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now I would like to introduce Ken Frazier.

KEN FRAZIER, PRESIDENT & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex and thank you, Joe, for your contributions. Good morning, everyone. We are pleased to report strong results for the first quarter of 2011. Our performance underscores that we are successfully delivering on our stated intent to grow both the top line and the bottom line.

This is really an execution story. We are executing on our plans and we believe we are off to a good start this year. The quarter was characterized by growing revenues and double-digit EPS growth. Our performance was largely driven by double-digit growth of key products such as JANUVIA, JANUMET, SINGULAIR, REMICADE, ISENTRESS and NASONEX, combined with deliberate cost control measures across all areas as we continue our work to create a more effective and efficient operating model within Merck.

In addition to the significant contributions of our Human Health portfolio this quarter, our Animal and Consumer Health businesses grew 7% and 6% respectively. We are pleased with the assets we have in Animal Health and Merck Consumer Care and believe they complement our Human Health business. We remain focused on executing our growth strategy, which includes these businesses.

Just a year ago, we were facing a significant patent cliff for our $3.6 billion COZAAR/HYZAAR franchise. Clearly, patent expirations are a fact of life in our industry and going forward, we believe a company's ability to consistently grow through patent expiries will be an important differentiator and measure of success.

I am pleased to say that, over the past year, we grew earnings while at the same time overcoming the loss of exclusivity for our COZAAR/HYZAAR franchise and performing as we did under the integration. Overall, this underscores the strength of our Human Health, Animal Health and Consumer businesses and the benefits of this mix of businesses.

Looking at the quarter's results, it is clear that our business momentum is building as we enter the accelerate phase of our growth strategy. And we continue to demonstrate the ongoing value of the merger. We made progress in our robust late-stage pipeline and are leveraging the benefits of our expanded portfolio.

Indeed, the steps we are taking are paying off and enable us to increase the midpoint of our 2011 guidance range despite the $0.08 to $0.09 second-half impact of the J&J arbitration resolution.

We know that given the long leadtime nature of this industry, in many ways, we are still reaping the benefits of actions and decisions that were taken as long as a decade ago. Therefore, we are taking decisions now that will position us for sustained growth well into the future. We will improve all aspects of our operations, prudently invest for growth and most importantly deliver value through innovation.

A key part of our growth strategy is to maximize revenue from our current products while launching new ones and this quarter's results clearly demonstrate that we are delivering on that front. During last quarter's call, we mentioned that we are increasing disciplined investments in our best growth drivers -- new product launches, select inline products and Japan and the emerging markets expansion opportunities. While still early, our first-quarter results reflect positive underlying trends that support these investments. Going forward, we will complement the growth of our inline products with contributions from the 12 launches currently underway across the spectrum of our therapeutic portfolio.

Turning to R&D, while delivering a strong financial performance, we also are maintaining our focus on advancing the late-stage pipeline. So far this year, we have achieved multiple approvals, including SYLATRON, our injectable cancer therapy for the treatment of stage 3 malignant melanoma after surgery.

Also, on the cancer front, our investigational mTOR inhibitor being studied to treat sarcoma achieved its primary endpoint in a Phase III clinical trial. We plan to file it for approval this year.

On Wednesday, we had an FDA Advisory Committee meeting to review boceprevir now known as Victrelis, our protease inhibitor for the treatment of hepatitis C infections. The vote was a unanimous 18 to nothing. We anticipate approval later this spring in the US and shortly thereafter in Europe.

The Advisory Committee vote underscores the fact that Victrelis represents a significant advance for patients living with hepatitis C. I recently traveled to Germany to meet with scientific leaders at the EASL meeting where data from the pivotal Victrelis Phase III studies were shared with physicians in various international markets. In the conversations Adam Schechter and I had, it was clear that the enthusiasm for Victrelis is commensurate with the potential we see.

We have five additional filings accepted for review by regulatory authorities. Among these are Tafluprost known outside the US as SAFLUTAN, which was submitted in the US for glaucoma; JANUVIA plus Simvastatin in the US; and an extended release formulation of JANUMET. And there is more on the way in 2011 and beyond.

We are also excited about several other candidates in our late-stage pipeline that have the potential to address major unmet medical needs, including TREDAPTIVE, Odanacatib, Suvorexant, our novel orexin inhibitor for the treatment of insomnia, vorapaxar and most notably, in the longer term, anacetrapib, which begins a large outcome study this year.

While there are many good things happening in the pipeline, a few recent events remind us that pharmaceutical and vaccine innovation is not without challenges. That was exemplified by the recent announcement of the suspended enrollment of our staph vaccine V710.

On balance, we remain committed to bringing medical innovations to patients and physicians in ways that also deliver a return on investment in R&D.

Since our fourth-quarter earnings announcement, I have had many discussions with investors and others about the position we have taken to continue making disciplined and focused investments in research and development. Let me take a moment to share how we are thinking about innovation and balancing the risks that are inherent in it.

Over the longer term, we firmly believe that the predominant driver of growth and sustainable value creation for Merck will continue to come from discovering and developing new and differentiated products that address unmet medical needs.

In this regard, Merck has had a long history and recent success of bringing first-in-class and best-in-class medicines and vaccines to the market and we continue to see this as a cornerstone of our research strategy.

We do, however, recognize that first and best-in-class products offer a higher risk and higher reward value proposition. To better balance the risk/reward equation, we are actively managing our overall R&D portfolio and allocating our investments across R&D segments that reside at different points on the risk/reward continuum in a way that positions us to win in each segment.

This includes lifecycle management such as new indications, new formulations and new combination products, biosimilars and innovative branded generics. This will enable us to better balance risk and timing within our overall portfolio and maximize the value of our pipeline and inline product assets.

To be clear, while Merck's commitment to innovation is unwavering, we are not in a business-as-usual mode when it comes to managing our investments in R&D. Peter Kim, working along with Adam Schechter, Peter Kellogg and me, has been improving the decision processes by which we either commit to or discontinue projects. We are being more aggressive about prioritizing the program and therapeutic areas where we will place our biggest bets. Our decision to return the rights of betrixaban to Portola underscores this disciplined approach.

An example of how we are allocating investments at different points along the risk/reward continuum is our JANUVIA franchise. It now includes approved and investigational combination products, including JANUVIA plus simvastatin, JANUVIA plus pioglitazone and JANUMET XR. By building on our prior innovation, we create the equivalent of launching multiple new products that have a significantly higher probability of success.

Another example is our recent announcement of a new joint venture with Sun Pharma, which capitalizes on the best of the two companies. The JV combines Sun's track record and rapid innovative product development and its outstanding low-cost manufacturing capabilities with Merck's clinical development and registration expertise and broad geographic commercial footprint.

Through the new JV, we plan to develop, manufacture and commercialize differentiated combinations and formulations of branded products for the emerging markets. All of our R&D investments, including those in lifecycle management, have rigorous ROI and NPV hurdles in place. This helps to ensure that the returns justify the investments. Additionally, our companywide internal incentives are directly aligned with the creation of shareholder value.

In addition to actively investing for growth during the quarter, we also made several decisions that I believe illustrate the business and financial discipline we are exercising as we make capital allocation decisions. For example, we discontinued pursuit of the Animal Health joint venture with sanofi-aventis and we reached agreement with Johnson & Johnson regarding marketing rights for REMICADE and SIMPONI. This resolved a major area of uncertainty while retaining approximately 70% of our 2010 revenue from these products.

Of course, while investing for growth, we still have the financial strength to return significant cash to shareholders. Our strong dividend and recently increased share repurchase program show confidence in our business and the balance we strike to provide attractive total shareholder returns.

In closing, we are very pleased with the first-quarter results we reported today. We have demonstrated our ability to advance the pipeline, grow our key brands and leverage the benefits of our expanded and diverse portfolio.

Moving forward with our growth strategy, a companywide focus on innovation, actions to create a more efficient and effective operating model and ongoing cost control measures, we are well-positioned to deliver sustained results and value in the remainder of 2011 and over the long term. Thank you for your attention. I would like to turn the call now over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken and good morning, everyone. It is a pleasure to speak with you today and provide you with an overview of the performance of Global Human Health in the first quarter of 2011.

The year is off to a strong start with reported sales of $9.8 billion. This represents 2% growth compared to the first quarter of 2010, or 6% growth if you exclude the impact of generic COZAAR and HYZAAR. The performance was primarily driven by the double-digit growth of our key brands, including JANUVIA, JANUMET, SINGULAIR, REMICADE, ISENTRESS and NASONEX. And also the solid regional performance in the United States, Japan and the emerging markets.

In all of our markets, we are executing on our commercial growth strategy. Our strategy includes the following -- first, to grow the core; next, to expand the core; and then also accelerate new launches. We will do this while relentlessly focusing on the needs of our customers. I will use this strategy framework for my discussion today.

So first let me discuss growing the core. The first critical part of our growth strategy is to maximize the growth of our key products and our core business in our largest developed markets. That is the core focus. We have to ensure we are supporting these opportunities that provide the foundation for our growth platform.

Let's start with the United States where sales declined 4% year-over-year. If you exclude the impact of COZAAR/HYZAAR, sales increased 2% driven by the diabetes, respiratory and neuroscience franchises. Our vaccine business was largely in line with the previous year once you exclude the impact of CDC stockpiling and customer inventory fluctuations in the first quarter of 2010.

Leveraging our strong commercial presence is paying off in the United States. The United States remains the largest market in the world. There are still significant unmet medical needs and our team is focused on ensuring broad access to our products for patients and physicians. We have a very strong managed care presence and high ratings with pharmacy and medical directors. And we continue to build our relationships with the larger primary care audience, which ranks Merck number one on customer trust and value.

Moving to the EU, sales were down 3% this quarter, excluding the impact of COZAAR/HYZAAR. The sales decline was due to a number of factors. The factors include generic erosion of TEMODAR, the return of SUBUTEX and CAELYX rights and the impact of EU austerity measures, which remains in line with previous guidance. Despite this, we continue to drive the growth of our key brands, including JANUVIA, REMICADE, ISENTRESS and SIMPONI.

The EU remains a core part of our business and we are ensuring we have the right level of resources to take advantage of the unique opportunities in each of these markets.

Now let me highlight some of the brands that make up the core and contributed to the positive performance in the quarter. First, the JANUVIA and JANUMET franchise continued its strong performance with global quarterly sales growing 47% and surpassing the $1 billion in sales for the first time. The franchise is growing in all regions and JANUVIA now has a 24% marketshare in the global branded oral diabetes market.

Regionally, sales increased 23% in the United States and over 50% in the EU. In Japan, demand remained strong and sitagliptin now has a 26% combined marketshare.

Around the world, we saw opportunities to invest in JANUVIA and JANUMET at the country level as a result of the Avandia market event and we moved quickly, we moved decisively in each market where it made sense to do so. These investments are already paying off.

As Ken mentioned, innovative combinations in lifecycle management projects create lower risk growth opportunities to drive our key brands and this has been our strategy for the JANUVIA franchise. If approved, we plan to launch our once-daily version of JANUMET and fixed-dose combinations of JANUVIA with simvastatin in 2011.

Moving now to SINGULAIR, SINGULAIR had a strong quarter as sales grew 14% to $1.3 billion. We are seeing significant growth for SINGULAIR in the emerging markets in Japan where we will have market exclusivity until 2016. SINGULAIR was a key contributor to the 12% growth in our respiratory portfolio this quarter, which benefited also from purchases in advance of the spring allergy season. Looking at the prescription trends in the United States, you can see that the allergy season is off to a slow start. We will continue to monitor that very closely.

REMICADE sales grew 12% in the quarter, led by the strong growth in UC and Crohn's disease indications. We are enthusiastic about the opportunities ahead for REMICADE as we leverage our strong lifecycle management platform. Now that the arbitration is behind us, our teams in Europe, Russia and Turkey can focus on the broad opportunities to improve penetration rates and drive growth for the immunology franchise.

Combined sales of VYTORIN and ZETIA grew 5% in the quarter with growth from all regions, including the United States. The international growth was driven by sales in Japan, 41% growth and the emerging markets with approximately 20% growth. We are encouraged by the volume-driven growth of ZETIA in Japan, as well as other growth in other Asia-Pacific markets. We are looking forward to continuing momentum as we seek to include the Sharp data, which showed a medically important outcome benefit, albeit in a relatively small population, in our approved labels for markets around the world.

Now I would like to briefly discuss expanding the core. A key part of expanding the core strategy is growing our business in the fastest-growing markets, the emerging markets and Japan. Let me start with the emerging markets. The emerging markets grew 10% in the quarter and contributed 18% of our total Global Human Health sales. The growth was driven by the top six markets, which grew 18%. Our performance in China this quarter was strong. Sales grew 40% driven by the respiratory portfolio and diversified brands.

We continue to see a lot of opportunity in the emerging markets and our goal remains to have 25% of our pharmaceutical and vaccine sales coming from these countries by 2013. We are approaching each of these markets differently. Our primary focus is to maximize the more than 150 brands that we already have approved in markets today. Then we look for opportunities to leverage partnerships that give us access to additional customers, products and lifecycle management platforms. Lastly, we look for interbrand opportunities where it makes sense to do so.

So let me mention one of our new partnerships, the formulation of a joint venture with Sun Pharmaceuticals. This is an exciting opportunity for us to partner with a proven leader to introduce incrementally innovative products into the emerging markets and to ultimately give our salesforce additional brands to complement their portfolios.

While we are also expanding the core in Japan, Japan grew 44% in the quarter, or 31% excluding foreign exchange. Sales were driven by strong growth of JANUVIA, NASONEX, SINGULAIR and ZETIA, as well as solid contributions from new launch brands such as BRIDION. Thanks to the extraordinary effort of our team in Japan, patients and physicians had access to our medicines during the devastating natural disaster. There was a slight inventory build of approximately $40 million to $50 million in the quarter and we anticipate inventory will be reduced over time as the supply chain gets back to normal.

Lastly, in expanding our core, we have recently implemented a key initiative we call the Next 10. The Next 10 is designed to help our teams focus on the brands after the top 10 in a given market and to maximize those other brands. It is a very specific call to action to find additional growth opportunities by allocating greater focus and resources beyond the top brands.

As an example, we have just launched the diversified brand salesforces in markets including Brazil, Mexico, Germany and Colombia. We believe the allocation of resources to these brands will provide incremental growth opportunities in these markets and we will closely monitor the success, market by market, around the world.

The third component of our growth strategy is to accelerate new launches. We now have 12 products launching around the world, which together contributed about $300 million to this quarter. I would like to highlight a few key contributors to the top-line growth in the first quarter.

First, SIMPONI sales were $54 million, driven by the strong growth in Germany. As part of the lifecycle management, we received approval for the structural damage claim for SIMPONI, which will help us position against other anti-TNF therapies. We are also planning additional launches of SIMPONI in Europe in 2011 and 2012, including the UK, France, and Portugal.

Another brand that continues to grow is DULERA, our combination treatment for asthma in the US. We are seeing a steady increase in volume growth in DULERA, which now has roughly 2% new Rx marketshare in the combination category.

Two of our neuroscience brands, BRIDION and SAPHRIS, continue to make positive gains, contributing about $65 million to the top line this quarter. We are allocating time and resources to make each of these launch brands as successful as possible. Some may take longer than others, but we are confident that we have the right plans in place and we will support growth opportunities to maximize these brands.

As we think about future launches, we see an opportunity to regain a foothold in the ophthalmology segment with a preservative-free formulation of tafluprost for the reduction of intra-ocular pressure. Tafluprost is marketed outside the US as SAFLUTAN. The NDA was accepted by the FDA in March and we anticipate approval later in 2011. We look for an opportunity to gain critical mass in the commercial organization in this market.

We found that with Inspire Pharmaceuticals. This was a great opportunity to accelerate our launch preparedness and give our teams a greater platform for success. The salesforces from Inspire have strong relationships with existing customers and very good knowledge of the ophthalmology area.

Now let me take a moment to talk about Victrelis, a brand that we look forward to launching soon for the treatment of hepatitis C. We were pleased to receive a positive recommendation from the FDA Advisory Committee this week as the Committee recognized the benefits that Victrelis will have for patients.

I have spent a lot of time with the team to ensure that we are ready for the launch. I am confident that Victrelis will offer an excellent value proposition for both physicians and patients. As Ken mentioned, we spent time with many of the key scientific leaders last month in Germany and we were extremely encouraged by the feedback, especially the positive feedback from physicians who have already had an opportunity to utilize Victrelis in early patient access programs. While I am not going to provide details of our launch strategy, I will tell you this, we are ready to launch.

In summary, we had a strong first quarter and it is clear that we are achieving growth while continuing to improve our cost structure. We will continue to evaluate our resource needs to ensure we are funding the right growth opportunities and cutting costs where possible and appropriate. Our focus in Global Human Health is on delivering top-line revenue growth. We will look forward to updating you on our progress and performance throughout the year. Now I would like to turn it over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP & CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam and good morning. As you heard from Ken and Adam, we had great performance in the first quarter of 2011. We performed well on all fronts. Sales were strong and operating expenses were down across the board in marketing and admin, R&D and product costs. And we grew non-GAAP EPS by double digits. We continue to demonstrate our commitment to driving out inefficiencies in our cost structure while making appropriate investments in growing the top line. My comments today will be about the quarterly performance and how that translates into the rest of the year. So let me start with our results.

To streamline my comments today, I will speak to our non-GAAP results, which exclude purchase accounting adjustments, merger-related costs, restructuring charges, and the one-time arbitration settlement charge that we previously announced. On this basis, we reported strong first-quarter non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.92, 11% growth compared to the same period last year.

Total revenue for the quarter was $11.6 billion, 1% above a year ago. The strong performance of our key brands and launching products offset more than $600 million of headwinds that we experienced in the quarter, including generic erosion, the impact of healthcare reform and continued pressure from EU austerity measures. Excluding just the largest item, the impact of generic COZAAR/HYZAAR, total Company sales were up 5%.

Now let's talk about expenses. This quarter, you can see we reduced our operating expenses by more than $350 million versus the first quarter last year while still making additional investments in emerging markets of over $140 million. The savings this quarter are on top of more than $2 billion in savings we generated through the end of 2010. So you should have no doubt about our commitment to achieve our $3.5 billion synergy target. As Ken mentioned, we have taken smart across-the-board cost control measures that have enabled us to accelerate the realization of these savings.

Our non-GAAP product gross margin of 76.8% was slightly higher compared to a year ago, as well as last year. There are two things contributing to this improved rate -- product mix in the current quarter and manufacturing efficiencies. While the main driver of PGM tends to be product mix, we anticipate that you will see some of the manufacturing efficiency benefit in future quarters.

Now let's talk about marketing and admin. On a non-GAAP basis, marketing and administrative expenses in the quarter were $3.1 billion. As you can see from these results, we achieved cost reductions while also making additional investments in key growth areas such as the 12 products that are currently being launched in major markets and the emerging markets.

Moving on to R&D, research and development expense of $1.8 billion was approximately $200 million lower than last year. Ken described our investment philosophy and how we strive to have a balanced R&D portfolio across the risk and reward continuum. I would like to reiterate that we have rigorous ROI hurdles in making these decisions. In fact, we anticipate that our focus and financial discipline in this area will translate into a slightly lower R&D spend than we had anticipated in early February. As a result, we are reducing our R&D targets for 2011 to a range of $8 billion to $8.4 billion.

Moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 25.5% for the first quarter. However, we continue to anticipate that our full-year non-GAAP rate will be in the 20% to 22% range.

With our balance sheet and cash flow statement for the quarter -- while our balance sheet and cash flow statement for the quarter is not yet realized, we ended the quarter with a strong financial position. We had about $15 billion in cash and investments and roughly $18 billion in debt. As you look forward to Q2, remember that the Inspire purchase price of $430 million and the $500 million arbitration settlement will come from our cash balance.

So in summary, we are off to a great start in 2011 and we are well-positioned to achieve our growth targets for the year, so let me cover those next. I have already touched on our targets for R&D and taxes, so I will now focus on revenues and EPS. We are very pleased to maintain our prior top-line target for 2011. We are confident in our ability to build on the top-line performance that we drove this quarter and overcome the challenges we face this year.

We continue to target low to mid single-digit revenue growth in 2011. Our performance this quarter puts us on the right growth trajectory for the year and we have now lapped the full 12-month impact of the COZAAR/HYZAAR patent expiry as Ken mentioned earlier. In fact, Merck has maintained the top line through the loss of several major patent expiries over the last five years -- ZOCOR, FOSAMAX, and now COZAAR/HYZAAR. In an industry where investors worry about patent expiries, and ask the question can pharma companies replace their lost revenue, Merck has now done it three times in a row.

On the bottom line, our new non-GAAP EPS range of $3.66 to $3.76 raises the midpoint of the range to $3.71. This guidance reflects our new R&D range and absorbs the $0.08 to $0.09 EPS impact from the arbitration settlement in the second half of the year. This quarter's strong performance and the focused steps we have taken to grow the top line and achieve continued cost savings have positioned us well to achieve our sales and EPS targets. The new 2011 GAAP EPS target range of $2.04 to $2.39 also reflects the new R&D guidance and in includes, among other items, the entire impact of the arbitration settlement.

Given the strength of our results and our expectations for strong free cash flow, earlier this week, we announced the Board authorization of a $5 billion stock buyback program. This is in addition to the $1.4 billion we had remaining under the current authorization. This authorization is consistent with our intent to remain one of the best pharma companies in terms of cash distribution to shareholders.

Last year, we bought approximately $1.6 billion in treasury shares. This demonstrates our desire to actively buy back shares at the right time and at the right market conditions. In fact, over the past five years, we have returned greater than 85% of free cash flows to shareholders. Only one other pharma company can claim this.

Over the same five-year period, we have been in the top third of our peers in terms of dividend payout ratio. In 2010 alone, we returned $6.3 billion to shareholders. We have done this while continuing to invest in key growth drivers and maintaining a sound capital structure and an appropriate credit rating. This authorization of $5 billion should confirm that Merck is confident in our strategy and accordingly has taken this action.

So in summary, we are very pleased to kick off 2011 with such a strong performance. Growth on the top line despite many challenges, double-digit growth on the bottom line. Advancing the late stage pipeline with five products under regulatory review, increasing investment in key growth areas such as emerging markets and our 12 product launches, making strategic deals in support of future growth such as Sun Pharma and Inspire, while also demonstrating the financial discipline to only make investments that meet our rigorous prioritization and financial criteria. We are confident in making thoughtful resource allocation decisions to drive future growth and at the same time maintaining our history of returning cash to shareholders.

Thank you. Now I will turn the call back to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter. Now we would like to open up the call to take your questions. In order to help us get through as many callers as possible, we would like to ask you to limit yourself to one or two questions and we will not take any follow-up questions. If you do have additional questions, you are always welcome to rejoin the queue.

Operator, we are ready for the Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Gregg Gilbert, Merrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, good morning, team. I have two; I will ask them upfront. First for Ken, you mentioned that Animal Health and Consumer are core to the strategy. Just curious how you ensure that each business gets the management attention, the internal funding, as well as access the business development capital that they require.

And secondly on boceprevir, I know you said you seem very ready or you said you are ready to launch, but would it be reasonable to expect at least a 90-day delay based on the data on drug/drug interactions that you just recently provided the agency? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, on the first question, again, I feel that we have great assets in both Animal Health and Consumer Care, as I mentioned, that complement our Human Health business and to help contribute to our top line and bottom-line growth objectives. From the standpoint of focus and resources and management oversight, we see these businesses as being very complementary to what we are doing. We have strong leaders in both businesses. We are developing the right kinds of plans going forward to ensure that those businesses can contribute to Merck in the right way, subject to the way we run the entire business, which is to have strong growth on both the top line and the bottom line. So we are pleased to have those businesses.

I will turn the boceprevir question over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: For boceprevir, we believe that we have completed the studies required for approval, and we anticipate to launch in May.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks very much. Just had a couple of questions on capital deployment priorities, now that we are about 18 months post the Schering deal. I guess first, how should we think -- or should we think about Merck's net debt levels remaining near current levels over time?

Second, on business development, obviously you saw the Inspire deal this quarter, but what is Merck's interest in larger transactions that would bring in-market assets to the Company?

Then finally, why not a higher dividend versus share repo as a cash flow return vehicle at these points? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Let me start by talking about the overall strategy we have for capital deployment. As we have said all along, we believe that what is important for us is to focus on driving total shareholder return and to provide attractive total shareholder return. So for us, that means when we are in the business development field, we want to look for those assets that will complement our franchises and help drive our business over the long term, but we are only going to be disciplined in how we use capital to go after business development opportunities.

For example, in the emerging markets, I think we have shown that approach to how we are going to grow our business. We are going to look for the kinds of partnerships that actually are beneficial to our business in the long run. We are not going to overspend. So we are going to be disciplined in spending.

As it relates to the dividend and the share repurchase, I would just say before turning it over to Peter, we think we have a strong dividend right now. We also think that this increase in the share repurchase program signals that we have confidence in our business going forward. So we have a history of being shareholder-friendly returning cash to shareholders and we are going to continue with that. Peter?

PETER KELLOGG: Yes, thanks. I would reiterate actually what Ken just said. There is no question that we have an absolute desire to be as shareholder-friendly as possible. We see returning cash to shareholders as part of the formula of total shareholder returns and we certainly appreciate how important that is.

We do look at our net cash/net debt level over time and so we do forecast that out. We don't give guidance on it obviously, but we have been very focused on returning a lot of the cash that we do generate to shareholders. And I think that's certainly evident in some of the facts and perspective that I provided during my discussion.

Relative to the dividend versus the share repurchase, obviously, that is a trade-off that we think about. At this point, we think, as we look at the opportunity to create shareholder value, we felt that the share repurchase was a great opportunity. That is not to discount any other options for the future.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Ken, question for you. Your definitive statements about the importance of Consumer Health and Animal -- Consumer and Animal Health does suggest that you would not consider strategic alternatives for this business. And I think at our conference in January you had signaled that, for Consumer, which is primarily a domestic business don't have scale, that this would be a business that you might consider for future strategic activity, i.e. spinoff or make future acquisitions. So I am wondering if you can talk about that a bit more. And also, Peter, if you can give us a sense of the timing of when you might take advantage of your $5 billion buyback program. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Thanks for your questions, Jami. Let me just say that we are pleased with the assets that we have because we believe they complement our Human Health business. As we go forward, we will be looking for opportunities to grow our presence in the Consumer space if that is what we believe will create long-term shareholder value.

But strategy has multiple dimensions and what I am saying is that we think these businesses are good, they provide us with, in effect, buffers on some of the issues that I think that the core pharma business provides us while helping us to grow right now. We like the fact that we are seeing 6% growth in Consumer, 7% growth in Animal Health and going forward, we are just going to have to look at those to figure out how those assets can help us maximize shareholder return and I am not ruling anything out. I didn't mean to rule anything out. I am simply saying that we like those businesses and they are performing well as a part of our portfolio.

Again, I will report that Consumer Health is tied directly to Global Human Health, particularly in the emerging markets where we use the same channels, we reach the same patients, if you will. So we like those businesses and we will continue to look at how the entire portfolio can perform to maximize shareholder value.

PETER KELLOGG: Great. So Jami, on the second part about the share repurchase timing, we don't obviously give guidance relative to when we will be in the market and so forth. I would highlight that, last year, our purchases of $1.6 billion were done primarily in the second and third quarter and then just due to a variety of factors, the earnings time schedule, vorapaxar news and the J&J settlement, we've actually been blocked out of the market from being able to go into the market for quite some time, a number of months. So I think going forward, we will see some windows and we will see what we do. But we really don't forecast going forward.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, thanks very much. Two questions. The first for Adam, could I get you to flesh out the Sun Pharma relationship? For example, is this relationship in all emerging markets? What is the exact brand or subsidiary brand? Is it a Sun pill or product or is it a Merck product? And how do you think about the salesforce? Do Merck reps or specialty reps market Sun products or is this all just within one bag and both companies are marketing each other? And then one follow-up please.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, Tony, if you look at Sun Pharma, we have spent a lot of time with the companies working together and we are taking a look at all the potential opportunities for novel innovative combinations and formulations. And we have quite a long list of potential possibilities.

What we are now doing is we are going to put a general manager in charge of that joint venture. The general manager will work with the Board that is made up of equal employees from both Merck and from Sun Pharma. The general manager will come with a recommendation on the priority of the different opportunities that we have that will be based upon how quickly we can get them to market, what the probability of success is, what the market needs are and how these products will meet those market needs. So ultimately, the revenue potential of the products.

We anticipate that the formulation work, the low-cost manufacturing work will be with Sun Pharma. The commercialization will be done by Merck and we would look to launch those products in whatever emerging markets we believe there would be significant opportunity in for each of those products. We would use the regulatory capabilities in those markets from Merck.

So there is still a lot of work for us to do to go and make sure that we have got it all washed out. This deal is for all the emerging markets with the exception of India and we don't have the exact product list. We are going to wait for the general manager to make the recommendation. So there is still work for us to do there, but we are very excited about this opportunity because we believe it gives us the capabilities and the opportunities to bring novel innovative branded generics to these markets, which we think are going to help with the innovation platform that we are launching in the emerging markets.

KEN FRAZIER: Yes, I would just underscore Adam's last point. We have always been focused as a company on innovation and differentiation. We want to participate up and down the segment through the markets, in the emerging markets, but we want to play to our strength as a company and that is really around science and innovation and differentiation. And that is why we have entered into this agreement with Sun Pharma. We think they are able to help us develop a brand, a line of brands that actually meet the Merck standard when it comes to patient value, innovation and differentiation.

TONY BUTLER: Thanks very much for that commentary. And then as my follow-up, Ken, you made a great deal of -- or you created a great deal of discussion around making decisions and one of the decisions that you and Merck made was to give back an asset to Portola in a therapeutic area that one could argue is potentially quite large. So the question is is there some consideration to either engage in a later-stage asset in that same therapeutic area or maybe enter into an agreement with an unencumbered asset that may even be more later stage or even on the market or is Merck just simply saying this was a large cardiovascular area that we just therapeutically and scientifically missed? Thanks very much.

KEN FRAZIER: So the decision that was made about betrixaban really reflected, as I said, our approach to looking at the high ROI and NPV hurdles that we think we want to have before we go ahead and make big bets. Going forward, in this area, as well as all other areas, we are really focused on finding the best science available externally, bringing it into Merck and being able to work with molecules and in partnership with other companies to drive growth going forward.

So I would say it wouldn't just be an issue around Factor Xa, it is a factor about each one of our franchises and our franchise leaders both on the commercial side and the scientific side are actually charged with bringing in the best external science.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITI: Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the quarter. First question for you, Ken. I think in your previous press release, you -- at least on the J&J arbitration, you had indicated that you would retain the assets, but you had to give up 30% of the sales and I think you indicated $0.08 to $0.09 of earnings. Can you articulate why you had to give up 30% and why, within the negotiation, you felt compelled to do that?

And then for Adam, on emerging markets, you had a target of 25% that you wanted to hit at a specific timeframe. The 30% that you give up, obviously, was largely in emerging markets. Are you still reiterating that target of 25% in emerging markets? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: So I will start with the J&J question, John. I think that we had a strong position going into that arbitration. I think the 70/30 split reflects that we had a strong position and as to why we ended up where we ended up here, it was because both parties agreed that given the merits of the case, this would be a good place for the two parties to come out and remove all the uncertainty that exists in any arbitration proceeding.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And to answer the question regarding emerging markets, we are committed to a target of 25% in 2013 and if you look at the emerging markets and the strong growth that I mentioned, for example, China up 40%, we never had REMICADE or SIMPONI in China. We also retained Russia and Turkey. So overall, the performance in emerging markets is very strong. We believe there is very significant opportunity and we continue to reinforce the 25% that we said before.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you. My guess is you're going to resist answering this, but I'm hoping you can share your thoughts. On R&D spending, if you could potentially keep it flat or slightly down in 2011, is it possible that R&D spend might contract further beyond 2011? I am just looking for a directional answer on this.

On SINGULAIR, is it possible you might be able to take that product over the counter as part of a lifecycle management strategy? And then on betrixaban, going back to Tony's question asked a different way, are there still creative ways that Merck might be able to enter this oral anticoagulant market in a reasonable timeframe?

ALEX KELLY: Ken, do you want to start with the R&D?

KEN FRAZIER: Yes, on the R&D question, I would say that, as I have tried to say all along, the R&D spending that you see at this time in Merck is a function of the assets that we have at various stages of development in the pipeline. I don't think you should consider it to be a number going forward. I think it will all depend on what we have. We are pleased to have the assets that we have in late-stage development inside our Company. And going forward, we are going to be looking for ways to produce efficiencies in our R&D, including prioritization decisions. We have been reducing the number of R&D sites. So we are committed to ensuring that whatever we spend on R&D going forward is about quality not about quantity.

So we have no dogma about an $8 billion spend in R&D. It is really about making sure that we maximize the assets because we are committed to grow long term and we believe that R&D is the predominant driver of long-term growth in this industry.

On the SINGULAIR OTC issue, I'll turn it over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER: Yes, first, I'd start by saying -- I mentioned with SINGULAIR that we think there is tremendous opportunities in Japan and also the emerging markets. We expect there to continue to be strong growth even after the patent expiry in the United States and Europe. We look at the possibility of all of our Rx brands to go OTC and we always evaluate and look at those opportunities and of course, we will do the same with SINGULAIR.

KEN FRAZIER: And I'm sorry. I know your last question was on betrixaban, Tim, I seem to have not remembered it exactly.

TIM ANDERSON: Yes, yes. The question was are there creative ways that Merck might be able to enter the novel oral anticoagulant market in a reasonable timeframe?

KEN FRAZIER: So as I just said a few minutes ago, we are looking at opportunities across a broad spectrum of therapeutic areas. If we find opportunities that we believe provide value for us to enter into that space or any other space in which we have actually determined we want to be a party going forward, we will look for those opportunities.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. A couple of questions. First, you obviously had a very strong quarter, which is analyzing at 368. The midpoint of your annual guidance is 370. So I am just wondering if we should take away that your guidance is quite conservative given your projection for accelerating sales growth over the course of the year or are you expecting results to weaken in the second half after a seasonally strong second quarter due to the REMICADE and SIMPONI step-down?

And then second, the betrixaban cancellation, obviously, is going to help lower R&D costs, but I was just wondering about that decision, whether you were aware that rivaroxaban was going to have a bleeding issue in the MAGELLAN trial before you dropped it shortly before that release? Thank you.

PETER KELLOGG: Hi, this is Peter. Let me take the first part. So yes, we did have a strong first quarter. I think as we commented, we do anticipate about an $0.08 to $0.09 impact in the second half of the year from the arbitration settlement. So I think if we factor that in then I think the guidance probably makes a lot of sense.

And I would remind you also that, in the second half of the year as we go through the balance of the year, we are going to be investing against some very important launches that we intend to plan to win or play to win for. So I think our guidance right now reflects what we think is a realistic range of outcomes for the year and we feel very good quite frankly about how we got started this quarter. We made a real focus on getting a fast start this year and we are very happy to be able to hold the top-line and bottom-line guidance and in fact, despite the arbitration, the impact actually increased the midpoint of our bottom-line guidance range. So we are feeling very good about kind of the total package at this point from the guidance standpoint.

KEN FRAZIER: On the last question on betrixaban, I won't comment specifically on the specific decision. I will say that we looked at the totality of public information about the various molecules in the space and decided that it was not going to meet our ROI standards to enter into the sort of large-scale study that we thought we would be required to enter into.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN & CO.: Thank you, I have two questions. Will CORDAPTIVE be refilable in 2012 even if the HPS2-THRIVE trial does not achieve its efficacy endpoint given that the FDA questions are related to safety or will CORDAPTIVE not be an opportunity in the US should HPS2-THRIVE not achieve its endpoint? So that is the first question.

And the second question is can you remind me whether the $3.5 billion in cost savings should be viewed on a net or gross basis? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: So I will say that we intend to file CORDAPTIVE/TREDAPTIVE in the United States in 2012. That is our intention and I think that is what our expectation is going forward.

On the synergies, we have said that we intend to achieve the $3.5 billion in net synergies going forward. We are focused on that, but as I tried to say early on, our ambitions go even well beyond that in terms of how do we position this Company to have a model that will be successful in a tough future environment.

So we are committed to achieving the $3.5 billion in annual cost synergies by 2012, as we said, but we are also looking at having the right kind of model going forward to allow us to succeed long into the future.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, first question is, Peter, can you talk about the tax rate a little bit, just what was going on this quarter and how we should think about it on a quarterly basis the rest of the year? And then the second question is can you give us an update on vaccines, what was unusual in the quarter and what we can expect kind of to play back? It's a little unusual as far as the lumpiness quarterly over the rest of the year. Thanks.

PETER KELLOGG: This is Peter. So first, on the tax rate, I think you have got it exactly right. In other words, the first quarter, we highlighted that we had a couple of discrete items and sometimes, as you know, you have basically your whole tax structure and the tax rate is sort of running on a full-year basis and then from time to time, you have discrete items that hit in a particular or single quarter. So in this quarter, we had a couple of items that pushed our non-GAAP tax rate up to 25.5%, but we are comfortable as we look forward on a full-year basis seeing the rate end up at about its guidance range.

In terms of how that plays out quarter-by-quarter, I don't want to break it down specifically, but I think that, in general, you should see, based on that guidance, you should see it being lower than 25.5% as we go forward quarter-to-quarter for sure.

In terms of vaccines, Ken, do you want to take that?

KEN FRAZIER: Sure. So as you know, we continue to experience intermittent backorders with respect to ZOSTAVAX. We were able to make some shipments in the last couple of weeks for orders placed in February. We expect to have additional shipments in May, June for orders that were placed. From April 18 or later, we expect to ship things in August. So we are an intermittent backorder situation.

I think with respect to vaccines overall, if you strip out ZOSTA supply and you strip out the buy-in that we had last year, we performed pretty much on plan.

ALEX KELLY: Good. Next question please?

OPERATOR: Michael Tong, Wells Fargo Securities.

MICHAEL TONG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Hi, good morning. First question for Ken. You devoted quite a bit of time talking about risk diversification in your R&D bucket. So if I could get your color on at least what you are looking at at different ROIs for your different R&D buckets, namely branded generics, biosimilars, newer products or fixed combos.

And then the second question for Adam, as you get ready to launch boceprevir, what is your message to clinicians to encourage adoption into what at least to me seems a bit more complicated dosing regimen than the competitor product? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: So on the first question, I can speak to it generally. I think if you look at the history of Merck, we have been really good at first-in-class innovative products. That has been our history, but we think that is sort of at the high-risk end of the spectrum. It is also at a high reward part of the spectrum.

So what we have tried to do is we have thought about our research strategy is to have specific programs that go first-in-class, that focus on best-in-class, lifecycle management in terms of new indications, biosimilars, new combinations, formulations and in the emerging markets what we call differentiated branded generics. Now they all, I think, have a different probability of success. They have a different level of investment that is required and what we want to do is we want to be able to spread our risk across that spectrum and be able to participate in all those segments of the market.

PETER KELLOGG: I would add I think that in all those areas, we hold the same standard that the return on investment ought to be positive. All of these actually had a nice return on investment profile. Obviously, as Ken said, some have different POSs or different commercial rollouts, but in general, we shoot for strong returns in all those areas.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And Michael, with regard to boceprevir, the first thing I would say is we know this market, we have been in this market for quite some time. We know the physicians, we have worked with these physicians for quite some time. I don't want to give the specifics of our strategy right now. I am sure our competition would love to hear that, but I really do look forward to talking about our strategy and talking about how we are implementing that strategy once the product is approved.

ALEX KELLY: Operator, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thanks very much for the question. Just a couple of things, this is for Peter. Maybe you can just remind us how you are dealing with the accounting on the Inspire acquisition and whether or not that is in non-GAAP guidance.

The second question is for Ken and Adam. As you think about the Consumer business, and Tim's question on SINGULAIR OTC, how can you -- I guess what I am a little bit wondering is how can you ringfence the former Schering Consumer business from the J&J joint venture so that you can effectively execute or how have you effectively executed any business development transactions? And then can you just give us an update on your timing expectations, if any, for vaccine manufacturing coming back online so you can execute a full launch of ZOSTAVAX? Thanks a lot.

ALEX KELLY: Ken, do you want to start that?

KEN FRAZIER: Yes, we don't publicly discuss the terms of our J&J agreement around Consumer products. I will say that we like the Consumer business that we have. We see opportunities again to have it complement what we are doing in our Human Health business and that is about all that I can say right now. I will turn it over to Peter.

PETER KELLOGG: So relative to the Inspire acquisition, obviously, that hasn't closed yet, but it has been announced, we will use our normal protocol. So the specific purchase accounting elements we would exclude from our non-GAAP performance, but, obviously, all the operational, elements all the ongoing business expenses and trends of that business would be part of our ongoing business.

ADAM SCHECHTER: And with regard to ZOSTAVAX, I can tell you we are working our -- our manufacturing team is working very hard on that. We have made some shipments in the last two weeks of April for orders that were placed back in February. We are expecting to have some more shipments in May and June, but we are going to continue to be in backorder situations intermittently. So we don't have an exact timing for that to be fully resolved.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ: I guess just as a quick follow-up, the timing I guess that had previously been disclosed may have been the back half of this year for North Carolina coming online. Can you just maybe update us on any views along the lines of when the North Carolina facility will come online?

KEN FRAZIER: I will remind you that the North Carolina facility is a fill and finish operation at this point. It is not ready for bulk. We hope to get the bulk supply through that facility later.

Let me just say again in closing I want to thank you all for your participation this morning, as well as your important questions. If you have further questions, I encourage you to reach out directly to Alex or any member of our Investor Relations team.

As we move ahead, we really look forward to updating you on our progress in executing our growth strategy and our plans to deliver shareholder returned through the continued progression of our pipeline and the continued growth of our products. We are very much committed to growth and we think we are off to a terrific start in the first quarter and I look forward to speaking with you in the future. Thank you very much.

ALEX KELLY: Thank you and goodbye, everyone.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp | schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
i2575 : Respiratory/Allergy Treatments | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | idrugty : Drugs/Medication
   NS
ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | c184 : Joint Ventures | cbrand : Branding | cappro : New Product Approvals | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | c22 : New Products/Services | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110513e74t005k1
  


 HD
 Q4  2010  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,055 words
   PD
3 February 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's fourth-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Alex Kelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

ALEX KELLY, SVP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Brooke, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to Merck's 2010 fourth-quarter and full-year conference call.

   TD
Before I turn the call over to Ken Frazier, I want to point out a couple of things this morning.

First, there are a number of items in the GAAP results such as purchase accounting adjustments, merger-related expenses, restructuring costs and other charges, and we have excluded those items in our non-GAAP results. You can find our non-GAAP reconciliation tables in our press release and also in our financial supplement, so you get a better sense of the underlying performance.

Next, we've also provided tables to help you understand the revenue trends. There are three tables in the press release. Table 1 is the GAAP results; Table 2 is a reconciliation of our GAAP P&L to our non-GAAP P&L for the fourth quarter and year-to-date period; Table 3 is a supplemental non-GAAP table which provides the sales performance for the Company, the business units and the products. During the call, we will refer mostly to Tables 2 and 3, so you might want to have those available.

Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call might be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs of management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. You can see in our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2009 10-K, certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we make today. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. And, as always, you can see our website for the SEC filing.

This morning I am joined by Ken Frazier, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Schechter, our President of Global Human Health; and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer.

Now I would like to introduce Ken Frazier.

KEN FRAZIER, CEO & PRESIDENT, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex, and good morning, everyone. I am pleased that the hard work and consistent focus of my colleagues at Merck produced such strong results for the fourth quarter. These results were achieved in the midst of a tough external environment, coupled with ongoing merger integration activities around the world.

Merck's resilient performance was a great finish for our first year of combined operations following the merger and provides us with good business momentum going forward.

Before moving on to the results, I want to take this opportunity to thank Dick Clark for his practical and principled leadership as CEO during the past five years. Dick steadily steered this Company through a very challenging, and his legacy is a stronger and better Merck. Under Dick's leadership, Merck brought forth great medical innovations such as JANUVIA, ISENTRESS, GARDASIL, ROTATEQ and ZOSTAVAX; broadened its innovative platform by merging with Schering-Plough; and produced a strong track record of value creation for Merck's shareholders. I am honored to succeed Dick as CEO and to have the opportunity, along with Merck's senior management team, to lead the Company into the future.

Now let me turn to our fourth-quarter earnings. This morning we reported a high quality quarter characterized by strong revenue performance of $12 billion, significant cost reductions and double-digit earnings growth. Driving our revenue performance, SINGULAIR, JANUVIA, JANUMET, REMICADE, and ISENTRESS grew a combined 15% on a year-over-year basis.

In addition, our Animal Health portfolio grew 7%, and our Consumer Care business grew 8%. Our results clearly demonstrate the benefits of the post-merger Merck. We believe Merck is uniquely positioned to drive customer innovation, to grow our business globally and to create shareholder value over the long term.

Looking back on 2010, I hope you will agree that we accomplished a great deal in bringing together two exceptional companies. As you know, many mergers struggle because they lose sales momentum after the transaction is complete. We did not. We integrated our commercial operations quickly and maintained sales momentum despite significant resource reductions in the more developed markets and the loss of marketing exclusivity for COZAAR/HYZAAR. We remained focused on delivering our late stage pipeline, and over the course of 2010, we completed the prioritization of our combined R&D portfolio to give Merck one of the industry's best pipelines with more than 20 candidates in late stage development.

As part of that process, we removed 13 projects in Phases II or III.

Additionally we are more sharply focusing our R&D spending on a narrower group of therapeutic areas where we have the greatest likelihood to differentiate Merck to also those areas where we can beat the competition and capitalize on significant future commercial opportunities.

We generated four new drug approvals in a year where drug approvals were hard to come by, including DULERA in the US and BRINAVESS, ELONVA and SYCREST in the EU, and we launched DAXAS in the EU.

In addition, we filed important new drug applications in the fourth quarter, including boceprevir for hepatitis C and once daily JANUMET XR. While the recent news regarding the clinical studies of vorapaxar raises questions about the compound and has reduced expectations, we need to wait for the data and see what they tell us.

As you know, despite all the advances that have been made, cardiovascular disease remains the world's leading killer. Addressing serious unmet medical needs is what Merck is all about.

Boceprevir is a great example of a novel drug candidate from our labs that could meet a significant unmet need in the treatment of hepatitis C with millions of patients worldwide waiting for new therapies, and that is why we remain committed to pursuing innovative R&D programs.

Finally, we exceeded our 2010 cost synergy goals through streamlining operations, building more efficient and scalable companywide systems, and outsourcing non-core work. But we are by no means done, and we will continue our sharp focus on reducing costs.

Last May we told you about our strategy to drive growth in the emerging markets. Throughout 2010 we have been launching new products in key markets and expanding important relationships in existing and new markets around the world. Last year we dramatically increased our investment in China and other key emerging markets, and we will be making additional investments in these markets in 2011 and beyond to drive growth. And, as Adam will describe in a few moments, these investments are already beginning to pay off.

So, as we close the book on 2010 and emerge from a year of maximum disruption due to integration, we stand ready to face the challenges of 2011 from a stronger position, and we believe that we can sustain and build on the top-line momentum that we achieved in the fourth quarter.

But make no mistake, the macroeconomic challenges of 2010 are continuing into 2011, and some will get even more difficult, including increased European austerity measures and higher than anticipated US healthcare reform costs.

On the other hand, across our expanded product base, our launch opportunities and expanded geographic reach, there are some key areas where we believe additional investment can drive even more revenue growth. These include further investments in lifecycle management in the emerging markets in Japan, fully supporting launch activities globally, appropriately investing in the growth of brands beyond our top brands, and investing in Consumer Care and Merck BioVentures.

We will also be pursuing partnerships through business development and licensing activities and new joint ventures to gain access to innovations, to strengthen our geographic footprint, particularly in the emerging markets, and to expand our ability to meet the needs of our customers.

Another key investment is our Phase III pipeline. For many of our late stage candidates, we are conducting large outcomes studies. The fact is that these outcomes datas will demonstrate the value of our new medicines to governments and private payers and ultimately help fuel long-term growth for Merck.

So, as you can see, although we are in a dynamic environment, we also have many growth opportunities at hand. In 2010 our objective was to maintain portfolio momentum as we merged and cut significant costs.

In 2011 we intend to grow the top line, exceeding current expectations, which are essentially flat. In fact, our plan is to accelerate revenue growth and EPS growth with anticipated top-line growth in the low to mid-single digit range and bottom-line growth in the high single digits. To drive the top-line, we will invest wisely in the best growth opportunities within our portfolio. These investments are important to our future and offer potential value for our shareholders and our customers.

At the same time, we will continue to accelerate our efforts to drive out inefficiencies in operations and optimize cash flow. This brings us to the strategic question of how much profitable growth we can expect to achieve over time and how we will make the right investment decisions to get there.

Given the realities of the external environment, including European austerity and pricing pressures around the world, US healthcare reform and our recent vorapaxar news, it is clear that the only way to achieve our 2013 EPS target would be through deeper, short-term-oriented cost-cutting.

That would result in significant underinvestment in our longer term growth prospects and could limit our ability to pursue external opportunities. Instead I have decided that investing in our growth is the best long-term strategy for the business and our shareholders. As a result, we are withdrawing our 2013 EPS target.

I want to emphasize to you that I did not take this decision lightly, and I hope I have been clear in explaining strategic rationale behind this decision. Our goal and my responsibility is to position Merck for the strongest possible long-term growth profile, and I firmly believe the approach we are taking is the best way to get there.

However, I also want to underscore that we will continue our relentless focus on reducing costs, while not jeopardizing our long-term growth.

So what is our thinking about the longer-term? Looking beyond 2011, we will be focused on driving top-line growth, appropriately sizing our cost structure and delivering strong bottom-line growth. Our ambition is to drive growth and increase cash flow. As you know, Merck has a strong record of returning cash to shareholders. In fact, since 2005 we have returned about 90% of free cash flow to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. During 2010 we repurchased $1.6 billion worth of our stock. We believe that positions us very strongly in comparison with the repurchases made by our US pharma peers.

Our remaining repurchased authorization is one potential vehicle for returning cash to shareholders. Going forward we will continue to evaluate regularly our opportunities to return cash to shareholders.

While the challenges we face are real, so are the opportunities, and I'm confident that Merck can and will navigate this dynamic period and remain a leader in healthcare. Looking back on Merck in 2010, I see a company that delivered strong results while completing challenging merger plans, increasing its pace and momentum throughout the year and ending it well positioned for success.

Looking ahead, I see a Merck focused on delivering sustainable, profitable growth. Our employees in markets all over the world are energized and excited about capitalizing on the many new and ongoing opportunities we have to bring value to patients, customers and shareholders.

Thank you for your attention, and now I will turn the call over to Adam.

ADAM SCHECHTER, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken, and good morning, everyone. It is a pleasure to speak with you about our performance in the fourth quarter and the first full year following the merger. It was a transformational year for the Company, and we are pleased that we were able to accomplish many of our goals, including the integration of our commercial teams in over 90% of our markets, the implementation of the new commercial model across the combined organization, and the execution of our portfolio strategy.

As I assumed my current role, my priorities included finalizing the integration, ensuring we kept the momentum of our business, and pulling through the strategy that we developed following the merger. I am pleased to say that we were able to continue the momentum in our Global Human Health business and recorded sales of $10.6 billion. This represents growth of 3% on a supplemental combined non-GAAP basis, excluding the impact of genetic COZAAR and HYZAAR. Our commercial performance this quarter was characterized by the following -- strong growth in the emerging markets in Japan, strong performance of our top-selling brands, and solid contributions from new product launches.

The performance in our top-line is just part of the evidence that our merger is working. With a much broader global footprint, we have been able to allocate our resources and find opportunities to accelerate our business in key markets. We have been able to do that despite some of the economic challenges in the developed markets. With our broader portfolio, we have been able to become even more relevant to our customers.

A key example is the emerging markets. We have a ready heard from Ken that we will continue to make significant but disciplined long-term investments in the business. Emerging market sales in the fourth quarter increased 19% with strong performance in key markets like China, Turkey and Korea. There are a lot of significant opportunities for Merck as we see that our business fits well with the needs of the emerging markets. These countries are important growth drivers now and will continue to be in the future. We are working directly with our teams in the local markets to ensure they have the right level of resources to meet our long-term goals, and we are confident that we have the right people and we have the right products to meet our growth targets.

Another market we continue to experience strong growth in is Japan. In Japan sales increased 14%, largely driven by the strength of our new product launches, most notably JANUVIA, the continued success of in-line brands such as SINGULAIR and ZETIA, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange. In addition to JANUVIA, we are also seeing solid growth from our other brands that are launching such as BRIDION and COZAAR. We are laying down a foundation of strong launches in Japan which will support us as we prepare to market and launch other brands like GARDASIL and ROTATEQ in 2011.

Turning to the EU, sales were lower this quarter due to the loss of exclusivity for COZAAR and HYZAAR. While the environment in the EU remains challenging, we are seeing strong volume growth from our key brands, and we are working to ensure that we allocate the right amount of resources for the opportunities that remain in these markets.

In the United States, sales were flat in the fourth quarter if you exclude the impact of generic COZAAR and HYZAAR. While we are not satisfied, there are certainly things that give us confidence in how our team performed in the US. First, we continue to drive strong growth in several key brands such as ISENTRESS, JANUVIA and JANUMET. Second, we are getting solid contributions from brands in our respiratory, women's health and oncology products. And lastly, we were able to maintain the top-line while significantly reducing resources, including the sales force.

In 2011 we will continue our launch efforts to support DULERA and SAPHRIS in the United States. We see opportunities to grow these brands in the market, and we will continue to allocate appropriate resources to drive growth.

Now turning to our portfolio performance, as you review Table 3, which provides the supplemental combined non-GAAP results, you will see that product sales were once again driven by the robust growth of our key brands -- SINGULAIR, JANUVIA, JANUMET, REMICADE and ISENTRESS. These brands grew a combined 15% year over year and are great examples of how differentiated products that provide a strong value proposition to the market can continue to be successful.

In 2010 we were very focused on sustaining the momentum of these brands, and we will do the same in 2011. But our focus in 2011 will expand beyond these key products to other brands, other brands that we believe can grow over the long term. The brands will vary by market, but we believe they will benefit from greater focus and greater resources.

Now starting with our respiratory portfolio, which grew 5% compared to the previous year. As the second largest respiratory company in the world, we are seeing the benefits of our portfolio strategy. In the US representatives are gaining better access to customers and are capturing a greater share of voice in the market. This is a critical factor for the success as we continue to launch DULERA. Improved access gives our representatives an opportunity to differentiate DULERA against more established brands.

As of January 1, DULERA has greater than 70% unrestricted managed care access. Outside the United States, our respiratory portfolio strategy is helping us exceed market growth rates in countries like Japan, France and Mexico.

Turning to the JANUVIA and JANUMET franchise, which continued its strong performance in the fourth quarter, overall global revenue grew 27% for the franchise. In the US we continue to gain market share in the oral diabetic market as we benefit from the recent regulatory actions for AVANDIA and also focus on high prescribers of sulfonylureas.

Our growth in the EU is primarily driven by the launch of new indications and the ongoing launches of JANUMET. In December the two-week prescription limitation for JANUVIA was lifted in Japan, and we are seeing continued strong demand for Sitagliptin, which now has a combined market share of about 17%. We now have a market leadership position in Japan in addition to the rest of Asia-Pacific region. Globally we know it is important to expand the value of the JANUVIA brand. That is why we have a strong lifecycle management program in place. Our once daily version of JANUMET was recently accepted by the FDA, and we have other fixed dose combinations in the pipeline.

Moving to our immunology portfolio, which had another strong quarter, REMICADE sales grew 12%, and SIMPONI sales increased to $42 million as we continued to roll out SIMPONI to additional markets. We have worked hard to establish the complementary positioning of REMICADE and SIMPONI, and so far we have been able to greatly limit the cannibalization of REMICADE. We continue to be focused on improving access for SIMPONI and are preparing for the upcoming launches in France and the UK in 2011.

For VYTORIN and ZETIA, franchise sales were flat this quarter as we continued to see signs of stabilization in the US and strong volume growth outside the US, especially in Japan where sales of ZETIA grew 30% in the fourth quarter.

We were pleased to see the results of the SHARP study, which showed that VYTORIN reduced the risk of major cardiovascular events in patients with chronic kidney disease. We plan to submit this data to regulatory authorities in the first half of 2011.

Shifting to the vaccine business, which grew slightly in the fourth quarter but remains challenged by supply issues. First, GARDASIL sales were $221 million, which was a decline from the prior year, primarily due to government stockpile purchases in the fourth quarter of 2009. GARDASIL continues to maintain greater than a 95% market share in the US and approximately 75% marketshare globally. Sales of ROTATEQ increased 25%, driven mostly by the replenishment of government stockpiles in the fourth quarter. Sales of ZOSTAVAX were $107 million this quarter, which was driven by the availability of supply as we were able to clear a significant number of backorders. Sales in the first quarter of 2011 will be lower as we remain in a backorder situation.

Moving to ISENTRESS, which had another solid quarter performance, worldwide sales grew 34%, driven by volume growth as physicians are utilizing ISENTRESS earlier in the treatment regimen. We remain confident that ISENTRESS will maintain its strong position and continue to grow in 2011.

We also look forward to expanding our infectious disease franchise this year as we plan for the launch of boceprevir, our protease inhibitor for the treatment of hepatitis C. Following the presentation of the Phase III data in November, we filed boceprevir with regulatory agencies in the US and EU and announced the acceptance of these files for expedited review in January.

Considering that many external stakeholders view boceprevir as being behind in development, it was great to see that we were first to file and gain acceptance with key regulatory agencies. We are currently in the process of preparing for the launch, and I am confident that we will be ready to execute our plans upon approval. We look forward to talking more about boceprevir and our commitment to hepatitis C as we move through 2011.

In closing, we had a solid fourth-quarter performance, which ended a successful year in 2010. We are in a great position with strong in-line brands, new launch opportunities, and an integrated commercial organization that is focused on growth in 2011. We see 2011 as a year for us to invest in our business to maximize these unique opportunities and grow the top-line. We look forward to updating you on our progress during the year as we report on our performance.

Now I would like to turn it over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, EVP & CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Adam, and good morning. As you heard from Ken and Adam, we have had a strong performance during the fourth quarter and the first full year of combined operations. You can see the merger is working, and we are on track as we enter 2011.

In the fourth quarter, strong revenue performance was the main driver of our results, which exceeded expectations. In addition to the strong sales performance, we exceeded our initial goals for ongoing cost management and merger synergy targets and are now operating on a significantly lower cost basis. So overall it was a high-quality quarter.

As we look ahead, we see some challenges in the macro environment. Worsening EU austerity measures and the healthcare reform costs will represent headwinds. However, despite these, we are optimistic that we can sustain and build on the top-line performance that we drove in the fourth quarter. In fact, in 2011 we are targeting to drive low to mid single-digit revenue growth despite these challenges, the continuing generic impact from COZAAR/HYZAAR, and the return of CAELYX and SUBOXONE to their originators.

Now let's get into our results. To make it easier to follow my remarks today, I will speak to the non-GAAP results in Table 2a, which exclude purchase accounting adjustments which reflect a charge for vorapaxar, merger-related costs, restructuring charges and other items. On this basis, we reported strong fourth-quarter non-GAAP earnings-per-share of $0.88, which is double-digit growth year over year. Total revenue for the quarter was $12.1 billion, slightly lower on a year-over-year supplemental combined non-GAAP basis. Excluding the impact of generic COZAAR/HYZAAR, total Company sales were up about 4%. We are very proud to have delivered such a strong top-line performance in the face of the various headwinds we have discussed.

And each of the businesses had a strong quarter. Since Adam discussed our Global Human Health performance, I will just comment on our Animal Health and Consumer businesses.

Animal Health grew 7% to $815 million. This is our highest sales quarter of the year, and it was driven by strong growth of in-line and new products and strong growth in cattle and swine. We also had strong performances in Europe and Latin America.

Consumer Care sales increased 8% to $251 million with strong contributions from foot care, skin care and CLARITIN.

Now moving on to the P&L, I would like to begin by noting that our 2010 operating expense performance far exceeded the value capture goals we had envisioned. In 2010 we achieved synergies of over $2 billion, and I believe that you can see these savings reflected in our P&L. So, indeed, we delivered net synergies and exceeded our 2010 merger synergies goal. And we did this while launching new products, making progress with the R&D pipeline, and overcoming some unexpected operating items. That took a lot of focused effort from our team, and we are proud of their excellent execution against our plans.

As expected, we made significant growth driving investments in the fourth quarter. And, as you know, the fourth quarter is typically a period of higher expenses. Accordingly our operating expenses were sequentially higher than they were in the third quarter of 2010.

Let's begin with materials and production. The non-GAAP gross margin in the fourth quarter was 74.1%, which was lower than the third quarter of 2010, mostly due to product mix. On a non-GAAP basis, marketing and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter were $3.4 billion, reflecting the investments we made to drive the top-line performance and charges for certain legal fees.

Moving onto R&D, as expected, research and development expense of $2.2 billion for the fourth quarter was higher due to the continued work we are doing to advance our R&D pipeline.

Now let me to spend a few minutes on the other expense line since it was bigger than anticipated this quarter. On a non-GAAP basis, other expense of $309 million was significantly higher than the third quarter of 2010, primarily due to the unfavorable impact from the currency devaluation in Venezuela.

Now we do have a very large business in Venezuela, so this devaluation has two unfavorable impacts on our business. The first impact is the exchange loss due to the translation of our monetary assets and liabilities on the Venezuela balance sheet. The impact was $120 million in the fourth quarter. The second impact is the ongoing foreign exchange impact on sales in future periods. There was no consequence from this in the fourth quarter, but it will unfavorably affect our reported sales in Venezuela in each quarter of 2011.

Moving to tax, our non-GAAP tax rate was 14.1% for the fourth quarter, which was lower than the previous quarters, partly due to the enactment of the tax extenders legislation, including the R&D tax credit. This resulted in a favorable impact of approximately $80 million on the tax line.

Separately we also had a benefit due to the foreign dividends from our subsidiaries. The EPS impact of these benefits was entirely offset by the combined impact of Venezuela, legal and other charges in the quarter, which totaled over $300 million. So, in summary, we finished 2010 strongly, and we are well positioned for growth in 2011.

Now let's spend our remaining time reviewing our outlook. As I said at the beginning, we see some challenges in the macro environment, but we are also optimistic that we can sustain and build on the top-line performance that we drove in the fourth quarter. In fact, in 2011, as I mentioned, we anticipate that we will drive low to mid single-digit revenue growth from the 2010 base of $46 billion. In 2011 we will face top-line pressures due to the European austerity measures, the US healthcare reform, and the residual impact of generics and the return of two products. We are targeting to overcome more than $1 billion of these challenges in 2011 and still grow the top-line in the low to mid single digit range. That top-line growth is the result of a strategic decision to invest more in growth, so some of our 2011 synergies will be reinvested to drive the top-line.

Accordingly though, in 2011 we expect to drive faster top-line and bottom-line growth than we did in 2010. Specifically on a non-GAAP basis, Merck is targeting a full-year 2011 EPS range of $3.64 to $3.76, which is high single-digit growth. On a GAAP basis, Merck is targeting full-year EPS of $2.05 to $2.33. Our EPS ranges include an unfavorable impact of about $0.06 due to the Venezuela currency devaluation in 2011 that I discussed earlier. Our range also includes an unfavorable impact from some supply issues in vaccines and women's health products.

In addition, the EPS ranges also include our revised estimates of the impact of US healthcare reform in 2011 due to changes in our assumptions about the cost of filling the doughnut hole and slightly higher assumptions on the impact of managed Medicaid and the excise tax. We now expect the cost of US healthcare reform to be between $400 million and $450 million in 2011.

As you think about our targets for 2011, you may also want to keep a couple of points in mind. First, our 2011 sales and EPS targets assume that Merck retains the full rights to REMICADE and SIMPONI in our markets.

Second, we have included a full year of Animal Health sales and expenses in our target, that please note that upon consummation of a JV, it is expected to have a dilutive impact in the first 12 months since the divestitures of overlapping products will occur before synergies can be implemented.

Finally, we expect the first quarter to be the weakest quarter of the 2011 due to the full impact of COZAAR/HYZAAR sales erosion, the return of CAELYX and SUBOXONE rights, and some supply challenges in vaccines and women's health. As a result, we expect sales and EPS in the first quarter of 2011 to be pretty similar to the first quarter of 2010. Beyond that, though, we expect to see much better top-line and bottom-line growth in the remaining quarters of 2011.

Ken discussed why we are withdrawing our long-term EPS targets and very importantly noted that our ambition is to drive long-term profitable top-line growth. Let me add that we will also be rigorous about continuing to streamline our cost structure to realize our $3.5 billion merger synergy target.

In closing, we are pleased with the fourth-quarter results we reported today with top-line performance, new product launches, tight expense management each contributing to these results. This casts off a successful first year of combined operations, and we remain excited about our future and are focused on driving sustainable growth.

Thank you. And I will turn the call back over to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter. Now we would like to open up the call to answer your questions. In order to help us get through as many callers as possible, please limit yourself to one or two questions. Also note, it is hard for us to follow when there are multipart questions. So, please, as I said, limit yourself to one or two questions. We will not take any follow-up questions, but you are welcome to rejoin the queue if you have more questions.

So, operator, we are ready for the Q&A.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I just had two questions. Maybe the first for Ken. I know you made some comments on this, but the Company reiterated its 2013 guidance last quarter when some of the impact of healthcare reform and EU austerity measures were pretty well understood. And while you have had a setback with TRA, it does not seem like that would have been a huge driver to earnings in really its first full year on the market. So the withdrawal of 2013 guidance, is that driven more by your view of the level of investment needed to maximize Merck's long-term opportunities as you have moved into the CEO role, or was it really that TRA finally kind of took the balance away from that guidance being achievable?

The second question, which kind of follows onto that, since you are withdrawing long-term guidance here and are talking about making some targeted ongoing investments in your franchises, can you just talk a little bit more about the SG&A trend which you expect over the next couple of years? I guess how should we be thinking about 2011 relative to 2010? And then directionally should we expect to drop off in SG&A as you approach the SINGULAIR patent expiration, or is that not a real expectation from here? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: So the first part of your question I would say it is both. We are, first of all, very confident in our future prospects, but we face a certain number of headwinds in the external environment, most notably, as we said, European austerity measures and US healthcare reform. And coupled with the recent news around vorapaxar, it actually made us face up to what we felt was an important strategic choice to either engage in immediate and in my view potentially indiscriminate short-term cost-cutting to stay on the track to meet the 2013 EPS guidance or to fund the many growth initiatives that we believe will create long-term shareholder value.

So given that trade-off, we after much thought decided that it was imperative to continue to make the necessary investments in our late stage pipeline, recent launches, our key in-line products, and we are very pleased that some of our products, our most important products, are growing at 15%, and geographic expansion. We believe that those will drive growth over the longer period, and so we decided to fund them even at the expense of the long-term guidance. And, as I said before, I take seriously, as do all of my colleagues, the withdrawal of those guidance.

As we go forward, I want to assure you that we recognize the need to continue to ruthlessly prioritize resource allocation through strict ROI hurdles and to have a relentless focus on reducing our underlying cost structure, which I think is exemplified by the fact that we exceeded our 2010 synergy target.

So our ambition as a Company over the longer term is to drive growth on the top-line, while continuing to gain significant efficiencies in our cost structure, which we think ultimately will lead to a strong top- and bottom-line growth.

So, on the second issue around what specific products, I think Adam alluded to a number of them. Our top growth drivers are continuing. We have launches underway with DULERA and SAPHRIS. Around the world in Japan, we have a number of launches underway. Even in the emerging markets, we have a number of products that are actually going very strong.

So from our perspective, we need to make sure that we continue with the products that are in-line, the products that are launched, and then this year, we are launching boceprevir. So we really look forward to that launch, and from our standpoint, this was a time for us to pause and to ensure that we invested in our portfolio. And I want to assure everyone on the phone that the issue is not that I don't want to perform at the level of the long-term guidance. It is that when all the things happen at the beginning of the year, I either had to go off without a documented approach to do that and cut more costs at the expense of the top-line and the long-term growth or to invest in the long-term growth.

Peter, do you have anything to add?

PETER KELLOGG: No, that is well said. I would reiterate again that it's really a blend of different things. We have reiterated again and again that we will definitely capture the value capture goals and merger synergies that we had intended. Incrementally we may make the right kind of investments to grow the top-line, and that is the decision we are making right now. And I think the key thing is we just don't want to pin down the performance of any one particular year and that we will be having a growth story going forward, and it is a series of different investments over time. But, because it is nice to have the pipeline and the investment opportunities that we do have, we want to take full advantage of them.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: I was hoping you could give us an update on some of the key filings that are going to go in this year?

KEN FRAZIER: So I think, first of all, the most important thing for us is in terms of 2011 is what I mentioned before, which is the filing that has been accepted for boceprevir, and we want to move forward, as well as JANUMET XR. So those are really major focuses.

As we look forward to the rest of the year, we have a number of filings. I would just point out that we have, for example, SAFLUTAN in the US, Telcagepant in the US, and at the end of the year, while it is not a filing, we are looking forward as we move into later 2011 and perhaps a little beyond, we have to really still wait for the readout of the data for vorapaxar in 2P.

I recognize that what the news so far has caused many people to be discouraged, but I also want to remind you that the DSMB recommended that we continue the trial with respect to patients with peripheral artery disease and coronary heart disease specifically, myocardial infarction. So that could still be an important contributor.

So ultimately what I have been saying this morning is we believe in the innovation approach. We think we have a good innovation story. We think boceprevir is an upcoming opportunity to demonstrate that.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: (inaudible) -- ask in a couple of ways. First, in the sense that I think it would have been --

KEN FRAZIER: You got cut off at the beginning. Please start again. I'm sorry.

CATHERINE ARNOLD: So I am going to probe on 2013 guidance a little bit more, and where I would like to start is on vorapaxar. Because I think it would have been very surprising if vorapaxar would had been a positive contributor to 2013 given an expected launch in 2012. It seems like it would have been actually a drag on earnings, not a positive. So I'm trying to put that comment in context.

I'm also wondering what you are assuming about European pricing in your forecast today versus what you were forecasting.

And then just lastly, if you could just qualitatively reflect on the fact, I think most investors and myself I would say I appreciate the importance of investing for the long term, but I think there is also the notion that there needs to be more sharing of pain in terms of bad investments for the Company with the shareholders. I'm just wondering, I know you don't want to cut costs and I understand that, but there is a balance here. Where are you as far as looking for ways to do this so that you might have more upside for the future?

KEN FRAZIER: So thank you for those questions. First, starting with boceprevir, I think it is important to recognize that we were already in those physicians' offices. We have a primary care -- I'm sorry, vorapaxar. I apologize. We are already in the physicians' offices. So the fixed costs are already there with respect to most of what we do with respect to our direct selling.

I think that, as we think about this decision that we have made, I want to make a couple of points. First of all, I want to stress with respect to your sharing of pain, we actually agree 100% that the tough external environment that we are facing next year is not going to abate going forward. We have to get our cost structure in line.

I point out again that in 2010 we exceeded the synergy targets. Over the last few years, since 2008, in the US we have 50% fewer sales reps. We have been trying to drive costs out of the system, but in a thoughtful way that does not jeopardize our business.

With the things that have happened since we created our guidance and stuff that I mentioned at the end of the year, including stronger pricing pressures around the world and the vorapaxar removal, we face a short-term question of whether or not we wanted to cut deeper in the short-term without having in my view a thoughtful approach that would not jeopardize the business. Cutting 50% of the reps made sense because we went about it the right way.

So what I would say to you is I'm not signaling any less concern about the importance of getting our cost base in line. What we face today, given the situation we have on the opportunities, is whether or not we are going to do that in the short run, adhere to the point target that we had for 2013, or whether we were going to reinvest some of the synergies that we are cutting this year into the business.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Ken, more of a strategic question. Just given the setback that you have faced with vorapaxar, I'm just wondering if you can provide us with your view of the research model going forward. I mean might it make sense for some of these very large, very expensive, very risky outcome trials such as vorapaxar, how do you buffer these trials? I mean might it have made sense to isolate some of the subgroups before pursuing a large trial, and I know that is obviously what is happening with Anacetrapib, but maybe if you could talk just in terms of how you see the R&D spend going forward?

I'm also just -- it is interesting that yesterday or the day before Pfizer announced a significant cut to its R&D. I'm just wondering if you can talk about your R&D spend going forward and if you see opportunities to really rethink that budget and to improve the R&D output?

And just a question for you, Peter, on the AZN put option, I understand that that will be put to AstraZeneca next year in 2012, and if you can just remind us, what is the earnings costs to Merck? Based on my calculations, I am coming up with about $0.20. But if maybe you could refresh us and help us to think about our models for next year. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Thank you. You asked some very pivotal questions in that set of questions. Let me start with vorapaxar. So I assume that what you're essentially asking is in hindsight, could we have done two separate trials, one in the AZN population and one in essentially the prevention population.

I cannot comment on the trial design. It was so long ago. But what I can say is that, as we as a committee with Peter and Adam and Peter Kellogg and myself, what we do regularly in the Company is trying to assess all the programs that we were relying on. We try to look at them from a science and technical and medical standpoint. We also try to look at them from a commercial standpoint. So we try to engage each program one by one in addition to having the kinds of tough metrics we have in place around ROI and value creation in the pipeline.

What I would also say is that we recognize that our strategy comes with a certain amount of complexity, lengthiness and predictability because we are seeking innovative medically important therapies. And with vorapaxar, we know the risk of trying new mechanisms and approaches. I still continue to have optimism because the DSMB continued and 2P. We will see what the data shows. If the data shows a benefit for that population, this could still be a very important drug going forward.

On the Pfizer question, obviously I can't comment on anyone else's view of their particular pipeline or the investment requirements that they face at this time. But I will tell you that we are mindful of the need to drive productivity, greater productivity in our R&D programs. Peter Kim and his colleagues understand that. We are focused on it. We are trying to take cost out. We are trying to increase the probability of success as we go forward.

But, as a Company, I think we are saying that we are committed to innovation as a strategy, and we believe that over the long term it will pay off. And if you'll just let me -- if you will indulge me one minute, last week I attended the funeral of John Horan who was the CEO of Merck a number of years ago before Roy Vagelos. One of the things he was proudest of was that he kept the focus on research during a fallow period for Merck research in the 70s, and that is exactly what led to a state of innovation that has made the modern day Merck.

So I'm not blind to what investors want us to do. They want us to invest in prudent ways, in ways that actually drive ROI and productivity. But we, as a Company, believe that the only sustainable strategy in the healthcare environment that we are in is real innovation that makes a difference to patients and payers, and that is why we have outcome studies surrounding these drugs. Because we come to market, we want regulators and payers to see the value of Merck drugs.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Peter, do you want to answer the AstraZeneca LP question?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure. And the essence of your question is right, and that is obviously as you recall, the AZLP relationship is a long-term relationship that we have had for quite a long time. When it was originally designed, it was structured such that there would be put and call options over time, and that there would be options for AZLP to buy out different parts of the relationship at a fair value each couple of years.

You may recall that in 2010 we covered the fact that that exercise had the exercise for non-PPI products had been -- the option rather for non-PPI products had been exercised. And, as a result, we don't book supply sales for non-PPI products anymore, and obviously that came out of the relationship. And, as we had commented two years later, which would be in 2012, another option would exist where they would be able to buy out the PPI products, and that is an option that is really AstraZeneca's choice.

We have always assumed in all of our modeling and the way we have always talked about our outlook in the future that AstraZeneca would exercise those options, but obviously there is no decision yet, and that is something that is completely up to them, and they can sort that out.

From an economic standpoint, actually it was a well-designed contract, and it was one where there is a true-up obviously. So we know that we are getting fair value in any kind of an option exercise, that we are comfortable from a shareholder value standpoint that that will work very well. But at this point obviously we don't know what AstraZeneca's decision would be on that transaction.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Sorry to do this, but I want to go back to that long-term guidance because the US health care reform issues has been known for about a year and European price cuts about just as long, and vorapaxar could not have been a big contributor. So it really says to me that there were other things that have changed along the way that may have been miscalculations on Merck's part. And I'm wondering if you can clarify what those miscalculations may have been?

We have had some setbacks like ISENTRESS qD; maybe that plays into it. Are there things like emerging markets where you feel you need to step up your investment more? And equally importantly, when can we expect you to give us new guidance? Your peer companies in some cases have lowered their guidance, but no one has withdrawn it outright. I'm wondering when we can see updated guidance from you?

The second question is on share buybacks. I thought that maybe Merck might do this as the story derisks as you get through the REMICADE dispute, assuming that is positive. But now with Merck withdrawing the long-term guidance, it makes me wonder if Merck is not ready to do something like this, and it might just be the status quo instead. So I'm hoping you can comment there as well.

KEN FRAZIER: So, I want to make it clear that we will regularly look at ways of returning cash to customers. With respect to REMICADE, we have no updates on that, and nothing we have said today reflects anything having to do with any new perspective on REMICADE.

On the first question, I want to make sure that I try to do this as well as I can. With respect to European price austerity measures and healthcare reform, it is certainly the case that we knew about the general subject matter. We have seen increases in the pricing pressure.

But it is also important to recognize that in addition to vorapaxar -- and you are right. All along we have had some setbacks with respect to our pipeline, which incrementally changed the way our revenue line looked and incrementally made us increase our cost reduction goals. You can see, again, in 2010, we exceeded our cost reduction goal. Our goal was to stay online with this EPS guidance. But we are now at a point where if we stay on that track, we are going to have to choose not to make important strategic investments.

I will come back to the pipeline. A key factor in the size of our R&D investment this year or any year is the quality, quantity and size of clinical trials. We are in a period right now where we have 20 late stage programs with a number of very large outcome studies. In a year with fewer large outcome studies, maybe we could take some cost out there. In emerging markets, we are seeing strong growth. As you know, we have said that we would not go out necessarily and buy many assets to get revenue. We are trying to build our business in the right way that creates long-term value. That requires internal investment.

With respect to the launch products, including boceprevir, we see those as real opportunities. And so I want to be clear. It is not that we could not cut costs enough to make the long-term guidance. Our choice was to do that, but we could not do that in our estimation fast enough without sacrificing the growth opportunities, and that was the choice that we made. It wasn't that we could not do it. It is that we could not do it in a way that would create long-term shareholder value given the opportunities that we have in front of us. And I would just cite, again, we did say that we are withdrawing the guidance. We have not put new guidance in because there are some important events coming up. I thought it was prudent to say that we would not restore guidance at this point in time. But I have also said very clearly our aspiration is to drive profitable and sustainable top-line growth, and we are saying now -- and I think if you looked at the models that were out there before -- people did not see us growing, and we have an opportunity to grow. We have done it in the fourth quarter. We are exiting 2010 with very strong momentum. We go into 2011, and we are excited about the ability to drive sustainable growth on the top line.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITI: The first question, just have in your release, you do indicate that your financial targets for 2011 assume that you will retain full rights of REMICADE/SIMPONI in the applicable markets. With this being an overhang in your stock, can you confirm whether you're currently in negotiations with J&J, what your next steps are, and then timing for resolution? And then I just have one follow-up.

KEN FRAZIER: So we have no further updates on the arbitration beyond what has been said. I think there is nothing more to add.

And what is your second question?

JOHN BORIS: Okay. One for Adam in emerging markets. Can you just discuss your supply chain in emerging markets for distribution of product? Is it an optimal distribution for your supply chain in emerging markets?

ADAM SCHECHTER: So obviously the supply chain in emerging markets is critical. When we think about the emerging markets and the opportunities that exist, they are extremely large. But getting the products widely available means that we are going to have to have a supply chain at a cost structure level that enables us to have a pricing strategy that makes those products widely available. So we are going to continue to make improvements on our supply chain, continue to make improvements on low-cost manufacturing. We are not where we need to be yet, but we are continuing to make improvements.

OPERATOR: David Maris, Credit Agricole.

DAVID MARIS, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE: First, I know Merck does not have a crystal ball, but how does the Company anticipate the challenges to the healthcare plan from a funding and constitutionality standpoint? How do you think that is going to play out?

And then on the emerging markets side, they did perform exceptionally well. How big is your China business at this point, and on the dollar sales standpoint, how many salespeople do you have? And when you talk about emerging market expansion, where do you think you need a bigger footprint than you have now?

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. I will take those questions, and I will turn the second one over to Adam. So we don't have a crystal ball on the healthcare reform cases. We know that the federal courts are split. I would assume that at one point or another given the importance of this constitutional question to the US and patients around the US, etc., I would believe that it would eventually make its way to the United States Supreme Court. Because the split in the cases among the districts that have decided it are pretty important ones to the country going forward.

On the emerging markets, without getting into the particulars, which I will turn over to Adam, I would say that we have strong growth in China, we have strong growth in Brazil, in Eastern Europe. You know, Dick Clark has said that we are late to the game, and I think he is right. We focused there, but we are very encouraged by the growth that we see there, and we are going to continue to build out our commercial infrastructure in a prudent, disciplined way in those markets, in a way that we think will create strong top-line growth and attractive margins.

ADAM SCHECHTER: So, if you look at the emerging markets first in the fourth quarter, it was 19% of our business, and it represented about 19% growth versus the same time last year. So we are seeing strong growth, and it is becoming a larger part of our business.

Specific to China, we see very significant opportunities in China. I have actually visited China three times in my first six months in this role. It is in our top 10 markets. It is greater than $500 million in sales, and we have about 5000 people currently working for Merck in that market.

China now reports directly to me, which is the same where Japan and the United States report directly to me. So we have a very significant presence there. It is part of our emerging markets strategy that I pay significant attention to, and we are very excited about the future prospects in that market, but all of the emerging markets, frankly.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: With respect to your guidance for 2011, you have guided to revenue that is above the street consensus and EPS that is below. And so it seems like your costs are higher than sell-side analysts expected for 2011. Is that effectively because you are reinvesting the synergies? Is that what we should conclude?

And then second with respect to driving top-line growth beyond 2011, you have made that statement a number of times. So is what you are saying that you expect the top-line to grow consistently beyond 2011, even in the face of the patent expiration of SINGULAIR and the buyback of the AstraZeneca partnership in 2012? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay. So, on the first question around the EPS range, I think, first of all, just to remind you, Peter Kellogg pointed out that there is a $0.06 right there because of Venezuela devaluation. Overall I would say, though, you are correct. We are reinvesting some of the synergies in 2011. We have I think very good plans about taking costs out of the Company where we think it creates less value, but we think there is value in investing across our portfolio, both our product portfolio and our geographic portfolio.

As it relates to our aspiration for top-line growth, that is an aspiration across a number of years. We are not making a specific comment about the year in which SINGULAIR goes off patent. But what is in the portfolio, the underlying portfolio is growing strongly now. It is growing strongly despite the fact that we have gone through a period of disruption and taking out a huge amount of resources out of the commercial part of the business. We think it's the right time to invest in our pipeline and our product portfolio.

PETER KELLOGG: I think the other question you asked was in relation -- we are really not issuing guidance beyond 2011, so I just want to be careful and be clear about that.

But beyond that, we have highlighted that over time we believe we can grow the top-line, as Ken said. We also believe we will definitely get the value capture element that we always targeted and probably more because we really have gotten off to a very great start in the first year. We will make some reinvestments.

But we did also comment that one of our goals is to have good P&L leverage over time, and so to have the bottom-line growing faster than the top-line. And that is a good formula.

Now we are not trying to pin down any one year. There is some volatile environment. But over time that is clearly what we are driving for. And I would think 2011 is a first start proxy to see low to mid single-digit top-line growth and high single-digit EPS growth really indicates and the year we are investing indicates how we are trying to read this together. (multiple speakers)

ADAM SCHECHTER: And David, the way I also think about it is, if you look at our key growth drivers -- JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, REMICADE -- we are growing very significantly in those products. And we are going to continue to support those products, and we expect to continue to be able to grow those products.

But, as I mentioned before, we are also focusing on the next 10 products or next 15 products. In every market that I visit, I don't not only focus now on the key growth drivers in those markets as they exist today, we take a look at products that you would not normally necessarily be tracking because in every market the next 10 products might be different than the first five or six.

So we believe that there is opportunity for growth in our expanded portfolio across the products that we have in the markets today. So we are really not only spending time on the growth drivers that you would look at routinely, but we are spending time in each market on other potential growth drivers.

And then the third lever obviously is the launches, and we feel that with DULERA, with boceprevir coming, with BRIDION, with some of the launches we have in Japan, that we have real opportunities. In fact, if you look at 2010, our new product launches were over $650 million. If we look at just the fourth quarter, the new product launches were very significant as well. So we are going to continue to invest in those.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen & Co.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN & CO.: First, your release states that you are pulling 2009 to 2013 EPS guidance, but to the best of my recollection, Merck has 2013 pretax margin guidance of up to 40%. The release does not speak to that one way or the other, so I'm wondering if you could shed light on that?

And then secondly on TRACER, I don't know if you said Peter Kim was on the line, but the trial was designed assuming an 18% projected placebo response rate. I'm just wondering if Merck believes the selection of that 18% placebo response rate was a good choice, or do you think the actual rate is likely higher such as 20% or lower such as 15%? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: So Peter Kim is not here today, and I cannot get into the math that you just described. So I will turn it over to Peter Kellogg with respect to your other question.

PETER KELLOGG: So, at the time of the merger, we announced the guidance element that we were shooting for. Some of them were financial. Some of them were profiling how we thought the genome might evolve. Obviously a lot has happened since that time.

We continue to focus on our pretax margin; however, we have not been updating that particular element of guidance since the original merger. And at this point, we are not -- that has not been an element of guidance that we have been reiterating.

That said, I don't want to leave the wrong impression. Clearly we are, as we have said, continuing to focus on driving the top-line and driving the bottom-line faster. And we will get P&L leverage. That would naturally drive our pretax margin up.

The other piece I would just take into consideration is that we will have some elements in our P&L that move around if we complete the Animal Health joint venture and then have equity income on the P&L, and that will drive some changes in our pretax margin as well. So there is a lot of moving parts.

But, nonetheless, I would not take away that we are not focused on value capture in any way that is different than we were originally. We were trying to initially give some sense that we were trying to drive the margins up significantly from where where, and we are still trying to do that. But we have not been reiterating that particular element of guidance since then just because the number of changes that have been occurring in the external environment, in the pipeline, and also, conversely, it sort of depends on how a few other factors play out in the future.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. I think we have time for just two more questions. So I think if we can take only one question each from the next two callers, that would help us get through that. Thank you.

Next question?

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: So just in terms of the thoughts around, again, wanting to know a little bit more about the long-term guidance, there were two elements that we have not really discussed. One aspect of the long-term guidance, which was not apparently included in the top-line or the bottom-line expectations of a CAGR in the high single digits from 2009 to 2013, was REMICADE and SIMPONI. When I incorporate -- that is clearly incorporated into my model, and I'm still seeing challenges there.

What are your statements with regard to at least how we should be thinking about that? Has that not really changed in terms of REMICADE/SIMPONI?

And then the other element of the guidance that I just wanted to -- at least the original guidance that would be helpful to have clarification on, was the expectation for roughly $15 billion of operating cash flow to my recollection. How should we be thinking about the operating cash flow metrics in that regard? Thank you.

PETER KELLOGG: I'm being signaled to be fairly pithy as we move forward because we are running long in the interest of time. A couple of pieces.

One, in our 2011 guidance, I did indicate obviously our guidance right now is for the next year, and we did indicate that that will improve. That is based on the assumption of retaining REMICADE and SIMPONI. We have not given guidance what that would look like in the short-term without.

In terms of the focus on cash flow and generation, we are really not reiterating long-term guidance at this point. So I will not get into that. But I would say that there is no question in this Company we are focused on generating cash. We do a good job today, and we are focused on returning that cash to shareholders. And, in fact, I think you would look, even if you took a look at the first three quarters or the full year of 2010, we would be a top-tier US pharma company in terms of the amount of cash flow generated that was returned to shareholders. So I think we are very proud, even in this past year where we purchased $1.6 million of shares and maintained the dividend, that we have been a very high returner of the cash generated by the operating business, and we intend to continue that. But we are not maintaining long-term guidance because I just don't want to give another long-term guidance comment.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Ken, I'm trying to balance two statements you made. One is about the right investment decisions, and the second is Merck's focus on real innovation.

Given the context of 2011 R&D guidance of $8.1 billion to $8.5 billion, why keep Betrixaban given the commitments already for outcomes trials that are ongoing?

And I am sorry, Peter, you may want to be pithy this time or more so. Isn't there increasing pressure on gross margin for 2011 much like in this quarter just based on that mix?

KEN FRAZIER: So, again, Peter Kim is not here to articulate his thinking about the particular program you referred to, Betrixaban. I will say that the guidance that you see around our R&D spending is driven by the aggregate quality of what we have, the quantity of what we have, the size of the clinical trials, and we are pleased to be in a period where we have 20 late stage programs with a number of products that could yield innovative, medically important therapies.

PETER KELLOGG: Thanks. I will be pithy on the PGM. You are right. There are pressures that over time will help our PGM, and there are pressures in the short-term that will have more pressure on our PGM. We were not giving guidance on it, but yes, you're right that there are pressures that would push our PGM down in the short-term.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Ken, did you want to say anything in closing?

KEN FRAZIER: Yes. In closing, let me just say to everyone, first of all, thank you for being on the call and for staying a little bit past the prescribed time. I just want to reassure you that as we go forward, it is our ambition to create value for shareholders. We believe the way to do that over the longer term is to drive sustainable growth on the top-line, continuing to gain important significant efficiency in our cost structure, which will ultimately lead to strong bottom-line growth. So I want to assure you that that is what my team is committed to, and we look forward to engaging you in future calls.

So thank you very much.

ALEX KELLY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes the conference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc. | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i2576 : Cardiovascular Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | idrugty : Drugs/Medication
   NS
e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c184 : Joint Ventures | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | ven : Venezuela | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110217e72300167
  


 HD
 Q3  2010  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,369 words
   PD
29 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Merck's Third Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, SVP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Brooke, and good morning, everyone and welcome to Merck's 2010 conference call. Before I turn the call over to Dick Clark, I wanted to point our a couple of things this morning. First, there are a number of items in the GAAP results, such as purchase accounting adjustments, merger-related expenses, restructuring costs, there's also a $380 million tax benefit and a $950 million legal reserve. We've excluded those items from our non-GAAP results and you can see a reconciliation table from the GAAP to non-GAAP figures in our press release and that'll give you a better sense of the underlying performance. Next, we've also provided tables to help you understand the revenue trends. There are three tables in the press release. The first table, Table One, is the GAAP results. Table Two reconciles our GAAP P&L to non-GAAP for the third quarter and year-to-date periods. Table Three is a supplemental non-GAAP table, which provides the sales performance for the Company, the business units and the products, as if the Company had been combined for 2009, as well as 2010.

During the call, we'll refer to Table Two, when we discuss the P&L and Table Three for the revenue performance. So you may want to have this available. Finally, I'd like to remind you that some of his statements we make during the call today may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs of management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Our SEC filings ,including item 1-A in the 2009 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings, as well as our earnings release, are available on merck.com. And with that, I'd like to let you know that I'm joined by Dick Clark, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, by Ken Frazier, our President and also, joined by Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now I'd like to introduce Dick Clark. Dick?

DICK CLARK, CHAIRMAN & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex and good morning, everyone. It's been a year since Merck and Schering Plough merged to form today's Merck. First let me say that I'm extremely pleased and proud of all that we've accomplished in such a short period of time. We have consistently focused on achieving the benefits of the combination for patients, customers, shareholders, and employees. Most important is furthering the science that underpins Merck's ability to address many of the world's most serious unmet medical needs. Today our Company has greater geographic reach, one of the industry's broadest portfolios and has a tremendous late stage pipeline that I believe is second to none. As we mark the anniversary of our merger, I want to thank many Merck colleagues who have helped us manage this significant combination so effectively.

Throughout the past year, we have continued to drive revenue growth for key products, improve our cost structure, and make the right strategic investments in our business. We've accomplished this while successfully taking on the challenging task of integrating our people, systems, and cultures to form a powerful unified organization. And while we still have work to do, Merck is well-positioned now and for the future. Our solid third-quarter 2010 financial results illustrate that we are continuing to execute our strategy. We realized top line worldwide sales of $11.1 billion, non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.85, and GAAP earnings per share of $0.11 for the quarter. Key brands including JANUVIA, JANUMET, SINGULAIR, ISENTRESS, and REMICADE were each strong performers this quarter. It is Merck's ability to develop and offer these truly differentiated products that will position us to successfully navigate difficult economies, pricing pressures, and challenging regulatory environments throughout the world.

In a few moments, Ken will discuss our global product performance in more detail. Peter will then provide you with our full earnings outlook. While our merger has always been about the science, synergies are also important. We are on track to achieve our previously announced synergy target of $3.5 billion in annual savings by the end of 2012. As we continue to integrate, there's exciting activity across all of Merck and the world, particularly R&D and commercial friends of Merck. In coming months and into next year, we expect some important clinical data from promising candidates in our robust pipeline. You will hear more about these milestones in a few moments.

And this pipeline is coming through in other ways, too. As we speak, we have ten major product launches underway in important markets around the world. In just the last few weeks alone, we have received regulatory approval for BRINAVESS in Europe and signed an important partnership agreement to allow Lundbeck to distribute SYCREST in all markets outside the United States, China, and Japan. Recently, we also marked our first major US product launch as a combined company with the DULERA launch. With the addition of this exciting new asthma product, Merck now has the widest respiratory portfolio available in the United States. Last week, I had the pleasure of participating in the DULERA launch meeting, along with our sales and marketing team. It was great to share first-hand the enthusiasm and excitement our sales representatives have to bring this new treatment to our customers. We've made excellent progress in the integration of our commercial operations in our major markets throughout the world. Those integrated markets account for about 85% of our global human health sales.

It is exciting to see the benefits of our broader, more diversified product portfolio as we engage with physicians and customers. The team is doing an excellent job executing on our commercial sales model in the United States and in key markets in Europe, Japan, Latin America, and Asia-Pacific. Our overall goal is to outperform our peer pharmaceutical companies and become the clear industry leader in the eyes of our customers. In fact, our customer survey for the US market indicates that Merck continues to lead in trust and value metrics versus our peers. If our is on positioning Merck to become a leader in the key global growth markets, then our broad portfolio of healthcare offerings will drive further growth in these emerging markets. We are currently the fifth largest multinational pharmaceutical player in a fast-growing emerging markets and we are aiming much higher. By 2013, we seek to derive at least 25% of our global human health and vaccine sales from the emerging markets. We are making good progress and in third quarter, that number was 18%.

Over time, we will build further on these efforts by leveraging our advantage, using our broad in line portfolio. Many of these brands are former blockbusters with considerable brand equity such as ZOCOR. We are also successfully launching new products in these markets, such as JANUVIA. Additionally, we are seeking to globalize the vaccine business through growth in emerging markets, through partnerships and through the introduction of low-cost manufacturing for some of our key products to expand affordable access. Finally, we are working to tap the significant growth potential for many of our well-regarded consumer care brands by expanding our operations outside the US. In summary, we've made great progress driving growth of key products, achieving our merger synergies, expanding our global reach, launching new products, and advancing our late-stage R&D pipeline. One year post-merger, our results demonstrate that we are realizing the benefit of our merger while ensuring that the Company is well-positioned for the future. Now I'll turn it over to over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, PRESIDENT, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Dick and thanks everyone for joining us this morning. As Dick mentioned, we had another successful quarter with global human health reporting sales of $9.7 billion despite the economic challenges in many markets and the loss of exclusivity for COZAAR and HYZAAR. Our commercial performance this quarter was characterized by continuing strong performance of key brands such as JANUVIA, JANUMET, SINGULAIR, ISENTRESS, and REMICADE which was complemented by strong growth in key geographic markets and new contributions from our ongoing product launches such as SIMPONI, BRIDION, and AFLURIA. Before I review the sales performance, I'd like to refer you to Table Three, which provides the supplemental combined non-GAAP results and includes the impact of foreign exchange. As you review Table Three, you'll see that product sales were driven by the robust growth of our key brands, SINGULAIR, JANUVIA, JANUMET, REMICADE, and ISENTRESS. These brands grew a combined 17% year-over-year.

Now let's take a closer look at the performance of some of these key brands, starting with SINGULAIR, which grew 12% over the previous year. The increase in sales was driven by growth in most regions. We continue to see volume growth in the US and EU, and continued class leadership in Japan. Additionally, SINGULAIR sales in the emerging markets grew 25% in the third quarter. Moving on to JANUVIA and JANUMET, global revenue grew 28%. Sales this quarter were again driven by double-digit growth across most regions. We continue to see volume growth in the US, and the franchise continues to grow in the EU, due largely to new indications and the ongoing launches of JANUMET.

On a combined basis, JANUVIA and JANUMET are the leading branded oral anti-diabetic franchise and roughly 75% of the top 20 markets. We continue to focus on extending the value of this franchise, and we remain on track for filing a JANUMET once-daily formulation with FDA next year. Actually, this year. I apologize. REMICADE sales increased 9% in the third quarter. Despite the austerity measures across the EU, REMICADE continues to grow by double-digits, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Even in markets where we've seen a good uptake of SIMPONI, REMICADE continues to grow.

Turning next to ISENTRESS, after three years on the market, it continues to deliver outstanding performance, gaining market share across all indications. ISENTRESS's strong sales growth in the third quarter was driven by the growth in the treatment-naive indication and broad utilization of new treatment guidelines in the US. We remain on track to file the once-daily dosing regimen with the FDA in 2011. For the VYTORIN and ZETIA franchise, sales decreased 3% in the third quarter, as volume declines in the US were only partially offset by higher sales outside the US. The sales growth outside the US was primarily driven by the 30% growth of ZETIA in Japan and 13% growth of VYTORIN in the emerging markets. VYTORIN and ZETIA continue to be an important treatment option to help many patients lower their LDL cholesterol. We understand that researchers from Oxford plan to present the results of the SHARP study at the ASN meeting in November. That study, as you know, focused on patients with chronic kidney disease.

Now let's shift to our vaccine business, where we're starting to see signs of progress, including more stable supply. GARDASIL sales grew 2%, benefiting from the timing of shipments to customers. Sales increased sequentially, largely due to the seasonality of the back-to-school period. Sales in PNEUMOVAX were down 15% as a result of the unfavorable seasonal comparison from the H1N1 pandemic last year. We launched our newest vaccine, AFLURIA, for the seasonal flu, which posted sales of $35 million in third quarter. We continue to work on the supply issues for ZOSTAVAX. We had limited shipments of the products in Q3, and we anticipate delivering additional shipments to US customers by the end of this year. As you can see, our overall business continues to benefit from the diversity of our product mix and our portfolio of differentiated brands. In addition, our broad global presence is also an asset, providing us with the flexibility to leverage our portfolio in key markets around the world.

In the US, sales grew 1% if one excludes the impact of generic erosion for COZAAR and HYZAAR. When you look more closely at the business lines, you'll see that we had double-digit growth in our diabetes franchise, as well as strong growth in our women's health franchise and we continue to gain market share for products such as ISENTRESS and SINGULAIR. In addition, as Dick mentioned, we're in the process of launching DULERA, our newest treatment for asthma in the US. We shipped to pharmacies in July and we completed our full promotional launch last week. We are encouraged by the early feedback from the field as we focus on the unique attributes of DULERA compared to other combination products. Now, let's turn to the EU where sales or lower this quarter due to the loss of exclusivity of COZAAR and HYZAAR, as well as the impact of European austerity measures. We continue to believe these measures will have a mid-single digit impact on European sales in 2010.

Despite those economic challenges, we continue to see strong growth in key brands such as to JANUVIA, JANUMET, ISENTRESS, and REMICADE. We're also launching many new products in the EU. SIMPONI, which has been launched in 18 countries, recorded sales of $27 million in the quarter. While we're still working to gain reimbursement in many markets, the early performance indicators are positive. We also launched BRINAVESS and DAXAS into markets and will have additional launches of those products in 2011. As I said earlier, we saw good performance in key growth markets. In Japan, sales increased 7%, largely driven by ZETIA and SINGULAIR and the strong launches of BRIDION, COSOPT, and JANUVIA are also contributed to our growth in Japan.

We continue to focus on our business in Japan as we get ready to file and launch many additional brands over the next three years. We also continue to make significant ,yet disciplined, long-term investments in the emerging markets. Growth in the quarter was driven by our top six markets, where we saw significant gains from countries such as China, which grew 21% in the quarter. We're approaching each emerging market as a separate opportunity to optimize our product mix. As we focused on each local market and its specific customer needs, we've seen an ideal match with our diverse product portfolio. Whether it be vaccines, products for cardiometabolic disease, or the offerings in our women's health franchise, we're seeing growing utilization of Merck products in the emerging markets. People typically think of branded generics as the only key to success in the emerging markets, but JANUVIA is a great example of how an innovative and differentiated product, with the right level of educational and promotional support, can become a market leader in the Asia-Pacific region. While there's a lot of focus on the emerging markets, one shouldn't forget that science and innovation remain at the core of our business in every part of the world. For us to be successful, we have to continue to discover, develop, and launch differentiated products with clinical profiles that offer patients and payers proven benefits. That's why our late-stage pipeline is so critical to our future.

In the fourth quarter, we have data presentations for three of these key late-stage programs which I'd like to discuss with you briefly now. Last week, at the ASBMR meeting, we presented the four-year BMD data for odanacatib, our selective cat K inhibitor for the treatment of osteoporosis. Patients on odanacatib continued to show increases in bone mineral density at the lumbar spine and hip. Odanacatib is currently in Phase III, and we will have a long-term fracture study with 16,000 patients, which is fully enrolled. We plan to file odanacatib with regulatory authorities, bolstered by that outcome study, in 2012. Starting this weekend and continuing into next week, researchers will present final Phase III data for boceprevir, our hepatitis C protease inhibitor at the AASLD meeting in Boston. We previously announced the topline results of the Phase III program.

In those studies, boceprevir added to the current standard of care, doubled the cure rate in treatment-experienced patients and nearly doubled the cure rate in treatment-naive patients. With the use of response-guided therapy, we also showed that the addition of boceprevir has the potential to shorten the duration of therapy in both treatment-experienced and in treatment-naive patients, compared to standard therapy. The data that will be presented at the upcoming liver meeting are compelling, and we look forward to sharing them with you. We remain on track to complete the filing of boceprevir with regulatory authorities around the world this year. Later in November, we will present study results for anacetrapib, our CETP inhibitor for the treatment of atherosclerosis at the AHA meeting in Chicago. As expected, the results of this study confirmed our decision to move anacetrapib to the planned outcome study that will begin next year. As you can see, we will be presenting a lot of data in the fourth quarter and beyond as we move many of our late-stage research programs forward.

In summary, we've delivered another good quarter. We continue to be excited by the opportunities to grow our business through our current portfolio of products in key markets and through our robust late-stage pipeline, supported by outcome studies. While the operating environment is constantly changing, we are steadily executing on our strategic goals to create the leading health care Company in the world. And now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken and good morning. As you've heard from Dick and Ken, our performance this quarter was, once again, characterized by solid operating performance in our business, which continues to help offset the impact of generic COZAAR and HYZAAR and continuing cost management and benefits of merger synergies in our cost base. Ken discussed how our key brands and markets performed and now I'd like to cover our third quarter financial performance and our outlook. So let's begin with our results. Our GAAP financial information can be found in Table One of our release. To make it easier to follow my remarks today, I will speak to the non-GAAP results in Table 2A, which exclude purchase accounting adjustments, merger-related costs, restructuring charges, a $380 million tax benefit, and a $950 million legal reserve. On this basis, we reported third quarter non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.85.

Total revenue for the quarter was $11.1 billion, down 4% on a supplemental combined non-GAAP basis. Excluding the impact of generic COZAAR HYZAAR and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, sales were actually up about 2%. This is good performance. Despite the unfavorable impact of austerity measures in Europe and the impact of health care reform in the US and we are pleased with the performance of each of our businesses. Ken discussed our global human health sales, so let me just comment on our animal health and consumer businesses. Our animal health business grew 3%, 6% ex-exchange to $687 million, reflecting growth in North and South America, as well as growth in poultry, swine and aquaculture. Consumer care sales also increased 3% to $291 million, due to the growth of foot care, respiratory, and skin care products. Growth in this area was partially offset by the impact of generic MIRALAX. Now moving on to the P&L, you can see that we've done a very good job controlling our expenses again this quarter. We continue to be very pleased with the progress we're making against our merger synergies. And, we are doing so while launching new products and making great progress with the R&D pipeline.

As you know, the costs of our combined Company are represented in our current cost base, whereas only the legacy Merck costs were included in the third quarter of 2009, which complicates analysis on a year-over-year basis. As a result, I will speak to the sequential trends on the cost lines since those comparisons are more meaningful. First, materials and production -- the non-GAAP gross margin in the third quarter was 74.9%, which was lower than the second quarter of 2010 when the gross margin was 76.5%. As you can see, our gross margin moves a bit quarter to quarter, mostly due to product mix. This quarter, the mix changes came from a variety of factors including lower sequential sales of products like NASONEX, CLARINEX, and CLARITIN. Sequentially, the second quarter also benefited from a favorable foreign exchange impact which did not recur in the third quarter. Moving on to marketing and admin expenses, on a non-GAAP basis, marketing and administrative expenses in the third quarter were $3 billion, which was about $100 million lower than the second quarter of 2010. And on a year-to-year basis, we drove significant cost savings in M&A, due to the realization of merger synergies. This was partially tempered by increased promotional spending to support new launches like SIMPONI and DULERA.

As you know, we are actively launching many new products and we expect 2011 to be an exciting year for new product launches in the US and around the world. I'll talk more about that later. Research and development expense for the third quarter was approximately $1.9 billion, which was slightly lower than the first two quarters, due to the continued work we are doing to further prioritize our R&D investments. As a result of the prioritization activities, we decided to stop investment in a few additional programs in the third quarter. We also previously announced plans to rationalize our R&D networks. Meanwhile, we continue to invest in our most promising late-stage products such as vorapaxar, boceprevir, telcagepant, odanacatib and tredaptive. And these key programs in our pipeline continue to move forward.

Now let's move to equity income. In the third quarter, Merck recorded $236 million of equity income. As expected, this was sequentially higher than the second quarter. Remember the income from the AZLP joint venture was low, due to the inherent variability in the timing of income from the AZLP joint venture. Moving on to other expense, on a non-GAAP basis, other expense of $158 million was comparable to the second quarter of 2010. Our non-GAAP results exclude the impact of a legal reserve of $950 million in connection with an anticipated resolution of the previously disclosed investigation by the US Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts, related to VIOXX. Moving to tax, the Merck non-GAAP tax rate was 22.2% for the third quarter, which was higher than the rate that we saw in the second corner. As noted in the press release, we continue to expect full-year tax rate to be in the range of 22% to 24% on a non-GAAP basis.

In addition to the solid operational performance this quarter, we also returned cash to shareholders through our dividend and by making continued progress on our share repurchase program. During the quarter, we paid $1.2 billion in dividends and spent approximately $300 million to repurchase roughly eight million shares of our common stock. So far this year, we have repurchased about 47 million shares for $1.6 billion. So in summary, we continue on a strong trajectory since our merger. Now let's spend our remaining time reviewing our outlook for 2010 and beyond, and let's start with our 2010 outlook. Given our strong year-to-date performance, we are only making one change to our 2010 financial targets. We raised the lower end of our EPS target range, resulting in an increase in the midpoint of EPS range. On a non-GAAP basis, Merck is now targeting a full-year 2010 EPS range of $3.31 to $3.39, excluding certain items. Please see our press release for the GAAP guidance. Factored into this EPS range are the topline pressures in the US and the EU, including the impact of health care reform in the US, which is unchanged from our previous estimates and the impact of European austerity measures.

Recall that we had anticipated a mid-single digit unfavorable impact on European sales in the second half of 2010. We still believe that will be the case. Our current year EPS range also assumes that Merck retains full rights to REMICADE and SIMPONI in our markets. On the expense side, as I mentioned earlier, we also anticipate increased promotional spending in the fourth quarter and in 2011 for new product launches like DULERA,, DAXAS, BRINAVESS, and additional lunches of SIMPONI around the world. Not to mention we are preparing for the prospect of launching boceprevir in 2011. And we continue to make new targeted commercial and R&D investments, including those in the emerging markets. These growth driving investments are a major reason why we expect our operating expenses in the fourth quarter to be sequentially higher than they were in the third quarter of 2010. So, while these topline pressures and operating investments put pressure on the fourth quarter, we are comfortable with our full-year 2010 EPS guidance range.

Finally, let me touch on our long-term outlook. We remain excited about our future and we have many opportunities between our commercial launches, our R&D pipeline, and the merger-restructuring activities that are already well underway. We continue to target a high single-digit non-GAAP EPS compound annual rate from 2009 to 2013 regardless of the outcome of the REMICADE arbitration. In addition, we are well on track to realize our $3.5 billion synergy target by the end of 2012. So in closing, we're pleased with the solid third quarter results we reported today. Operational growth in our business, the launch of new products, and tight expense management each contributed to our results. We have had a strong performance during our first year of combined operations, demonstrating that the merger is working and we are right on track. Thank you. Now I'll turn the call back over to Alex. Alex?

ALEX KELLY: Yes. Thanks, Peter. Now we'd like to open up the call to take your questions. But, in order to get through as many questions as possible, we ask that you please limit yourself to one or two questions. We don't plan on taking any follow-up questions, but if you do have additional questions, you're always welcome to rejoin the queue. Brooke?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Barbara Ryan with Deutsche Bank.

BARBARA RYAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning and thank you very much for taking the question. Maybe it's for you, Dick and possibly, Peter. The comments that you've made this morning relative to 2013 guidance, which specifically, is the height single-digit (inaudible) using 2009 as the base. You consistently said that, that guidance holds, irrespective of the outcome of the J&J arbitration. An obviously those products contribute meaningfully today to your earnings. And I would appreciate that, over the long haul, you obviously have a number of pushes and pulls. So maybe you could speak to us specifically about, what are the offsetting factors? Let's assume that you were to lose that litigation and lose the earnings from those products, will what be the offsets that allow you to get to the same place?

DICK CLARK: First of all, Barbara, I will turn it over to Peter in a second, but I think the most important aspect of this is that we do remain very confident in our position in this arbitration and I think that's important. And as you know there's a lot of variables that go into a product range or guidance range that we present. And the good news from a Merck standpoint is that we have a very robust late-stage pipeline, we have cost synergies that we have in place, we're looking at new operating models, we have new product launches throughout the world now, and so we do sensitivity scenario planning to be able to accomplish that. So, we have so many levers to pull and attributes as this new company that that's why we're able to state that. Peter, anything else?

BARBARA RYAN: Thanks, Dick.

PETER KELLOGG: No. I think you wrapped it up properly, Dick. That's it.

DICK CLARK: Thank you Barbara.

BARBARA RYAN: Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Steve Scala with Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Should we assume that if there were any negative aspects in the SHARP data such as cancer signal or progression of disease that Oxford group would reveal the data immediately? So, I guess that the conclusion should be that there are no such negatives and I'm wondering if you agree? And secondly on SINGULAIR, what is the benefit to not filing this over the counter? It seems like a strategy that does not fully utilize Merck's largest single asset and does J&J Merck think they have rights to OTC SINGULAIR? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: So on the first question, I think when particular data is revealed is up to the Oxford group and we look forward to seeing the data next week when it's revealed -- in two weeks. On the SINGULAIR question, we constantly look at all of our products to evaluate what their long-term lifecycle management value would be, including prospects for over the counter switch.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi. A couple of pipeline questions as you won't be having an R&D meeting and then a question on REMICADE. On TRA, can you just narrow the timing of seeing results from the two Phase II trials in 2011? And then, second pipeline question, it looks like you guys have 15 valent pneumococcal vaccine in Phase II that would go up against Pfizer's Prevnar. Wondering when that might go into Phase III and also wondering where you're getting that conjugation technology from? And then, on REMICADE, you say it was a strong performer, but it looks like this is three quarters in a row where there's been sequential declines and I'm wondering what the trajectory is from here? Is this all a function of price cuts or are there share losses?

KEN FRAZIER: Backwards -- on REMICADE, the growth would have been, without exchange issues, 13%. I think the other issues that we're dealing with, since we have the European territories, is we have the general austerity measures and measures that are aimed, actually, at the anti-T&F category. I think the product continues to maintain its share and it continues to grow, notwithstanding the introduction of SIMPONI in those markets. So, we feel very good about that. On the pneumococcal one, we have not revealed any new information on the timing of moving that forward. TRA, we've said that we expect generally that we'll have this data to be revealed in the mid- 2011 period. As you know, it's an event driven to trial, and I think that's about all we can say about it right now. And we have an R&D meeting, of course, coming up --

ALEX KELLY: So, Tim, normally Merck has been in the history of having an R&D day in December, there will not be one in 2010 since we just had an R&D update in May of 2010. Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mark Goodman with UBS.

MARK GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: You mentioned that in R&D you had stopped work on a couple of programs, can you mention which ones they were? And then, second of all, in cost savings, can you tell us where we are so far? I know that of the 3.5, about half of it was supposed to be in year one, are we on track for that? I think it was 60% in SG&A, so that's like $1 billion out of SG&A, are we seeing that? Obviously, we're seeing SG&A come down, but you're saying you're spending more on advertising promotion for the new products, so just trying to get a flavor for where we are in the cost savings.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Peter.

PETER KELLOGG: Hi. Good morning. Thank you for the questions. So, the first question about the R&D pipeline decisions, those affected Aveo, which I think we announced earlier for a program we had with them, acadesine, a program numbered SCH-900105, which is in the oncology space. In terms of the SG&A performance, I think your question was, do we -- are we achieving the first year synergies that we anticipated? And I would say that, in fact, that's probably one of the areas we're very proud of so far. The commercial team, speaking for them if I can, has done a great job, actually, in the beginning of this year, rapidly integrating the organizations and finding the right synergies, leveraging the new commercial model around the world. I believe we've commented in the past that, at this point, we've got, Ken, I'll turn this over to you, but about 17 of our top 20 markets around the world now integrated. Ken, do you want to add any other comments?

KEN FRAZIER: That's correct. And I think that we've been able to do it quickly with the least amount of disruption possible given the size of these two organizations that we're bringing together. So, we feel very confident that we'll continue to meet our synergies on the timetable we revealed.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Chris Schott with JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks. First question was on GARDASIL. I believe your competitor announced a price cut in Canada. I'm interested in your thoughts on that move and would you consider in certain markets lowering price to drive incremental demand for the product? Second question, bigger picture, just latest thoughts on capital deployment? How are you prioritizing business development, share repo and the potential to increase the dividend? And just as a follow-up to that, we're now a year post- Schering, how were you thinking about just leverage for the overall Company, given the broader, more diversified organization that's been created? Does that diversification increase your comfort with more permanently carrying leverage at the Company? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Starting with the Cervarix question, we won't, obviously, be in a position to talk about what our pricing strategy is going forward, but I think it is important to recognize that we are the market leader with greater than 90% share in that market.

PETER KELLOGG: So on the questions of capital deployment, good question, and as you know, we have talked in the past about how we have a fairly strong dividend. And, as I mentioned in my discussion, we actually had a dividend that amounts to $1.2 billion per quarter and as I mentioned, also, that in this quarter, we had about $300 million of share repurchase. But on a year-to-date basis, that's $1.3 billion. So, I think from the free cash flow of the Company, you can see that we're doing a good job redeploying cash even this year in the first year of the merger. So, that is important to us. That said though, we are very actively looking to make great value-creating deals around the world and I think our business development activity is very active in a number of areas. One is to make sure we have the best pipeline in the industry. Secondly, looking for great combinations and opportunities to partner around the world on the commercial side. And thirdly, in the emerging market space, we recognize that we're going to be broadening our footprint and we want to make sure that we work with good partners locally to help create that value. So, the BD side is also active and that does come into play.

The last thing I would say, is relative to our debt. Obviously, what we talked about at the time of the merger was that we designed the merger to make sure that we landed at about the same place that we were before the merger. And we targeted the credit ratings to allow us to have some flexibility but to also reinforce the strength of Merck so that we can handle any kind of issues that come up. But also, more importantly, that we can invest on the strategic opportunities that we have around the world and we intend to continue that. It is true we are generating solid cash flow and will be -- that cash flow performance will be growing. So, we will keep an eye on that, we will be shareholder-friendly, but obviously we will also intend to maintain our credit rating. We work closely with the credit agencies to make sure we're in the right place and I think were in about the right place right now. Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just a couple of follow-up questions. Dick, on the consumer business, I'm just wondering if you could remind us what your strategic plans are for that? Relative to the overall company, it's very small. And is the plan to scale this up or to spin it off? And then, secondly, regarding REMICADE arbitration, I know there's a limit to what you say, but just given the fact that has been protracted now to more oral arguments at the end of this year, if you could provide any color on what this means, your confidence level in the outcomes, and how far apart are the two companies now and just, when we can expect to get a resolution? Thanks.

DICK CLARK: Jami, to your first question, I think, we look at the consumer care business as still an important part of our future. And the fact that I can sure applaud the tremendous job of taking those brands and seeing the growth that we had in the United States. And our strategic approach right now is to do that on a global basis. They're good brands, they last a long time and so, we're putting resources behind the growth from a global standpoint. I think just as important, it's a natural fit with many of our pharmaceuticals as well. So, from a distribution standpoint and a customer standpoint, we're looking at first growing it organically as we move forward. To your second question, I'll just restate that we remain very confident in our position in this arbitration and Bruce, if you want to say a few words about that?

BRUCE KUHLIK, GENERAL COUNSEL, MERCK & CO., INC.: Sure. Jami, it's Bruce Kuhlik. I would not read anything into the post-hearing process. This is simply something that we've agreed to with the arbitration panel as an orderly way of completing the written and oral submissions before the panel.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. I have a couple of questions. The first is, with respect to the tax rate outlook, can you just frame how you're thinking about the longer-term tax rate? And the trigger for my question is the tax rate development in Puerto Rico recently. And then second, with respect to the pipeline, could you just update us on the timing of news flow on V710, the staph vaccine? Specifically, I'm interested in understanding the efficacy better. And then the BRIDION hypersensitivity data. Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Peter, you want to start?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure. I'll start with the tax rate, David and I'll pass it over to someone else for the pipeline question. On the tax rate, obviously we haven't given long-term guidance on our tax rate, and as you've articulated, obviously, there's a lot of different pushes and pulls, both ways as you go forward. And so, that's something that's part of her long-term guidance on the EPS line, but we really haven't broken that out. And some of that is because it's not all crystal clear. I think on the recent developments that were just announced this week in Puerto Rico, obviously we made a couple of public statements through Pharma and so forth, and clearly it's something that we need to get to understand better. We are clearly disappointed, but on the other hand, we will work with it. On the pipeline side, let me pass that over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER: So, on the staph vaccine, as you know, the ongoing study is an endpoint-driven study. And I think our view is that we'd expect to see the interim look in 2011. On BRIDION, we are now hypersensitivity and coagulation and we plan to be able to file that in 2011.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Boris with Citi Investment Research.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the results. First question, just really on the dividend, if I could just press there a little bit in an environment where some of your peers are paying a higher dividend and/or most of your peers are consistently raising their dividend, you haven't had a dividend increase in quite some time. Can you just help us understand how you're thinking about the dividend and dividend increases going forward? And then a pipeline question on boceprevir, you deployed a strategy for certain assets, such as JANUVIA, a go-to-market strategy that was pretty quick and pretty rapid. Are you going to use a similar type of strategy on boceprevir? And can you confirm whether the product's been filed or completed the filing as of yet?

PETER KELLOGG: John, thank you, this is Peter. Thanks for your question. As you point out, obviously our dividend is very competitive with the pretty attractive yield, obviously and the good dividend payout ratio. That said, obviously it's something that we're asked about on a regular basis. We don't give guidance going forward about our dividend but, as I've mentioned in my script and in one of the earlier questions, we do remain highly focused on returning cash to shareholders in an appropriate manner, while at the same time making sure we have the cash to drive the science-first mindset we have here. We're very proud of the pipeline and our international footprint. We think we're building a great growth story for the future and we think that's also a priority for us. And so, at this point, I think we are, as I've mentioned, we intend, going forward, to be very shareholder-friendly. And, that said, also make sure that we attend to the strategic needs of the business in a very important way.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Ken, would you like to --

KEN FRAZIER: What we've said about the status of boceprevir with the FDA and the EMEA is that we plan to file and we are on track to complete the submissions in 2010. I think on the commercial side, we can't reveal, obviously, what our marketing strategy is. But, I think we have a robust strategy and I think we know how to launch products in the specialty area, like ISENTRESS, as well as in primary care like JANUVIA. So, we're very excited by the prospects of boceprevir. We look forward to November 1 and 2 and the Phase III data being presented at AASLD.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Good. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Catherine Arnold with Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I just had one more housekeeping question in regards to the J&J arbitration. Because I know you've covered that a lot, but I just want to be very direct in my question on something. And then I'd like to ask you another question after that. Which is one, on J&J, there was obviously a lot of misinterpretation potentially about the first press release, when you talked about the series of events and that, when people did the math, it led to the decision before the end of 2010 and then there was more clarity on that for 2011. It may be splitting hairs, but I'd like you to comment on the process. Did you change the communication because there was a misunderstanding or did you change it because there was incremental step in the process? And then the second question I have is about the donut hole coverage. And I wondered if you've looked at your portfolio and made some judgments as to what products might have the most upside in 2011? Because there's better compliance due to the donut hole coverage. Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Bruce, do you want to start?

BRUCE KUHLIK: Sure, Catherine. In response to the question about the timing of the arbitration, what we've done is make the disclosures with reference to the timing as it stood at the time and in terms of averages, for example. One of the advantages in an arbitration proceeding is that the parties and the arbitrators are able to agree on changes of the process as they go along and that's what we've reflected during our ongoing disclosures.

KEN FRAZIER: And on the donut hole, we obviously look at our entire portfolio. Some of our products are more subject to Medicaid than others like the chronic care products, but overall, we think that that has a benefit because you can see greater patient compliance when you take away the economic dis-incentive that was inherent in the donut hole.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Operator, I think we have time for two more questions, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez with Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thank you very much. Just a couple of quick questions. Can you just discuss for us the contribution to earnings from AZLP? We saw pretty strong revenue number from AZLP this quarter. Just wondering what kind of contribution on the revenue and then the equity income also was quite strong in the quarter. I know these payments are lumpy, but it looks like it was a -- like it brought something to the table here. Also, can you talk about the gross margin weakness is in the quarter? What pushed it so low in the quarter, was it really just king of mix and seasonality with Schering? Was it the mix of AZLP revenues? And just the final question, really related to AZLP and your long-term guidance, what are the assumptions? Can you just remind us about the assumptions relative to AZLP and the PPI option that Astra-Zeneca holds for 2012? And I guess, when would be the timing of the execution of that option should Astra-Zeneca actually choose to execute it. Thank you.

PETER KELLOGG: Okay. Thank you for the questions. I think those are all headed my way. This is Peter. So, first on the AZLP, you've got it right obviously from a quarter to quarter standpoint. That is an operation that does have inherent variability in the timing of payments and recognition of income, obviously. However, it's a business that continues to do nicely. We haven't really given guidance for these individual businesses and so forth, but there are timing of different seasonality of the products and so forth. On the -- related to that relationship, there is, as you know, in February there was an option on the non- PPI products that was executed, and you saw a gain in our financials earlier this year from that. And obviously that gain is excluded from our non-GAAP results, but you can see it in our GAAP results and in some of our tables.

The next option timing is two years later, that's for the PPI item. So, that would be roughly in the first part of 2012. And at this point, what we've always assumed is that they would exercise that option that said it's their choice and we can't really predict exactly what'll happen, but that's the way we've always thought about it anyway. And then moving to the product gross margins for the quarter, you're right, you put your finger on the two points. One is obviously there is some volatility in PGM just naturally because of the mix, and some of that mix is because of products, or it could be divisional and so forth. That does it a little bit.

The other factor that we had in the second and third quarter this year, when you compare from the second to third quarter, was in the second quarter, we did get some foreign exchange benefit. And in the third quarter, that didn't recur. So, that also kind of caused the third quarter to look a little weaker versus the second quarter, and then obviously, the mix also. So we had two factors go against us in the third quarter. I think we have experienced a higher level of volatility in foreign exchange rates this year than normal and so that, on some timing basis eventually does roll to the cost of goods. I hope that answers all your questions.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. We're now ready for our last question, please.

OPERATOR: Your last question comes from Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning. Thanks for squeezing me in. Just two questions. Ken, on diversified brands, is that managed independent of other areas of business? And secondly, do you actually have a dedicated sales force to sell those diversified brands? And then, secondly, Dick, big picture, I've heard you talk about customers and excellence with customers and being number one with customers, but if I think back over the last 20 years, the balance of power has really shifted. And I'm curious today, who are your principal customers, and please don't just say, well, it's patients, it's physicians, it's payers. That we kind of know, but there's been a shift and I'm just curious how you think about that from a focal point on the sales effort? Thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Dick?

KEN FRAZIER: Let me start with diversified products. I would say that, first of all, we have been trying to focus on those brands as a separate business line. They have their own separate customer segments and so, we have a GM to manage it as a franchise from a marketing standpoint. And in some markets, we actually have separate sales forces; China, for example. I think it varies depending on the actual market characteristics. But to answer the thrust of your question, we actually try to treat this business line as its own distinct business line to be managed.

DICK CLARK: And to your other question, obviously, the focus that we have on physicians is still very important to us, mainly from an education standpoint, so that the physicians know about our products or vaccines. And now, with the merger, that we have such a robust capability in each of the franchises, that they know they have many choices. I think we're moving to a more customized customer approach than just the same messages on the same kind of products and services for every customer. But, on a more strategic level, Tony, and I think that's a good question. I think one of the things that Merck will have from a competitive advantage standpoint, is that when you look at either governments on an international basis, whether it's a NICE-type organization, or whether we're moving to health care reform today and the government's going to play a larger role or whether you're looking to some of the larger managed care payers that exist in the United States, the important part is going to be health technology assessment.

And the ability to have clinical outcomes and to be able to prove that whatever product they are thinking about from a regulatory approval or launch standpoint is above the standard of care that exists today. And I think where our competitive advantage is as a Company is our late-stage pipeline and how much of it has an ability to meet unmet medical needs. And it is differentiated products and we have the clinical outcome studies to prove it.

ALEX KELLY: Okay. Thank you, Operator. That concludes our call today. Thank you, everyone.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc. | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i2572 : Vaccines | i2575 : Respiratory/Allergy Treatments | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | idrugty : Drugs/Medication
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c32 : Advertising | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101112e6at001bn
  


 HD
 Q2  2010  Merck  & Co., Inc. Sales and Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,643 words
   PD
30 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to Merck's second quarter 2010 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, SVP IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Amanda and good morning everyone. Welcome to Merck's 2010 second quarter conference call. There are a number of items in the GAAP results this quarter such as purchase accounting adjustments, merger related expenses, restructuring costs, and also the gain on AstraZeneca's asset option exercise. We've excluded those items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables so you can get a better sense of the underlying performance for the quarter. We've also provided tables to help you understand the revenue trends. So this quarter there are three tables in the press release. Table number one is the GAAP results. Table number two is a reconciliation of our GAAP results to a non-GAAP basis for the second quarter and also for the year-to-date period. Table three is a supplemental non-GAAP table which provides the sales performance for our products and our businesses as if the Company had been combined in 2009. During the call we will be referring to tables two and three when we discuss -- or excuse me, table two when we discuss the P&L and table three when we discuss the product performance, so you may want to have those available.

In addition, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call maybe considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2009 10-K, identifies certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements we make today. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. In addition, you can see the Company's SEC filings as well as today's earnings release and the tables at merck.com.

This morning I'm joined by Dick Clark, our Chairman, President -- excuse me, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ken Frazier, our President, and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now I'd like to introduce Dick Clark.

DICK CLARK, CHAIRMAN, CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex and good morning, everyone. Our strong bottom line performance in the second quarter demonstrates Merck's continued success in executing our post-merger strategy. We're now halfway through our first full year as a combined Company. Already, we're seeing positive signs of what can be achieved. Despite patent expirings in a challenging economy, I'm very pleased with what our team has accomplished. We remain focused on driving revenue growth, maintaining the momentum of our business, reducing our cost structure, and making the right strategic investments globally, all of which are allowing us to make good progress towards Merck's overall goal of becoming the best healthcare Company in the world.

Strong underlying product performance helped us realize top line worldwide sales of $11.3 billion, non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.86, and GAAP earnings per share of $0.24 for the quarter. Key brands including Januvia, Janumet, Remicade, Isentress, and Temodar were again standouts this quarter. In addition, Animal Health and Merck Consumer Care produced strong global sales.

With our strong performance for the first half of the year, we continue to have confidence in delivering on our long term financial targets. We also remain committed to achieving our previously announced synergy target of $3.5 billion in ongoing annual savings in 2012. We have already announced initial phases of the merger restructuring program that will contribute approximately $2.7 billion to $3.1 billion toward the overall target, with procurement savings and subsequent pages to account for the rest. In a few moments, Ken will discuss in more detail our global product performance and then Peter will discuss our full year earnings outlook. But first let me highlight a few areas.

Merck's integration remains very much on course, but will it involve more hard work and difficult decisions as we proceed forward with our efforts to capture the full value of the new Merck for patients, customers, and shareholders. The announcements we made recently detailing the plans to integrate Merck's global research and manufacturing operations is another key step, but not the final one in successfully executing our overall plan to create an industry leading operating model. On the R&D side, our goal is to create a more flexible organization that fuels innovation in our pipeline and excels at external collaboration. On the manufacturing side, we aim to have a more reliable cost efficient, worldwide supply chain to support Merck's broader product portfolio and meet the demand of a diverse and ever evolving global healthcare environment. And while there are still lots of moving parts, we are building a strong track record of quickly executing our integration plans, while launching new products and delivering strong performance from current ones. That is what allows us to drive revenue growth in key brands despite patent expirings and difficult economic conditions.

In markets around the world, we simultaneously have launches underway for a range of products including Simponi in ten markets and Januvia in Japan and India. Additionally, our latest asthma medication, Dulera, was recently approved by the US FDA and we've begun its launch. As we shared with many of you during our R&D day in May, we also have several followings under late stage review in the EU. From our robust pipeline we anticipate making about 20 filings for new compounds and new combinations between now and 2012, including Boceprevir, Vorapaxar, Odanacatib, and Tredaptive in the US. We also remain well positioned in Animal Health, a business that is driven by growing demand for animal proteins, as well as a strong demand for companion animal health care. We are on track to bring together Sanofi-Aventis and our Animal Health businesses into a new joint venture that will create a new global leader in animal health.

Looking ahead, we continue to be excited about the many opportunities before us to serve the rapidly expanding emerging markets. Throughout these markets, I believe we continue to position Merck well by launching new products and making targeted business development investments. Examples of our committment and execution can be found in high growth markets like China and South Africa. In South Africa, we have a newly formed strategic collaboration with the local partner, Adcock Ingram. Together we will co-promote and distribute branded products, as well as over-the-counter medications. This collaboration will extend our reach into the market.

Earlier this month, Merck's executive committee members and I spent a busy week in China. It has become one of our most important markets. Providing needed medicine and vaccines to meet the expanding needs of Chinese patients is an exciting growth opportunity for us, so we are focused on building our capabilities incline a including our local production capabilities in China, including our local production capabilities, our product portfolio and our R&D. As part of our expansion efforts, we recently unveiled joint venture plans with Sinopharm to manufacture and commercialize adult and pediatric vaccines in China and announced plans for a manufacturing site in Hangzhou where we will invest to build local capacity. I've seen firsthand the excitement and hard work underway in our emerging markets around the world, with China being the most recent example. That's why I'm confident that we will reach our goal of driving 25% of our global pharmaceutical and vaccine revenue from emerging markets in 2013.

Merck's committment to improving health around the world is not new to us. This committment dates back decades and most recently was recognized by the access to medicine index. Merck was ranked second in the global analysis of companies that are making their medicines and vaccines readily available to markets across all income levels. All of these actions support Merck's mission to help patients around the world and to maximize shareholder return by providing innovative medicines, vaccines, and consumer and Animal Health products globally. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, PRESIDENT, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Dick, and good morning, everyone. As Dick mentioned, we had another successful quarter despite losing the exclusivity of Cozaar and Hyzaar and the economic challenges facing our businesses and customers around the world. In describing our second quarter performance, please note that I will refer to supplemental combined non-GAAP results which include the impact of foreign exchange. The Global Human Health business delivered a solid quarter with sales of $9.8 billion. This represents a 2% decline on a supplemental combined non-GAAP basis from the previous year, largely due to the loss of exclusivity of Cozaar and Hyzaar, especially in the US. If you've been following the weekly prescription trends, then you have seen that there's been rapid erosion of approximately 90% of branded Cozaar and Hyzaar prescription volume in the US. Other markets, such as the UK and Italy, have also experienced rapid erosion. Excluding the impact of Cozaar and Hyzaar, Global Human Health sales grew 3% year-over-year.

Sales were driven by the robust operational growth of key brands such as Januvia, Janumet, Remicade, Temodar, and Isentress. We continue to be optimistic about the growth opportunities for these brands. The speed with which we've integrated our commercial operations, the diversity of our portfolio, and the underlying strength of our global business have been key factors in our successful start to the first half of 2010. In the second quarter, we continue to drive growth in many of our markets. International Human Health sales grew by 5% excluding Cozaar and Hyzaar.

Our emerging markets business grew 12% in the second quarter. We spent a fair amount of time during the business briefing in May discussing our strategy and goals in the emerging markets. As we said then, we believe these markets will grow to represent more than a quarter of our pharmaceutical and vaccine sales by 2013. In the second quarter, the emerging markets accounted for 19% of our Human Health sales. Two of the emerging markets, China and Brazil, are quickly working their way up our list of top ten markets. Sales in China and Brazil both grew by more than 15% in the quarter.

We continue to expect to have significant future growth opportunities across the emerging markets. We are well positioned to drive significant growth with our current portfolio of products including Januvia, Singulair, as well as branded generics like Cozaar and Hyzaar, as well as Zocor. We are also exploring multiple strategies to increase our share in the branded generic and patent protected segments through value creating partnerships and acquisitions. Dick mentioned some of the recent developments in China including the recent letter of mutual agreement with Sinopharm to develop a joint venture to commercialize pediatric and adult vaccines in China, a very large potential market. Now, turning to the performance of some of our key brands this quarter.

As I address the individual product performance, you can follow along in table three from our supplemental financial package as Alex said earlier. Starting with our respiratory franchise, Singulair sales in the second quarter were $1.3 billion, comparable to the second quarter of 2009. This year, the spring allergy season peaked early in the US and was overall comparable to the 2009 season. Sales in the US this quarter were also affected by unfavorable fluctuations in trade inventory. Double digit growth of Singulair in the emerging markets was offset by declines in Japan due to the timing of shipments to our partner. For Nasonex, global sales increased 5% driven by the strong growth in the US and Japan. Despite the flat year-over-year comparisons for the allergy season in the US, sales of Nasonex grew in the US by 7%. Nasonex continues to be the leading branded nasal inhaled steroid and now includes additional congestion labeling in the US. In Japan, we've had robust growth since the launch and Nasonex is now the market leader.

Moving on to Januvia and Janumet. Global revenue grew 33% to a combined $818 million. The Januvia franchise continues to perform strongly in terms of share and overall growth. Sales in the quarter were driven by double digit growth across all markets. In Japan, where we recently launched Januvia, sales were $69 million which included supply sales to our partner of about $40 million. We've seen strong initial response to the value proposition Januvia represents to Japanese physicians and patients.

Our immunology franchise also achieved strong growth during the quarter. Remicade continues to be a leading immunological therapy with sales of $669 million, an increase of 18% from the previous year. Remicade continues to deliver growth across all indications -- rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology. We anticipate Remicade's double digit operational growth will continue throughout 2010. In addition, sales of Simponi were $18 million in the quarter. Simponi sales continued to grow as we launch the brand in more countries and take share from other subcutaneous anti-TNFs. We've now launched in ten countries, most recently in Spain. We will launch Simponi in other EU markets in the second half of 2010 and launches in the UK and France are planned for 2011.

Turning to Zetia and Vytorin. Sales were $1.1 billion this quarter, which in the aggregate represents a 3% decline compared to the previous year, primarily due to declines in the US. Sequentially, Zetia and Vytorin grew 4% globally. Zetia and Vytorin remain a primary focus of our promotional efforts and we continue to see solid growth in many markets around the world, including 28% year-over-year growth in Japan. We continue to make progress on the IMPROVE-IT study which is now fully enrolled with over 18,000 patients.

Moving on to vaccines. For the total vaccine business, I will focus my comments on sequential comparisons. Total sales for the vaccine business were $832 million in the second quarter, compared to $846 million in the first quarter of 2010. As a reminder, vaccine sales in the first quarter benefited from a $75 million to $100 million inventory build. With that in mind, we had some bright spots in the second quarter specifically with respect to RotaTeq, which benefited from a temporary competitor supply issue, and Pneumovax. This, unfortunately, was offset by weaker Zostavax sales due to supply constraints and the ongoing backorders for the brand. This is a frustrating situation for our teams, our customers, and patients and we have dedicated several hundred engineers and researchers to getting it fixed. We continue to work to resolve our current supply issues and to create redundant capacity in our facilities in North Carolina and Ireland. However, we do expect sales to be negatively affected by the supply issue again in the third quarter of this year.

Moving to Gardasil. Sales as reported by Merck in the second quarter were $219 million, an 18% decline from the previous year. In the US, Gardasil sales grew sequentially by 5%. We've made good progress with the coverage for males and funding is now secured for all states. Gardasil continues to maintain market share leadership in the US, and it also remains the global market leader.

In infectious diseases, Isentress continues its outstanding performance as sales increased 55% to $267 million in the second quarter. The continued growth of Isentress reflects the unique efficacy and tolerability profile of this product, which has been widely embraced by physicians, patients, and health organizations around the world.

While many of our brands reported positive growth trends in the EU during the second quarter, the environment in the EU and across Europe is now more challenging. Many countries have announced austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas such as healthcare. While the implementation of pricing actions varies by country, many have announced measures to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs. In the short-term, we've worked with many of the industry groups and governments to help develop solutions for our customers to improve their budget positions and address the short-term economic issues. While we're taking steps to mitigate the immediate impact in the EU, we anticipate that the austerity measures will affect our revenue performance going forward. Peter Kellogg will focus on the financial impact of the EU austerity measures in his remarks shortly.

Moving from the economic environment, I'd like to highlight briefly some recent developments from three of our key R&D programs, Dulera, Vorapaxar and Boceprevir. We're in the process of launching many new products this year and we have robust late stage pipeline with programs that represent significant scientific achievements and first in class opportunities. In June, as Dick mentioned, we received US FDA approval of Dulera, our combination steroid and long acting beta agonist for the treatment of asthma. Despite the availability of other combination treatments, there remains a large unmet need in asthma and we believe Dulera represents a great alternative due to its differentiated profile, which includes the addition of clinically judged deteriorations in asthma within its label. We're beginning the launch of Dulera now with plans for a full commercial launch late in the third quarter.

Our Phase III program for Vorapaxar, our PAR-1 inhibitor for the prevention of major cardiovascular events is also progressing well. Both Phase III studies are now fully enrolled. The TRA 2P study in secondary prevention is fully enrolled and patients are being monitored for the accrual of events. The TRACER study in patients with acute coronary syndrome is also fully enrolled and patients are being monitored for the accrual of the events. Based on current event rates, we anticipate that both studies will be completed in mid 2011. We are pleased with the progress in the Phase III program. Most importantly, we continue to target a 2011 filing for Vorapaxar.

Turning to Boceprevir, our Hepatitis C protease inhibitor, I'm pleased to share with you that both Phase III studies are now completed and we're in the process of analyzing the results. We plan to submit the Phase III data for presentation at the AASLD meeting in November. Finally, we remain on track to file Boceprevir in 2010.

In closing, Global Human Health along with Animal Health and Consumer Healthcare have delivered another solid quarter for Merck. We continue to be excited by our portfolio of products and our robust late stage pipeline. While the operating environment is constantly changing, we continue to execute on our long term strategic goals to create the leading healthcare Company. Now, I will pass the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken, and good morning. As you've heard from Dick and Ken, we continued our performance in the second quarter and our integration efforts are well underway. Our performance this quarter is characterized by solid operational performance which was tempered by the impact of generic entries for Cozaar and Hyzaar. And the cost management and benefits of merger synergies in our cost base. Ken discussed how our key brands and geographies performed and now I'd like to cover three areas with you. First, our operating results, second, our restructuring activities, and third, I want to discuss our targets for full year 2010 and beyond. So let's begin with our results.

As Alex mentioned, we have once again provided data in our earnings release and supplemental charts to help navigate through our non-GAAP adjustments to the P&L. To simplify my remarks today, I will speak to the non-GAAP results which exclude purchase price accounting adjustments, merger related costs, restructuring charges and the gain on AstraZeneca's asset option exercise. On this basis, we reported second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.86. Total revenue for the quarter was $11.3 billion. On a supplemental combined non-GAAP basis, sales were down 2% versus prior year due primarily to the impact of generic Cozaar Hyzaar and lower Astra supply sales due to the generic erosion and return of rights to the non-PPI products. These offset solid operational growth in the rest of the business.

Ken discussed our Global Human Health sales, so let me just comment on our Animal Health and consumer businesses. Our Animal Health business grew 9% to $731 million reflecting growth among cattle, poultry, and swine products. We remain on track to complete our Animal Health joint venture with Sanofi-Aventis in the first quarter of 2011. Consumer Care sales increased 11% to $422 million due to the strong seasonal performance of Claritin and Coppertone.

Now moving on to the expense items in the P&L, you can see that we did a very good job managing our expenses this quarter in anticipation of additional commercial launches and spending on our late stage pipeline expected in the third and fourth quarter. The costs of our combined Company are represented in our current cost base, whereas only the Merck costs were included in the second quarter of 2009, so it's a little hard to see the underlying trends on a year-over-year basis. As a result, I will speak to sequential trends on the cost lines since those comparisons are more meaningful. Let's begin with materials and production.

The non-GAAP gross margin in the second quarter was approximately 76.5%, which is an improvement compared to the first quarter of 2010 where the gross margin was 75.4%. Most of the improvement in the gross margin was driven by product mix, with higher sequential sales of Januvia, Isentress, and increased sales of seasonal allergy products.

Moving on to marketing and admin expenses, on a non-GAAP basis, marketing and administrative expenses in the second quarter were $3.1 billion, which is about the same level as in the first quarter of 2010. Research and development expenses for the second quarter was approximately $2 billion, which is also in line with the first quarter. As the year progresses, we see continued investment in late stage projects such as Vorapaxar, Telcagepant, Odanacatib, and Tredaptive.

Now let's move to equity income. In the second quarter, Merck recorded $43 million in equity income which was a decrease from the first quarter, primarily due to the inherent variability in the timing of payments for the AstraZeneca joint venture. Moving on to other income and expense. The GAAP results include $443 million from AstraZeneca's exercise of the asset option. On a non-GAAP basis, other expense of $153 million was comparable to the first quarter of 2010.

Moving to tax, the Merck non-GAAP tax rate was 20.5% for the second quarter, better than the rate that we saw in the first quarter. As noted in the earnings release, we continue to expect the full year tax rate to be in the range of 22% to 24% on a non-GAAP basis. In addition to the solid operational performance this quarter, we also returned cash to shareholders through our dividend and by making progress on our share repurchase program. During the quarter, we paid $1.2 billion in dividends and spent approximately $1.3 billion to repurchase about 38 million shares of our common stock. So in summary, we continue on a strong trajectory since our merger.

Now let's talk about the integration activities. This quarter, we may continue progress on our cost synergy capture by reducing our headcount and global infrastructure, and generating savings from procurement actions. On July 8, we announced our plans to phase out operations at eight manufacturing facilities and eight research facilities over the next two years. The merger restructuring program also includes consolidating our sites in local markets by closing 58 commercial offices. The actions we've announced so far will bring our number of R&D sites down to 16 and our number of manufacturing sites down to 48, excluding Animal Health sites. We will continue to pursue productivity efficiencies and evaluate our manufacturing supply chain capabilities on an ongoing basis. Remember, we are planning to create a new Animal Health joint venture, so our Animal Health business is not involved in the Merck merger restructuring activities. As a result of these and other actions, such as procurement savings, we are well on track to realize our $3.5 billion synergy target by the end of 2012.

Now I'll spend the remaining time reviewing our outlook for 2010 and beyond that. Let's start with 2010. With the first six months complete, it's appropriate to provide an update on our earnings targets. We have maintained $3.34 as the mid point of our range while tightening the EPS range for the full year. Merck is now targeting a full year 2010 non-GAAP EPS range of $3.29 to $3.39, excluding certain items. Factored into this target EPS range is our strong first quarter results, continued benefits from synergies in the second half, the impact of healthcare reform in the US, which is unchanged from our previous comments, and the assumption that Merck retains full rights to Remicade and Simponi in our markets. In addition, we have assumed top line pressures due to pricing actions in some European countries and foreign exchange, both of which we believe will be a headwind in the second half. In addition, we anticipate increased second half spending for new product launches like Dulera in the US, new targeted commercial and R&D investments in the emerging markets, and spending to support the late stage pipeline.

Let me go into a bit more detail to help you understand what is already factored into the 2010 targets. As Ken mentioned, Greece, Spain, Germany and some other markets have already announced price reductions which will have an unfavorable impact on our results in the third and fourth quarter of 2010. The impact of European -- the impact on European revenues in the first half was about 2% unfavorable. In the second half, we anticipate a mid single digit unfavorable impact on European sales. These updates are included in our 2010 targets and will impact our second half performance relative to what we were modeling at the beginning of the year. As a result, we now expect that EPS in the second half will be similar to the level in the first half, so you should adjust your models accordingly. Logically, these actions in 2010 will also have an impact in 2011 as they annualize.

Finally, let me touch on our long term outlook. We remain excited about the future of the new Merck and we have many opportunities between our commercial launches, our R&D pipeline, and the merger restructuring activities that are already well underway. We continue to target a high single digit non-GAAP EPS compound annual growth rate from 2009 to 2013.

In closing, we are pleased with the solid second quarter results we reported today. We clearly had a strong first half. Our expense management contributed to that performance and will help us manage a tighter environment in Europe. The merger is working and our results and our short term and long term earnings targets demonstrate that we are right on track. Thank you. Now, I'll turn the call back over to Alex.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter. Now we would like to open up the call to answer your questions. But in order to get through as many as possible, we would like to ask you to limit yourself to one or two questions and note that we won't take follow-up questions. But if you do have additional questions you're welcome to rejoin the queue. Amanda, we're ready for the Q&A.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Your first question is from Marc Goodman with UBS.

DICK CLARK: Good morning, Marc?

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: So, given what happened with BRILINTA at the panal, I was just curious how you were thinking about how TRA plays into that market there? And second of all, can you give us an update on your biologic program?

KEN FRAZIER: So I'll talk about BRILINTA. I think from our perspective, I think it's important to recognize that we always studied TRA and always anticipated that it would be added to the standard of care whether it was Aspirin, PLAVIX, or another medicine in PLAVIX class. So, it was always our intent to have it added on top of the standard of care and, so we would think that it would be added on to BRILINTA if that became approved at some point and became a competitor of PLAVIX I also think it's important to recognize that even with the -- for example, 16% increase, a great deal of residual risk still remains, cardiovascular risk, still remains and therefore, there's still an important role for medicine like TRA. I also think it's important to remember the product profile, which includes the fact that we have not seen any increase in bleeding, unlike some of the other medicines that are being used, so for all of those reasons I continue to think there are really robust prospects for medicine like TRA.

ALEX KELLY: Marc, can you just repeat your second question?

MARC GOODMAN: Just an update on the biologics, the bio similars.

KEN FRAZIER: So, you'll remember that back in May, we discussed our MVB strategy and we updated the status of the PEG-EPO program which was discontinued. At the same time, we also highlighted the fact that a number of other programs continue in our MVB portfolio and we also referenced biological programs that are part of our novel biologics focus including antibodies against HGF and IGF1R for oncology, IL 23 for immunological indications, MK3415a for C. difficele, and of course ELONVA, which is a novel follicle stimulating hormone for fertility. So, that's a--sort of a short description of where we are in our biologics program, but I think it's important to recognize that we see biologics as an important part of our future both with respect to what we anticipate will be an abbreviated pathway for the approval of biological similars, as well as novel biologics research going forward.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Chris Schott with JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks. First question was on ZOSTAVAX, just can you give me a little bit more on what needs to be done to address the -- ?

DICK CLARK: Sure, Chris. It's Dick. I think the issue, as Ken mentioned, is that we put significant amount of technical and engineering resources on this both from a manufacturing and a research standpoint, and certainly right now, we are cautiously optimistic. We have begun production again of Varicella. We believe that by starting production we have a path forward, so that's good news. It's not going to have an impact on 2010 forecast because the product process cycle is significant, so there's many more production steps to go through yet. There's more quality testing to go through. There's more discussions with the agencies to go through, but I am cautiously optimistic due to the fact that obviously we've started production that it's important.

The second important aspect is, as Ken mentioned, is that we've started our focus around [Dorem], and we hope to have that from a production standpoint up and running in the second half of this year and from a pediatric standpoint, with the relaunch of COMVAX, our HIV and Hepatitis B combination vaccines, all of Merck pediatric vaccines will be available in the US for the first time since mid-2007. So, we are making that type of progress but we'll keep our fingers crossed on ZOSTAVAX because we did start production again.

CHRIS SCHOTT: Okay, and on the emerging market, following this deal with Sinopharm, should we think about Merck looking at these type of partnerships going forward or when we think about the emerging market, the inorganic growth portion of this, will more traditional M&A play a larger role? I guess when I'd consider the moves that Abbot made, as an example, this quarter and how you're thinking about what appear to be fairly rich valuations, if you were to consider a larger strategic move as it relates to the emerging market? Thanks.

DICK CLARK: I think the way we look at it as a Company is that we don't look at the emerging markets as a entity into itself. We look upon it as a country-by-country basis and currently, our total focus, obviously, is profitable growth and keeping profitable growth as the principal. In some cases it will be joint ventures and relationships. Sometimes it won't be inorganic at all and sometimes there may be an acquisition out there that may help the foundation of a particular country or be a foundation across other emerging markets. So, we really take it case-by-case and what's in the best interest of that particular country, is there a partner, is there a combination that makes sense from a value standpoint, and most importantly, does it make sense from a profitable growth standpoint.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from John Boris of Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITI: Thanks for taking the question and congratulations on the quarter. Just one for Peter Kellogg. Can you quantify the impact of healthcare reform in the quarter and then what you anticipate for the full year, and then just building on the previous question on China? When you look at China, Dick, especially since you spent a fair amount of time there this past week, how are you thinking about it from an ability to price your medicines, what do you see as the impact of formularies on your ability to price those medicines going forward and then any discussions you had on the intellectual property? Obviously that's a very important component respecting intellectual property within the Chinese market, but any thoughts you have there would be helpful, thanks.

DICK CLARK: Peter?

PETER KELLOGG: Thanks, John. It's Peter. So healthcare reform, I think, really is moving ahead just the way we had originally anticipated, so there's no surprise this quarter. Ballpark, roughly about $44 million impact in the second quarter and that makes sense given what we'd talked about as a full year impact of about $170 million, so really no update, no change really in what we anticipated or originally modeled. We've always said that would probably increase next year to something in the $300 million to $350 million range, so it's pretty much in line with what we've always talked about. No new surprises.

DICK CLARK: Okay, so on China, let me just start by saying that I think we continue to be very excited about the future in China. To look at China in a monolithic way as it relates to pricing or every--any other aspect of our commercial strategy I think is not how we are going to approach it, so let's start with the robust growth that we anticipate in the middle class in the urban areas of China. For those people, healthcare is still likely to be a self-pay exercise and so we will continue to look at those market segments in a way that we can price competitively with alternative therapies, but I will say that the pricing in China has allowed both broad access while at the same time also allowing strong profit margins in that country.

I think the other aspect is through the government and so there's an essential drug list which is part of Chinese healthcare reform and Merck participated in the essential drug list, placing ZOCOR among other medicines on that drug list. And our experience there has been that while we've had to provide substantial discounts to get entrer to the essential drug list, the volumes have more than compensated for the pricing reductions that we have. So, I think what we've seen with ZOCOR right now is an example of how in that market we have to price in a way that creates value for that market and there's still an opportunity to be profitable in that context.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Thank you. I know you don't like to say much about the REMICADE dispute, but I'm hoping you can give us at least some information. You used to talk about being highly confident that you would prevail in the dispute, but I don't really hear that language being used anymore and I'm wondering if that's still the case. On arbitration can you run through different options here? Is it all-or-nothing or could there be some sort of middle ground or what exactly? And then on your comments about not impacting 2013, it's not clear to me why that wouldn't impact your 2013 guidance because it is a pretty material contributor to your financials and by extension if it doesn't impact 2013, can we assume that it wouldn't impact 2010 either?

ALEX KELLY: So I'm going to start with [Bruce Pelus]?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE, MERCK & CO., INC.: Hi, thanks for the questions and at this point, we've provided the information about when we expect the arbitration hearing to begin and the selection of the panel. We're looking at whether we can provide some additional information with respect to the process and I hope to do that in the relatively near future. We continue to believe very strongly that we've structured this transaction in a way that's appropriate for the REMICADE distribution agreement and I'll turn it over with respect to the financial targets.

PETER KELLOGG: Hi, Tim, it's Peter Kellogg. Thanks. So I don't think we've said it didn't impact one way or the other. What we said was our guidance has this contingency incorporated, so really our guidance that we've provided would be still achievable, regardless of the outcome in this arbitration or topic. And in terms of, obviously depending on the outcome, it will make that guidance number easier or more challenging, but nonetheless I think we feel comfortable with the guidance that we've provided under different scenarios.

TIM ANDERSON: And then 2010?

PETER KELLOGG: Well, for 2010, obviously, the timing is a little unclear and it would be pretty relatively late in the year, but that would be something that would have to really depend on the outcome, so I don't think we've said for 2010 it's one way or the other. I'd say, right now, what we did highlight was our guidance included REMICADE and SIMPONI in our 2010 numbers.

TIM ANDERSON: Okay, thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.

ALEX KELLY: Jami?

OPERATOR: Jami, your line is open.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hello?

ALEX KELLY: Hi, Jami.

JAMI RUBIN: Hi, can you hear me?

ALEX KELLY: Yes, we can.

JAMI RUBIN: Okay, sorry about that. A little technical difficulty. So Peter, a question for you. This quarter you beat earnings by $0.03 relative to consensus, but not letting that fall through to full year guidance and you're clipping the top end by $0.02, so is it fair to assume that the cost of European austerity measures will be about $0.05 this year and should we assume about a $0.10 hit next year since the impact will be annualized? And my second question refers to -- you didn't mention SAPHRIS, I know that was recently introduced, we didn't see sales for SAPHRIS or Tredaptive, and Ken maybe if you can update us on how you're seeing those new launches progress? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Peter, do you want to start?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure, so Jami, I think the key thing is we've obviously -- all we've done is narrowed the range for our guidance for the full year, so we really maintained the mid-point of our guidance range on EPS. Obviously we have, as I've commented and that you've pointed out, we've taken into account some of the top line pressures we see in the balance of the year. Obviously we do expect to see the pricing impact on the second half of the year. It's probably -- the way we looked at it, it's about mid single-digit range impact on our European revenues, translating that to the top line, it's probably in the neighborhood of I'm guessing about $300 million or so and obviously we have to full year annualize that next year.

The other thing is obviously ForEx now, the impact of ForEx for us is a little complex because obviously you have the ForEx impact around the world, not just Euro, but Yen and other currencies and you have to net that against our hedge program. We anticipate in the second half of the year, currency being a slight negative on our top line, probably something in the 1%, 2% range as you go through the second half of the year. Obviously those rates still move around, so those are the primary factors in addition to the healthcare reform.

So, that said, going the other way, we have a lot of activity in the-- on the expense line in the second half that will actually be driving our business going forward as we go into 2011. We'll be launching DULERA, we have a lot of activity going on in Japan launching products, having a lot of success. We will be obviously investing in the emerging markets, as you've seen announcements and we continue to grow there and obviously our pipeline, which is a big driver for us in the future continues to move forward with very nice progress. So, you can expect to see some spending in that in the second half, it;s a little more in the first half. So all those points combine to lead us to our guidance, but the most important thing is we didn't really--change the mid-point of our guidance range. We just narrowed the range as we've gone through the first half of the year.

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter. Ken?

KEN FRAZIER: So, thank you for the question, Jami. With SAPHRIS, I think we mentioned earlier, that the current performance has been affected by the stocking last year and I would say a couple of things. We continue to focus on building the brand awareness and we also are getting reasonably good unrestricted managed care access, about 65%, but the product right now I would say frankly is not where we want it to be.

On Tredaptive, I would say that obviously for us, the sales have not yet become material in Europe, but the real thing that we're doing on Tredaptive is HPS2 Thrive and creating a market in the US. I think there's still a need, a growing awareness of HDL as its impact on cardiovascular health going forward.

I would say the other issues around launches are we very pleased the way SIMPONI is going, JANUVIA is continuing to launch well around the world including Japan, BRIDION is having a spectacular launch in Japan and we look forward to DULERA. So, I would just say SAPHRIS and Tredaptive have not yet become material. We continue to think Tredaptive has a great future in the US, and we continue to work with SAPHRIS. And then I also--it was pointed out to me that I forgot to answer quickly the Chinese IP question and I would say on that one we continue to proceed carefully with respect to our assets in China to make sure that we get the benefit of that market while also protecting our IP.

JAMI RUBIN: Can I ask a quick follow-up to Dick? Dick, you spent about $1.3 billion this quarter repurchasing about 38 million shares. What are your plans for share repurchases going forward, just given the significant amount of free cash flow you're generating?

DICK CLARK: Peter, do you want to answer that?

PETER KELLOGG: Sure. So Jami, obviously we have an authorization to do up to $3 billion of share repurchase and we haven't worked our way through that entirely, so that's on our agenda going forward, obviously. We like to, generally, on an ongoing basis stabilize the shares outstanding, but then periodically step in and when we see a good opportunity to pick up some of our shares and quite frankly we see when our stock is down it is a very good way of returning cash to shareholders. We know that the focus of a lot of our key shareholders and we take that seriously as well. I think over the last five years, as we've said in the past, our track record of returning cash flow to shareholders is phenomenal. We're up in the 90%, above 90% range, so we plan to continue that.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much. Dick, I think that you, in your opening statements, made reference to the value -- continuously realizing the value of the combined companies. I'm curious exactly what you mean by that, is it just cost? And then by extension of Tim Anderson's question, would you be able to make that statement true, if in fact the arbitration does not go your way? And then as a follow-up to that, if the arbitration does go your way, how do you think about perhaps moving additional increases to the dividend? Thank you.

DICK CLARK: Thank you, Tony. Obviously, I'm not going to make any future comments on the arbitration based on the process of where we are today, but if you go back to why this is such an important merger to our Company, it's far beyond the cost synergies. Cost synergies, in many cases, is an afterthought to why we did this merger and why we're still excited about it. First of all, the most important aspect of this merger that we continue to be excited upon is that it's a late stage pipeline and the research synergies from the standpoint that you have complimentary franchises and there's not much overlap and mechanism of actions and there's great scientific and technological sharing now, that is just so important to the future of the Company. So, the first and foremost reason why this makes sense moving forward is the scientific and research pipeline and the scientific and research technology that we're sharing across mutual franchises as we move forward.

The second part of that is the product portfolio. The excitement that we see from our professional reps in country-by-country when we visit, they're about having now a combined portfolio that can really come up with the right solution for patients and physicians is just incredible. We're no longer a one trick pony when it comes to some franchises or disease states. We have a portfolio that can meet their needs and I think that capability is extremely important.

And then third, I think is the geographical footprint we have, that the geographical footprint that we combined with the two companies, as you know, is critical to the future since we're not and will not be a US centric Company. So, when you look at all of those evaluations, to us, those are the most important and obviously REMICADE and SIMPONI are important as well, but even without those two, this makes a lot of sense to us.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, if we can--we have a few more minutes so I'd like to ask the next couple of callers to please just ask one question, so we have a chance to get through as many callers as we can. Our next call, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks very much. I have a couple questions. First, with respect to SAPHRIS, can you just update us on where the reformulation process stands? And then second, you've discussed branded generics this year. I don't think that you've talked about branded generics in prior years. Could you talk about how broad of a portfolio you'd like to have in emerging markets? Thank you.

KEN FRAZIER: So on the SAPHRIS formulation issue, we're on track and we plan to launch a new black cherry version to provide patients with a different, better taste option, so that's where we are on that issue.

On the branded generics issue, as Dick mentioned before, I think it does vary very much by market-by-market, but I want to start by saying we have a very substantial branded generics business right now inside the Company with over 150 products available in the emerging markets based on the previous portfolios of the two companies. And we see brands, as I mentioned, like ZOCOR in China just growing phenomenally. So, what we intend to do is we intend to look at the branded generics business on a country-by-country basis, look at the opportunities to expand on the current portfolio of products that we have, of both our traditional established products, as well as our innovative products and we intend to build on those in ways that create value for customers as well as for Merck shareholders.

ALEX KELLY: Next question please?

OPERATOR: The next question is from Barbara Ryan with Deutsche Bank.

BARBARA RYAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. I tried to opt out, you just answered my question. Thanks a lot.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Seamus Fernandez with Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Thanks a lot. This question is actually for Peter. It might be a little bit unfair, but Peter, you had said that you'll do opportunistic repurchases when your shares are down. Would you characterize your stock as an attractive opportunity today or being down at current levels? Thanks.

ALEX KELLY: Peter?

PETER KELLOGG: Seamus, so obviously I can't comment on that, but, I think the key point is-- what I meant by opportunity is also when we have cash positions and we see the opportunity from a window standpoint, obviously for us to go into the market we have to have an open window position. So, all of those factors come into play, but I can't really comment on that.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from David Mayers with Credit Expo CLSA.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT, ANALYST: Good morning, the Sinopharm China deal looks very interesting. Can you tell us when will you start to distribute vaccines through their system? The facility that you broke ground on is that vaccines only or is that oral doses and also how many salespeople do you have in China at this point and where was that a year ago?

DICK CLARK: Your question on the new facility in Hangzhou is a pharmaceutical facility beginning with packaging of products and then moving on into manufacturing. So, that won't be completed until 2012 and we'll employ about 800 employees when we're finished. It's truly too early to make a comment about Sinopharm and the timing of it and activities like that since we're obviously in negotiations of the completed contract and so, just stay tuned on that. And we'll share that with you as soon as we can.

KEN FRAZIER: On the representative levels in China, I think our current compliment is about 5,000 people across the country. That's up about a thousand since last year, so we continue to build our salesforce and we continue to penetrate deeper and deeper into the country because it's important to be able to win at the hospital level.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, great. I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Your final question is from Eric Lo with Banc of America Merrill Lynch.

ERIC LO, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, guys. Can you run through what your product launches are in Japan over the next 12 months and also maybe second question, comment on your priorities for the consumer division? It's one of the smaller divisions, but the growth seems to be improving. Are you guys planning to grow the business through internal investments or maybe acquisitions and are there any products that you might consider divesting?

DICK CLARK: So, starting with Japan --

ALEX KELLY: Let's start with the customer first if we can.

DICK CLARK: Yes, thanks, Eric. The consumer business continues to be an important part of our strategy. Particularly outside the US, the complimentary nature of having Rx products and OTC products in many cases using the same distribution channels and wholesalers and pharmacies is extremely important to us. And I think one of our areas of growth is building the business ex-US in Europe than in emerging markets. So, we continue to think that that's an exciting growth area for us. We're investing in it as we move forward and obviously outside the US as well, there's an Rx to OTC switch capability that exists, which is also important. And there's a synergy where you can use some of the shared services capabilities between the Global Human Health division, as well as the Merck Consumer Care division and get some cost synergies at the same time. So, it's an important part of our future moving forward and, as you know, some of the products have lives of their own. CLARINEX can be an 80 to 100 year old product and still perform extremely well on a global platform. We have to resource it right and make sure we're supporting it from a promotion and we're very excited about the Consumer Care research pipeline as well.

KEN FRAZIER: So, on the Japanese launches, I'll just highlight four of them that we think are really important. ZETIA is having a very strong launch which has already gained 9% share in the Japanese market. JANUVIA, that launch is going extremely well. As we mentioned we had sales of almost $70 million this quarter, BRIDION has had a very strong initial penetration in Japan, and then lastly, we're in the midst of launching NASONEX So, we have some really strong launches under way in Japan for key products and we're very hopeful about the ongoing launches, as well as future launches that are upcoming.

ERIC LO: Okay, thanks, Ken. Thank you, everyone. That ends our second quarter earnings call. Have a good day.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc. | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i2575 : Respiratory/Allergy Treatments | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | idrugty : Drugs/Medication
   NS
c184 : Joint Ventures | cbrand : Branding | cdagr : Distribution Agreements | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | c33 : Contracts/Orders | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100813e67u001gw
  


 HD
 Q1  2010  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,258 words
   PD
4 May 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone. Welcome to Merck's First Quarter 2010 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, VP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Amanda, and good morning everyone and welcome to the 2010 First Quarter conference call for the new Merck. This is our first full quarter of combined operations so there are a number of items in the GAAP results, such as purchase accounting adjustments, merger related expenses and restructuring costs that we've excluded from our non-GAAP results. We've also excluded the impact of the tax charge related to healthcare reform as Peter Kellogg will discuss. We've provided you a number of tables in our Earnings Release to help you understand the trends and in particular there are five tables. There's a table on the GAAP sales results, table two and three deal with our reconciled GAAP P&L to our non-GAAP results. There's also a supplemental table four which provides the sales performance for the Company, the business units and the products, as if the Company had been in operation in the First Quarter of 2009 and the table five is a supplemental non-GAAP table which provides the sales for the major products. During the call we'll be referring mostly to tables two and three when we discuss the P&L and table four when we discuss the revenue performance.

I'd also like to remind you that next Tuesday, May 11, we are hosting our first R&D and business briefing and as a result we won't be discussing individual R&D projects on this call. In addition I'd like to remind you that some of the statements we make during this call today may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs of Merck's Management team and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. The Company's SEC filings including Item 1A in the 2010 -- or excuse me, 2009 10-K -- identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we make today. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. You can find the SEC filings and today's Earnings Release on our website at Merck.com.

This morning I'm joined by Dick Clark, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ken Frazier, the President of Merck and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer.

Now I'd like to introduce Dick Clark.

DICK CLARK, CHAIRMAN & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex, and good morning, everyone. Today, we reported the first full quarter of financial results for the new Merck. Our First Quarter 2010 results demonstrate early success in the integration of Merck's worldwide operations and we are well positioned to continue to grow globally and achieve our overarching goal of becoming the best healthcare Company in the world. On the top line, the Company recorded worldwide sales of $11.4 billion for the First Quarter. Earnings per share for the First Quarter on a non-GAAP basis was $0.83 versus $0.74 for the last year's First Quarter for the standalone Merck, so you can see that our merger is already producing positive results. These results reflect the new Merck's expanded global footprint and the strong sales performance of key brands including Januvia, Janumet, Remicade, Singulair, Isentress, and Temodar.

I think you can see from our results that we are focused on driving revenue growth, maintaining the momentum of the business, and reducing our cost structure. In a few moments Ken will provide you with additional details around our specific global product performance. In today's announcement, we shared our financial targets for the full year 2010 and also reaffirmed our long range financial target. Peter will have more to say about our financial outlook in just a few minutes. On the integration front, we remain on course and continue to build momentum on multiple fronts. We have accomplished a lot in just six months.

In the First Quarter, we moved rapidly on executing our integration plans while maintaining our business momentum, growing the top line this quarter by 7%. We announced with Sanofi-Aventis our plan to create a global leader in Animal Health by combining Intervet/Schering-Plough with Merial into a proposed new joint venture that will be equally owned by Merck and Sanofi-Aventis. We completed the prioritization of our R&D portfolio. Merck now has one of the industries best pipelines with more than 20 compounds in late stage development. And we are well into the implementation of our previously announced global restructuring program. This includes the full integration of Commercial Operations in 12 out of our top 20 markets around the world.

I've also spent quite a bit of time in the past few months meeting with employees, customers, and other key external stakeholders at various sites around the world and what I saw was exciting. It is clear to me that there's considerable energy and disciplined thinking going on at Merck to insure that we capture the many opportunities before us. Already, I am seeing signs of a more productive and sustainable culture beginning to emerge. We are intensely focused on what will add value and most importantly, satisfy our customers needs by providing them with innovative distinctive products and services that save and improve lives, and today, given our expanded worldwide presence and broader product portfolio, many more individuals have access to the valuable and diverse set of healthcare solution Merck provides than they did just a few months ago.

Turning to US healthcare reform, while the legislation passed by Congress in March is not perfect, we continue to believe that overall, it will have a positive impact. Ultimately, the legislation passed will insure that 32 million more Americans will have access to critical healthcare products and services. That's why we believe that healthcare reform, while not without its cost, will position Merck to better help patients to obtain the medicine and vaccines they need. For a Company like Merck with a long history in vaccines we are particularly pleased to see first-dollar coverage of preventive services and vaccines for all new plans commencing in October 2010. Also defining the data exclusivity period for biologics is 12 years, will help protect innovation that our Company has and will generate. I believe that protecting innovation goes hand in hand with expanding access to millions of Americans in need for healthcare because our innovation can improve their care and reduce overall cost. We intend to remain on top of the issues related to healthcare reform and support our customers as we all navigate these significant changes to the US healthcare system.

No matter what challenges we may face from generic competition to the new requirements of healthcare reform, we are prepared to tackle them because we understand it's truly because to be the best healthcare Company in the world we must execute on many levels. We will continue to remain intensely focused throughout the rest of this year and beyond on executing our strategy, discovering new therapies, successfully launching new products, and delivering growth from our inline products throughout the world. At the same time we remain committed to achieving our merger synergy target of $3.5 billion in annual savings in 2012. We look forward to telling you more about our accomplishments, our pipeline, and our areas of opportunity next week at our R&D and business briefing.

Before I turn the call over to Ken, I want to say a few words about the senior leadership announcements we made last week. As you know, Ken was elected President of Merck, with responsibility for our three largest operating divisions -- Global Human Health, Merck Manufacturing Division, and Merck Research Laboratories. We also announced that Adam Schechter also was elected to succeed Ken as President of World Human Health. I'm very confident that Ken and Adam are the right leaders and that these changes further strengthen an already outstanding senior leadership team. As CEO and Chairman, I remain fully committed to Merck and with Ken to steering the Company through this critical post-merger launch phase and positioning us for success in the future. Now I'll turn it over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, PRESIDENT, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Dick. At the outset please allow me to say that I'm actually deeply deeply honored to have been asked to serve in this new role because I believe so passionately in the Company and its people and its mission. I look forward to working with you, Dick, Peter Kim, Willie Deese and all of the rest of my Senior Management colleagues to help ensure that we deliver on the full promise of the merger and achieve sustainable performance going forward.

As Dick mentioned we are off to a great start in 2010. Overall, Global Human Health delivered a strong quarter with sales of $9.8 billion which represents 6% growth on a supplemental combined non-GAAP basis from the previous year. In describing our First Quarter performance, please note that I will refer to supplemental combined non-GAAP results which includes the impact of foreign exchange for the rest of my comments. While my focus today is to review the strong performance of the Global Human Health business during the First Quarter, I do want to make a few comments about the focus and resilience our marketing and sales team showed in delivering these strong results at the same time we were integrating our operations and markets around the world.

As I shared with you during the Fourth Quarter call, we fully integrated our US customer facing organization in January and since then, we've made substantial progress in a number of other markets. As we integrated our customer facing groups, our primary focus was on minimizing customer disruption in order to maintain business momentum while at the same time becoming both more effective and more efficient. Throughout the First Quarter, our commercial teams around the world were required to take time off territory, for brand and portfolio training as we merged the portfolios of the two legacy companies. Nonetheless, I believe it is clear from the First Quarter results that our salesforce is focused on the customers and the new portfolio opportunities available to them. I think what our customer facing organization achieved was outstanding -- fully integrated, trained, energized and refocused teams in a number of our major markets that delivered strong results. We'll share additional insights into the progress we're making across the business next week during our R&D and business briefing meeting.

For the rest of today's call, I'll focus my comments on our First Quarter performance. We drove growth in most of our markets and international sales grew at 10% in the First Quarter. Taking a look at our largest markets, we drove growth in nine of our top ten countries and seven of the top ten grew at double digit rates. We also continue to see double digit growth in our core emerging markets. We will discuss our emerging market strategy at the business briefing next week also.

Turning to individual brand performance, we continue to see broad based growth with eight of our top ten product families growing in the First Quarter. As I address the individual product performance, you can feel free to follow along in table three from our supplemental financial package. Starting with Singulair, sales in the First Quarter were $1.2 billion, an increase of 10% versus the prior year. Singulair's growth was largely driven by strong performance in Japan and double digit growth across the emerging markets. In the US, the allergy season in the First Quarter was generally mild and comparable to the previous year; however, we started to see pollen counts intensify in late March. One of our main priorities following the close of the merger was to rapidly and effectively co-position the products in our respiratory portfolio. As the allergy season accelerated in March and April, our teams leveraged our broad respiratory portfolio to drive volume growth. In addition to the growth of Singulair, sales of Nasonex grew 4% to $320 million driven by results in the EU, Japan, and the emerging markets.

Moving to Januvia and Janumet, global revenue grew 32% to a combined $172 million. The Januvia franchise continues its strong performance despite the introduction of new branded competition and the continued utilization of generics, because Januvia has a differentiated label and brings real benefit to patients with Type II Diabetes. Sales in the US grew 16% this quarter. We continue to invest in the promotion of Januvia and Janumet to maintain our leadership position in the diabetes market and to grow this franchise. We are focused on highlighting the strong value proposition of Januvia versus sulfonylureas. We also plan to capitalize on the new label changes for Januvia which includes the label change to allow use with insulin. We believe this represents a significant opportunity for growth and differentiation going forward. Outside the US, we continue to see growth in the EU and the launch of Januvia in Japan is tracking well. Due to the strong product profile and significant labeling advantages, we expect that this franchise will continue to be a major growth driver for Merck.

Our immunology franchise also achieved strong growth during the quarter. Remicade continues to be a leading immunologic therapy. Sales in the quarter were $674 million, an increase of 30% from the previous year. Remicade continues to deliver growth across all indications -- rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology. In rheumatology, Remicade is maintaining its market share despite multiple new product launches in the class. In fact we're seeing some benefit in Remicade's performance from the launch of Simponi which I'll discuss shortly. Remicade's market share and growth in the GI indications remains class leading. In April, the New England Journal of Medicine published the SONIC study. SONIC showed that patients with Crohn's disease were more likely to achieve steroid free clinical remission with Remicade compared to patients taking Azathioprine. Moving to Simponi, while we're still in the early stages of the launches we're encouraged by the quick adoption in key markets where we have reimbursement. We are driving Simponi primarily to take share from Humira and Enbrel, not Remicade. In addition to the five countries where we currently have reimbursement, we plan to launch Simponi in many of the other EU markets and key emerging markets in the second half of this year. We continue to view Remicade and Simponi as significant growth drivers.

Turning to Zetia and Vytorin, sales were $1 billion this quarter which in the aggregate represents 2% growth compared to the previous year. Sales in the US declined due to market share erosion and movements in inventory. Vytorin and Zetia remain a key focus of our promotional efforts this year. We continue to see solid growth in many markets outside the US and are encouraged by the performance of our teams in the EU and Japan. Moving on to Cozaar/Hyzaar, as you know, the brands recently lost marketing exclusivity in the US and most major EU markets. Globally, sales in the First Quarter were down 7%. Recent weekly prescription data in the US indicates that there has been rapid erosion of the brands now that we're no longer enjoying market exclusivity.

I will now move to our vaccine business. In the First Quarter, the vaccine business benefited from an inventory build of approximately $75 million to $100 million. First Quarter sales of Zostavax as reported by Merck were $95 million, a 27% increase from the previous year. We did see an inventory build due to the timing of customer orders in the First Quarter. While demand remains high for Zostavax, we continue to be constrained by supply. Moving to Gardasil, sales as reported by Merck in the First Quarter were $233 million, an 11% decline. Gardasil continues to maintain market share leadership in the US and also remains the global market leader. In infectious diseases, Isentress continues its outstanding launch performance and is now one of Merck's top ten brands. Sales in the First Quarter were $232 million, an increase of 57%. The continued growth of Isentress reflects the unique efficacy and tolerability profile of this product which has been widely embraced by physicians, patients, and health organizations.

In closing, I want to thank my colleagues across the new Merck for a successful quarter. Since the close of the merger, I've spent a great deal of time with our teams and our customers around the world in the US, Latin America, UK, Greece, Italy, Switzerland, and other places, and while growing our business in the midst of integration was an enormous challenge, the progress and enthusiasm of our teams to build a new commercial organization that embodies the best of legacy Schering-Plough and Merck commercial organizations, with minimal customer disruption was truly a tribute to the organization's focus and execution. I look forward to updating you all on our progress during the business briefing next week. We've had another strong quarter and I think our review of the business will help you better appreciate exactly what is driving this success.

And so now it is my pleasure to pass the call over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken, and good morning. As you've heard from Dick and Ken, we are pleased with our First Quarter performance and our integration efforts are well under way. Ken shared with you how our key brands contributed to our strong growth this quarter. I would like to cover two areas with you. First, our earnings performance this quarter and second I will provide some commentary on our targets -- for full year 2010 and beyond that, our long term EPS target. So let's begin with our results.

This is the First Quarter that we are reporting a full three months of results for the combined Company. You'll see in the tables in our news release and supplemental charts that we added last quarter to help you navigate through our non-GAAP adjustments to the P&L which exclude purchase price accounting adjustments, merger related costs, restructuring charges, and a $150 million tax charge, related to the elimination of a tax benefit for retiree prescription drug coverage. To simplify my remarks today, I will speak mostly to the non-GAAP results. On this basis, the new Merck reported First Quarter non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.83. Our performance this quarter is characterized by the strong operational sales that Ken just discussed. The cost management and benefits of merger synergies in our cost base, lower equity income from partnerships, due to the elimination of Merial and the cholesterol joint ventures, and lower interest income and higher interest expense due to the merger financing. In addition, we also had about a 4% benefit from foreign exchange on the top line which also had the effect of increasing our operating expenses. So let's get into some of the individual items beginning with revenue.

Total revenue for the quarter was $11.4 billion. On a supplemental combined non-GAAP basis, sales were up 7%. This basis assumes that Schering-Plough and the cholesterol joint venture were included for all three months in the First Quarter 2009 as well. Our Global Human Health business grew 6% in the quarter. Our animal business grew 14% to $709 million, reflecting continued growth among companion animal and poultry products. Meanwhile, our Consumer Care sales were $379 million, slightly lower than prior year due to the launch purchases of Claritin Liqui-Gels in the First Quarter of 2009.

Now, moving on to the expense items in the P&L. As you know, our cost base now includes the cost from Schering-Plough, Merck and the cholesterol joint venture, whereas only the Merck costs were included in the First Quarter 2009 so it's a little hard to see underlying trends. So this quarter though, we reduced our headcount, we generated savings from procurement actions, and discontinued certain R&D projects through our pipeline prioritization process. As a result of these and other actions we are on track to realize our $3.5 billion synergy target by the end of 2012. Over time I am confident that you will see even more evidence that our costs are coming down. So let's move on to materials and production. The non-GAAP gross margin in the First Quarter was approximately 75% which was similar to the rate in the First Quarter of 2009 when Merck was a standalone Company. On a non-GAAP basis, Marketing and Administrative expenses in the First Quarter were $3.2 billion while Research and Development expenses for the First Quarter were approximately $2 billion, slightly lower than we expected. Included in the R&D expenses this quarter was continued investment in late stage projects such as TRA, Boceprivir, Odanacatib, Cordaptive, and our CETP inhibitor.

Let's move to equity income. In the First Quarter Merck recorded $138 million of equity income, a $450 million decline over the prior year. This decline is primarily attributable to the unwind of the cholesterol joint venture and the sale of Merial. There was also a $43 million decline in income from the AZLP partnership. Now, as you're aware, AstraZeneca gave us notice of their intent to exercise their option to buy the non-PPI products which will result in a one-time gain of approximately $440 million in the Second Quarter. This gain will not be included in our non-GAAP results. Going forward, Merck equity income will be earned from three partnerships -- AZLP, our vaccine joint venture with Sanofi in Europe and the J&J/Merck OTC partnership. Beginning in 2011, we expect to also have equity income from our new Animal Health joint venture once it is completed. Until that time we continue to own and consolidate the Intervet/Schering-Plough business in our full P&L. This quarter's equity income is a good barometer of the anticipated quarterly income in 2010.

Now let's discuss other income and expense. In the First Quarter of 2010 other expense on a non-GAAP basis is $160 million compared to other income of $80 million in the First Quarter of 2009. There are a few items driving this year-over-year change. First, and most notably, is the inclusion of interest expense from the Schering-Plough debt and the merger related debt. Second, interest income was lower as a result of lower interest rates and lower cash and investment balances. Third, the current quarter's expense includes an $80 million exchange loss as a result of the currency devaluation in Venezuela and the translation of assets in Venezuela on our balance sheet. Lastly, a favorable settlement of a dispute contributed approximately $100 million to the line. Moving to the tax line, the new Merck non-GAAP tax rate was 23% for the First Quarter. This is consistent with the rate that we saw in 2009 on a full year basis excluding discrete items. So, that's the First Quarter, a strong start for the new Merck.

Now, let's talk about our financial targets beginning with our long term targets. We remain very excited about the future of the new Merck and we continue to target a high single digit non-GAAP EPS compound annual growth rate from 2009 to 2013 regardless of the outcome of the Remicade arbitration. As we indicated in our press release on April 23, this guidance is also still applicable despite the anticipated impacts from healthcare reform. So specifically, in 2010, the Company is targeting a full year 2010 non-GAAP EPS range of $3.27 to $3.41 excluding certain items. On a GAAP basis we are targeting an EPS range of $1.15 to $1.50. We have also provided guidance on the reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP EPS on page three of our news release. Our 2010 EPS target and other financial targets assume that Merck retains full rights to Remicade and Simponi in our markets.

Now I'd like to provide targets in a few select areas to help you better understand the earnings targets. First beginning with the sales line. We are launching an impressive number of new products globally and we anticipate that sales from these new products combined with strong growth in our key brands -- Januvia, Isentress, Remicade and Singulair, will replace the significant sales loss from patent expiries this year. Cozaar/Hyzaar would represent the third major patent expiry after Zocor in 2006 and Fosamax in 2008, that Merck has grown through in the years of expiry. We anticipate full year 2010 sales to be in the range of $45.4 billion to $46.4 billion at current exchange rates. This range reflects the unfavorable $170 million impact from the healthcare reform as previously discussed on April 23. Now let's discuss R&D. In 2010, we will continue to invest in our late stage pipeline. We are also driving efficiencies through the combined R&D infrastructure. We anticipate full year non-GAAP R&D expense to be in the range of $8.3 billion to $8.7 billion. Moving to the tax line, we anticipate a non-GAAP tax rate in the range of 22% to 24% in 2010.

So let me summarize. We are pleased with our strong First Quarter results. We clearly had a stronger than expected First Quarter and our expense management contributed to that performance. Three other factors contributed to our strong First Quarter performance. First, we had about $75 million to $100 million in US inventory build in the vaccines area; second, our R&D expenses were lower than expected due to timing of clinical trials. We do expect to make up that spending in subsequent quarters of 2010 and currently target R&D expenses of $8.3 billion to $8.7 billion as I just mentioned, which implies higher quarterly spending going forward. Finally, foreign exchange gave us a lift this quarter and we don't expect the same degree of benefit going forward based on current forex rates. Our results in the targets provided demonstrate that we are on track to have a good first full year as a combined Company. We expect to continue our business momentum for key brands, launch products globally, and make significant investment in our promising late stage pipeline, and we expect to realize substantial cost synergies.

Thank you. Now I'll turn the call back over to Alex. Alex?

ALEX KELLY: Thank you, Peter. Now we would like to open up the call to answer your questions.

In order to help us get through as many of your questions as possible, please limit yourself to one or two questions and note that we won't take any follow-up questions, but feel free to join the queue if you have additional questions. Also as a reminder to what I said at the beginning of the call, we will take your R&D related questions next Tuesday during our R&D and business briefing.

Operator, we're now ready for the Q&A.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Your first question is from John Boris of Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITI: Thanks for taking the questions. First question just for Peter Kellogg, just on your cash flow, can you comment on what your cash flows were in the First Quarter and any color around what cash flow targets could potentially be for the new Company in 2010.

And then a question for Ken. Congratulations on your broader responsibilities as you do take on those broader responsibilities, can you outline what your top three priorities will be going forward as you now assume responsibility for Human Health, Manufacturing, R&D, etc.? Thanks.

PETER KELLOGG: Hi, John, it's Peter. So unfortunately, we really hesitate to talk about cash flow and the balance sheet on this call until the 10-Q goes out, so if I can, I'd defer on that. But I would focus everyone back on where we were at year-end, obviously from a cash balance standpoint and we do expect to obviously have strong cash flows. I think at year-end and as we go through this quarter we have roughly about $12 billion in cash and about $19 billion of debt and we expect to have very strong cash flow performance even this first year of the merger. And we've highlighted that by the end of the guidance period we actually expect that cash flow to be very strong operational cash flow by that time period so that all still is instead. The second question for Ken I guess.

KEN FRAZIER: Yes. Thanks, John. I would say that my top three priorities are first of all to continue to work with Dick, with Peter, and to Willie, and in this vein, to actually learn a lot from the three of them regarding the new areas of responsibility that I have, so that would be my first responsibility. The second one is obviously to insure that these three operating divisions continue to collaborate and work jointly in order to produce value and I would say the third one is continuing to push for the kind of product performance that we've seen in the First Quarter. We're still in the middle of integrating many of our markets and while my colleague Adam Schechter is very able, I think we want to make sure we have a seamless transition on the commercial side.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Marc Goodman with UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, hi. You mentioned that there was inventory changes in Zetia and Vitorin. Can you just help quantify that and second of all in the diabetes market -- DPP-4 class -- I would have expected this market to be growing a little bit faster. Can you comment on what's happening with your competitor launch coming in, usually we see a second player coming in and market starts to expand faster. We're not really seeing that and your thoughts on just the GLP-1's and how Victosis had an impact at all and how these longer acting are going to play into the impact of DPP-4's over time. Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: So I think on Vitorin and Zetia, I think we saw inventory patterns this quarter that we thought were consistent with our expectations and consistent with what we saw frankly in the First Quarter of 2009. As it relates to the oral diabetes market, we are very pleased that Januvia and Janumet continue to grow very strongly. They have shown strongest growth in that market. Remember that we are up against established entrenched generic entities that are used by a lot of physicians and that's our primary focus. We're pleased with the in-class market share that we've maintained in the US against [on glize] and around the world against other DPP-4 inhibitors and I think what you're seeing with the new classes is that while you have seen Victosia have some end roads they are really not at the expense of Januvia.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you. Just going back to Januvia, you mentioned that being a growth driver for Merck but if I look at what you reported in the Q in the quarter for the US, it was flat with Third Quarter and it was below Fourth Quarter levels. Janumet pretty much the same thing -- so it's not clear to me how the US is going to be a driver of growth going forward -- so I'm just wondering if you can clarify that. And then on Vitorin and Zetia, I know those products have been through a lot, but can we get an update on the timing of the Sharp trial that if I remember correctly should be coming out in the current year.

KEN FRAZIER: So starting on the Sharp trial, I think we'll be able to provide that information next week at our business briefing. As it relates to again the issue around Januvia and Janumet in the First Quarter, sequentially we also experienced a pretty strong inventory build in the Fourth Quarter and we're seeing some adjustment downward in this quarter. I think overall we're pleased though with the volume growth of Januvia and Janumet across markets.

ALEX KELLY: Next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Eric Lo with Bank of America.

ERIC LO, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning guys. Two questions. First on reform. In terms of your guidance for next year of $300 million to $350 million in revenue impact -- so hoping you guys could potentially break that down between what the industry fee is and what your assumptions are in terms of Part D -- the donut hole impact -- and also how much of that might actually fall to the bottom line.

Second question is on your geographic sales, I notice you guys book out what your sales were in terms of Latin America, Asia-Pac and Eastern Europe. I was hoping you guys could provide some color in terms of what the sales growth year-over-year was and how that compares to pro forma 2009 sales growth and maybe some color in terms of possibility in these regions -- maybe rank order them?

DICK CLARK: Certainly from your question with healthcare reform although we don't give specific breakdown of details, we can say about 50% is from Medicaid rebate and 50% from fee and the donut hole plus the [340D], that's the breakdown, so about a 50/50 break down.

KEN FRAZIER: And as it relates to the regional breakdown that we provided in table 3B this quarter I would say that we're pleased with the double digit growth that we're seeing across Latin America, Asia Pacific and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa. Everyone has a different definition of emerging markets but if you look at those three together, you had growth of in the high teens and so we are pleased with where we are. We know that that is where the growth is for this industry going forward. We are very focused on getting more than our per capita share of that growth. We want to grow faster than those markets and we'll talk next week at the business briefing about our strategies for ensuring that we do get that kind of growth so thank you.

ALEX KELLY: Next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks very much. Just wanted to offer my congratulations as well to management on the promotions and a couple questions. First of all, with respect to the Second Quarter sequentially, I know that you don't provide guidance but can you please just run through -- and I know you mentioned some anomalies in the First Quarter -- but could you please run through how we should think about the Second Quarter sequentially in terms of revenue and EPS trends.

And then second, another revenue question. Could you just talk to the revenue outlook longer term -- so you've provided high single digit EPS growth guidance but it's unclear if you're assuming revenue growth from 2010 to 2013 or revenue to be flat, so if you could provide some color on that, that would be helpful.

PETER KELLOGG: Great. So hi, David. This is Peter. So the First Quarter obviously we did a little better than we thought and some of the factors that I mentioned were net build in our US vaccines inventory out in the channels and that was through a multitude of different effects. Some of it was the fact that we are seeing some increased customer purchasing of vaccines because we were going live on SAP in the beginning of April. Some of it was actually advanced purchasing of Zostavax due to some concerns about the fact we mentioned there might be some backorders so people were picking up some inventory. And probably we would expect that not to be sustained as we go forward so in the Second Quarter you'd probably see that balance out -- we don't have a perfect crystal ball on that but it would be reasonable for that I think.

The second thing is that as I mentioned the R&D expenses were a little lower than we would have expected but really everything is still moving ahead. I just think that we maybe didn't quite get the exact calendarization right. We did give you the full year guidance or target of $8.3 billion to $8.7 billion and obviously the math will tell you that implies higher quarterly spending going forward. And then third, we've got a nice benefit from foreign exchange in the First Quarter which I don't think we get quite as much of in going forward in the balance of the year. In fact I think the foreign exchange rates are moving a little bit as we speak and obviously that's a volatile setting right now. I think obviously we do have some seasonality in our revenue and I think that probably that will cause the second half of the year to look a little stronger. And likewise we're seeing Cozaar/Hyzaar as we mentioned earlier went off patent and so that really as Ken mentioned started to have a very strong impact in Q2, Q3, & Q4. What we mentioned on the Q4 call was that we did see that the second half of the year will be a little bit stronger than the first half and we do think that continues to be true from a calendarization standpoint.

On a longer term basis we haven't guided to revenue. We've focused on EPS -- there's obviously a lot of moving parts here and so I don't want to just quickly give guidance on the revenue line. I think obviously everyone knows very clearly what all of the different moving parts are and we're launching a lot of products, we have a lot of exciting late stage pipeline items. We've got some inline commercial assets as Ken has talked about have tremendous potential so exactly where those land is hard to call. Going against that obviously we're in a challenging global economy right now with a lot of fiscal budgets and governments trying to manage through that. So at this point what we do know is we have the right levers in place through putting these two companies together to manage the EPS guidance and we think we're in very good shape on that. I don't know if Dick or Ken you want to add anything?

KEN FRAZIER: No, thank you very much for the comments earlier on. I would say that from a commercial standpoint, obviously we believe that this is a very strong portfolio when you put these products together and we are very much committed to driving very strong growth within the portfolio, without making any specific comments around guidance. I want you to know that our commercial organization believes in this portfolio, they are motivated and I think that we are seeing the beginning of some benefits from putting these products together, for example, in the respiratory portfolio this quarter when you look at Singulair's performance and you look at Nasonex performance from a volume and share basis recently I actually think we're starting to see some benefits.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Just a few questions. First, for you, Peter. After the Fourth Quarter call you've signaled a very weak first half followed by a very strong second half, sounds to me like based on the pushes and pulls with R&D, currency, et cetera, that we should now expect a more even quarters throughout the year.

Second question for you, Dick, is given your strong operational cash flow, curious to know how you are thinking about the dividend -- which I would point out hasn't been raised since 2004 because of the Vioxx overhang which has been lifted now long ago.

And third question for Ken and again, I offer my congratulations to you too, Ken, if you can provide us any color on the reimbursement environment for Simponi, it would be great if you could share with us what your revenues were but more importantly, what is the tenor of discussions with European regulators given the economic budget crisis and some of the reform programs that we've seen put in place such as in Germany, thanks.

PETER KELLOGG: Jami, I'll go first. On the calendarization of this year, obviously we did hit the signal on the Fourth Quarter call -- we thought the first half would be weaker and we did get some benefits in the First Quarter. Part of it was just good expense management and some of the inventory build that we talked about certainly helped and we got a nice forex impact as well. We do expect the second half to be slightly stronger than the first half and I think Q2 -- be cautious that the inventories may reverse but overall though, versus what we originally thought, I think you're right that the quarters won't be quite as different as we first thought because we obviously weren't anticipating a weaker First Quarter. Dick?

DICK CLARK: Certainly, Jami, from a dividend standpoint and we look at it from a total dollar value is that the dividend will sharply increase particularly through the Schering-Plough shareholders and based on the merger that took place. And so there has been an increase.

But just as important as we look forward to our cash flow and we look forward how do we continue to invest in the Company and think about the dividend and think about share buyback, this is something that as a part of our strategic review it's something we will consider in the future.

KEN FRAZIER: And thank you, Jami, for your comments. On Simponi, the sales in the quarter were about $10 million which is roughly double the sales that we saw in the Fourth Quarter. We're still very much in the early days. We have reimbursement in five countries -- we have Germany, the private part of the Canadian market.

I think what I would say about the overall background is obviously, all these European countries are struggling with budgetary issues, including healthcare issues. We know that the anti-TNF category is a significant cost item to them, but we think Simponi really brings to the table a lot of benefits and so for us right now, it's actually going in with the dossiers that we prepared which we feel very good about to convince both national and regional price and HTA provisions -- organizations -- to actually see the benefit of Simponi, its convenience and its benefit to patients. And so we're very confident that over time we'll be able to persuade people to include Simponi within the reimbursement but I have to say that it's a very difficult economic environment in which we are launching this drug.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Steve Scala with Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN: Thank you, I have two questions. First, Dick you started by saying healthcare reform will have a positive impact. Are you saying that reform will be accretive to Merck profits over the long term so that's the first question.

Secondly, regarding the impact of Remicade and Golimumab on 2010 guidance, would you say that guidance will only change if you lose arbitration or will it change if you settle as well? In other words, must Merck win arbitration to maintain guidance? I appreciate that the answer requires knowledge of any proposed but not public settlement, so based on any proposed but not public settlement now contemplated, would guidance change? Thank you.

PETER KELLOGG: Do you want to take the second question first? Steve, how you doing this is Peter.

So I think first of all to clarify we're really not making any comments about the Remicade situation at all. Obviously we have indicated that that will start to come together in September, late September and so by the time that is sorted through, I think we're through a lot of the year anyway. And I think that's the spirit in which we said as you think about guidance for 2010 assume that Remicade and Simponi are in our portfolio for most of this year. I just would like to highlight there's a lot of pluses or minuses in any given year at the revenue line, so I wouldn't go too far on that.

And then long term, as we said a year ago and we announced this merger, we have thought about our long term guidance so that the EPS guidance we're providing is achievable with or without the Remicade/Simponi portfolio just to settle those questions or concerns as people think about the financial prospects of the Company. On healthcare reform?

DICK CLARK: It's hard to tell yet when you think about all of the details that need to be rolled out with healthcare reform, what it does long term. Having said that though, I am optimistic because we are a Company that focuses on innovation -- and if innovation has unmet medical needs that are being satisfied, certainly there are patients both in Medicare and (inaudible) not covered today that will need our medicines or vaccines in the future. There's a stronger component within the donut hole that people don't have to go off their medicines. As we continue to think about our Merck bioventures and biologics in the future, that the fact that we've got the type of patent protection you need from the innovation standpoint is important. The first day coverage for prevention and vaccines is important.

So there are enough positives on one side of the equation even though there are fees and increased Medicaid rebates on the other side that you would think over time that as healthcare reform is put in place and that we are a major component to help reduce healthcare costs by innovation and by prevention that it would be positive for the Company.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Catherine Arnold with Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks very much and good morning. I wanted to ask Dick if you could give us an update. You have made a couple of comments in the past about Merck's mindset on acquisitions and I guess I wondered what you thought they were going to bear in regards to transaction size and timing as you move through the integration. And if you could specify whether interest is primarily in pharmaceuticals or whether you would also be considering augmenting non-pharma or increasing your diversification.

And then I had a follow-up on your dividend comment. I just wondered if you could give us a sense for your preferential interest in dividend increase versus share repurchase. Thanks.

DICK CLARK: Well certainly from an acquisition standpoint, our focus right now has to be on execution. We have a tremendous opportunity here to bring two very important assets together from a merger standpoint. And whether -- as Ken said -- that we're integrating from a commercial standpoint in the top 20 markets we've already integrated across our top 12 of the 20, whether it is bringing our network together or our portfolio together, it's very very important as we go forward. So we can't lose focus around the capabilities both on the top line and the cost standpoint around this valuable merger that we're putting together and so that is extremely important. And then we have this very strong pipeline that we have to continue to build both internally because we have a strong late stage development process in place but we're always looking externally to make sure that from a licensing or an acquisition -- whether it's something that will help our individual franchises move forward -- and so that's important as well.

Having said that, Animal Health, consumer health, what we're doing in emerging markets are very critical to us as part of our strategy and we will continue to look at those as being an important part of organic as well as inorganic growth. I don't see diversification outside of that core as important but as we continue to grow on the global stage, it's important that we build our global presence in many of the divisions I just talked about so I think that's important.

On your question concerning dividends or share buyback, they're very important to us and it's very difficult at this stage of bringing the companies together and where we are from a cash flow to really tell you a priority on that.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Chris Schott with JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks. First question just following up on business development. Many of your former peers are obviously making a big push in the emerging markets -- I know Merck is doing that as well -- but expanding their generic or brand generic portfolio as a way to target some of these opportunities. Can you just talk a little bit about Merck's efforts on this front and interest in expanding its generic core burn, generic portfolio and then a second question on currency. Can you just give us a little bit more color on what exchange rates and EPS impact is reflected in the 2010 guidance you provided this morning? I know Merck and Schering had different hedging policies, can you also update us on the policy of the newly combined Company as it relates to currency hedges, thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: So thanks, Chris, for your question on emerging markets. As I mentioned we intend to spend some time next week going through our strategy but generally speaking I would say that we continue to look at all opportunities to have profitable growth in the emerging Markets, so that includes obviously continuing to drive our innovative portfolio but also we recognize that branded generics or should I say branded off patent products actually play a significant role.

We have in our own portfolio a significant number of key brands -- let's talk about Zocor or [crosop] or Cozaar or Fosamax -- those are very significant contributors to the standard of care and they are really in our portfolio and one of the things that we got from the Schering merger is the capability of really driving those kinds of mature products through formulations, et cetera, so that's a big part of it. Lastly in terms of expanding the portfolio, we do have interest in creating the kinds of partnerships that would actually also expand the number of products in the representative's bags -- we have really expanded our commercial infrastructure and so we look for those kinds of partnerships but again, against the background of ensuring that we are driving profitable growth in the emerging markets.

PETER KELLOGG: So hi, Chris, this is Peter. Let me talk about the foreign exchange questions and hedging. So we did highlight that foreign exchange did give us a benefit this quarter and based on the current rates we don't expect the same benefit going forward as we go through sequential quarters and that's obviously comparing to prior year. And I will just remind everybody obviously last year was a very volatile year for foreign exchange rates because it moved tremendously from the First Quarter through the Third and Fourth Quarters so we have to take that all into account and that's the basis we were saying mostly to be thinking about the current rates you're out there in terms of how we think about the outlook.

In terms of hedging, we do have -- the two companies did have slightly different programs -- as the merger took place, we have thought about how we put that together and I think you will see that we'll continue to use hedging as one of the tools to help us manage the business. We had about a $200 million favorable impact from foreign exchange this quarter and included a benefit from hedging of about $50 million and there have been some changes as we put the Company together in terms of how we run that program -- it's fairly technical really so it really isn't too meaningful from an investor standpoint. But we do continue to believe that the hedging program is helpful to reduce the impact of unfavorable changes and particularly in the short-term bopping around on foreign exchange as well if it gives us more of a longer term stability to the value of the US dollar performance. So we think that we'll continue for the most part with that kind of a program going forward.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Operator, we have time more just two more questions, if I can ask the people asking questions to be brief. And we'll try to be brief on our end to make sure we get through the next two.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Seamus Fernandez with Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thanks very much and congratulations to Ken and Adam on their promotions. Just a quick question on the manufacturing side. Can you update us on the manufacturing situation with the vaccines and timing of when we should expect a full return to steady state in terms of vaccine manufacturing.

And then separately, can you update us on what's happening with RotaTeq versus Rotarix and should we expect a recovery or even an acceleration in sales or are you actually seeing some concerns on the part of pediatricians such that they are slowing purchases because of any safety fears? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: So, I would say first of all on RotaTeq, we actually have not seen significant concerns arising from pediatricians about the overall safety of Rotovirus vaccines so we anticipate being able to supply the market adequately to meet the US demand during the Rotarix temporary suspension. The overall vaccine manufacturing issues -- I'll hit the high points. Obviously we are investing a significant amount -- over $1 billion -- in new resources to assure that we have long term supply capabilities and our North Carolina facility which exemplifies that begins operations in Mid 2010.

For Zostavax, we've had it in supply since 2009 but we're now seeing backorders. No new launches are planned outside the US for 2010 or 2011. Recombivax pediatric became fully available this past quarter, [P-Vax sib] is now fully available in the US market and we expect even ProQuad available in limited amounts to support the back-to-school season. And I also should mention that on the RotoTeq, there will be a vaccine advisory committee this Friday and obviously I think everyone in public health will be waiting to see the impact of those deliberations. Okay, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your final question is from Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much. Ken, you mentioned nine of ten countries grew. Which one did not? You also mentioned seven of ten had double digits, three did not. Can you comment which three those were and were those -- out of those four countries -- were they above or below plan.

And then second, Peter and I'm sorry to beat this horse, the revenue guidance you gave [45.4 to 46.4] for the year, is that at current exchange rates, does that assume that doesn't turn negative in the second half and I apologize to hit this again but I just want to be sure, thank you.

ALEX KELLY: We'll go with Peter first on that question.

PETER KELLOGG: Okay, so Tony, I guess the comment I was making about foreign exchange was simply what's the basis of the guidance and I think that any time we give guidance we aren't really forecasting foreign exchange rates so it's really based on the deal play as we see it right now. And the second question was regarding how revenue will perform the second half I think was your question -- so obviously we haven't given guidance by quarter and so forth so I'm a little hesitant but I think what I think is fair to say is that we are launching a lot of products on the one hand. We have the organic growth of our core stable of commercial products around the world.

On the other hand we have Cozaar/Hyzaar going off patent so we'll see that impact particularly in the Second Quarter pushing against our trend. In the second half though hopefully everything else keeps growing so I don't want to give specific guidance by quarter on the top line but that gives you some of the factors that are pushing one way or the other on revenue and forex I think obviously everybody -- no one pulls out the crystal ball to play as we see it right now.

KEN FRAZIER: So Tony, we don't usually disclose or talk about our internal plans but what I can tell you is the one country in the top ten that didn't grow this quarter was Italy and I will say that it didn't miss by an awful lot getting to the point of being at least flat this quarter. So those are very difficult environments and I want to point out in Europe, often you have volume growth but because of the pricing pressures you see not growth on a dollar basis.

DICK CLARK: So thank you, Ken and certainly in closing, we are off to a strong quarter as you can see for this year. I am extremely pleased with the progress on integration, the progress on the portfolio, the progress that we've made on the commercial side bringing the organizations together. And so a lot of work to do yet but from an execution standpoint and an integration standpoint and the leadership standpoint, there's total alignment within the Company and we can't wait to get to the Second Quarter. So thank you again.

ALEX KELLY: Thank you all. Goodbye.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's Conference Call. This concludes the call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc.
   IN
i2575 : Respiratory/Allergy Treatments | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | idrugty : Drugs/Medication
   NS
c184 : Joint Ventures | cbrand : Branding | c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100518e654000jp
  


 HD
 Q4  2009  Merck  & Co., Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,099 words
   PD
16 February 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to new Merck's fourth quarter 2009 earnings release call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Alex Kelly, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
ALEX KELLY, VP, IR, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thanks, Cynthia and good morning everyone and welcome to the 2009 Fourth Quarter Conference Call for the new Merck. This is our First Quarter of combined operations so there are a number of items in the GAAP results such as gains associated with the controlling interest in the cholesterol joint venture, purchase accounting adjustments, there are merger related expenses and also restructuring costs. And so as a result of having those many items we have excluded those items in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables so that you can get a better sense of the underlying performance of our business. Also, since the merger was completed on November 3rd, the GAAP Quarterly Results only include two months of combined operations, so we've also provided tables to help you understand the revenue trends as well.

So, in the press release there are five tables. Table one is the GAAP results. Table two and three reconcile our GAAP P&L to our non-GAAP P&L for the Fourth Quarter and also for the full year 2009. Table four is a supplemental non-GAAP table which provides the sales performance for the Company, the business units and the products as if the Company had been combined for the full year and also for the full Fourth Quarter of 2009. Table five is a supplemental non-GAAP table which provides sales for the major products and businesses as if the Company had been combined in 2008. That will help you make some growth comparisons in the 2009 period. During the call we will be referring to tables two and three when we discuss the P&L and table four for the revenue performance. So you may want to have those tables available.

In addition, I would like to remind you that some of the statements we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. The Company's SEC filings including Item 1A in the 2008 10-K identifies certain factors and cautionary statements that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements we make today. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement. You can find our SEC filings as well as today's Earnings Release and tables on Merck.com.

This morning I'm joined by Dick Clark, our Chairman, President, and CEO, Ken Frazier, the President of our Global Human Health business and Peter Kellogg, our Chief Financial Officer. Now I'd like to turn it over to Dick Clark.

DICK CLARK, CHAIRMAN PRESIDENT & CEO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Alex, and good morning, everyone. It was a little less than a year ago last March when we announced our plan to merge Merck and Schering-Plough. At the time I told you that the combination made great strategic and financial sense and held exceptional promise thanks to our stronger pipeline, more diverse product offerings across our broader range of businesses and an expanded global reach. In other words, our merger was and is about science and the increased relevance we now have to our customers. While this merger is about more than just cost, we stand firmly behind the financial targets we set last March.

Today, we are pleased to report solid Fourth Quarter and full year 2009 results for the combined Company. These results demonstrate the strong business focus each Company maintained last year. That is a significant accomplishment considering that the results were achieved in the midst of uncertain global economy, an ever shifting healthcare landscape, extensive merger planning and then the start of integration once the merger was completed. In terms of top line, the Company had sales of $10.1 billion for the Fourth Quarter and full year 2009 revenue of $27.4 billion. The combined Company had Fourth Quarter non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.79 and GAAP earnings per share of $2.35. Full year 2009 non-GAAP earnings were $3.25 per share which excludes certain items, and GAAP earnings of $5.65.

Our Fourth Quarter results were driven in part by the inclusion of legacy Schering-Plough sales in our result as well as just strong sales from Januvia, Singulair, and Isentress. Peter Kellogg will provide you further financial details as well as some thoughts on our outlook for the future. Since the merger closed in early November, we have moved quickly around the world to integrate our operations and begin taking advantage of the opportunities that come with the new Merck. Thus far, we are quite pleased with the pace of our progress in adopting best practices from each Company, integrating the commercial organizations, planning our network strategy, and consolidating the pipeline. In fact, since the merger's completion, our combined pipeline has been a top priority. I spent a considerable amount of time with Peter Kim and other senior Merck leaders to conduct a thorough review of the new combined pipeline so we may better prioritize our efforts by franchise, phase, cost, and geographic importance. I'm very enthusiastic about the work we've done on our powerful R&D pipeline with more than 20 late stage programs. We look forward to talking with you about that soon.

By advancing the highest potential pipeline candidates, accelerating product development and launches and maximizing the value of our medicines to full life cycle management, we're focused on driving sustained innovation and revenue growth. We see three waves of new product opportunities over the near and long term that should contribute to our growth. Wave one is happening now, with products that are already in launch mode such as Simponi, Saphris, and Januvia in Japan. Wave two focuses on near term approvals. Just in the last two weeks we had two key approvals, Bridion and Elonva, and we have four other key products under review as we speak. Wave three highlights our long stage pipeline opportunities, which we believe are the best in the industry. Our strategy also includes continuing to tap into external sources of innovation, to compliment the work that is underway in our labs. We completed 51 licensing deals in 2009 with more to come this year, all of which could further our shareholder value.

On the commercial side, we are building our capabilities and growth potential in vaccines, biologics and emerging markets, and they are sources of real focus and excitement within the new Merck. We are working hard on the strategies that will advance us to the next level in each of these growth areas. Here is a recent example. The acquisitions of [Vischa] Biologics will allow Merck to build upon the biological expertise and manufacturing capability acquired within the past three decades at Schering-Plough. The new Merck's healthy and diversified product portfolio includes offerings from A to Z in a wide range of therapeutic areas from animal health to women's health. Each of our top ten selling brands from our expanded product portfolio exceeds $1 billion in annual sales in 2009. In a few moments, Ken will talk about the performance of our key brands and how we're positioned the Company's full portfolio of healthcare offerings for near term and future growth.

Since late last year, we've built up the senior ranks of our new Company with the best executives from both Company's as well as respected leaders with new capabilities in external experience. We're proud to welcome two now vaccine leaders, former CDC Director, Dr. Julie Gerberding, as the Leader of our Vaccine Franchise and Dr. Michael Kamarck, previously President of Product Supply at Wyeth will lead Vaccines and Biologics Manufacturing. We're also pleased to welcome to Merck Executive Committee former Dean of Tuft School of Medicine Dr. Michael Rosenblatt as Merck's new Chief Medical Officer and Bridgette Heller as the Head of our Consumer Healthcare business. Moving forward we must realize the enormous value of our merger for patients, customers and shareholders. That includes gaining the benefit of fully integrating all aspects of the two formerly separate companies.

We remain absolutely committed to our previously announced target of realizing merger synergies of $3.5 billion in annual savings in 2012. As part of these plans, we unveiled today a new multi-phased global restructuring program designed to integrate and further optimize our operations and cost structure to support the more nimble, customer focused, and diversified healthcare leader Merck is becoming. We expect to complete the first phase of the program we announced today by the end of 2012. Additional phases of the merger restructuring program are expected to be announced later this year. We also expect to realize our savings through priority initiatives in areas such as procurement. Building on earlier work begun in 2005, we're making progress and putting in place a best in industry cost structure. It will take time before we fully integrate all facets of the two companies. The restructuring and integration process is complex and includes changes that require hard choices and difficult decisions, especially those that affect our colleagues throughout workforce reductions. But as we said all along, the majority of our colleagues from both legacy companies will be part of the new Merck going forward.

Looking ahead into 2010 and beyond, we remain enthusiastic about our goal of becoming the best healthcare Company in the world. We continue to be committed to our long term financial targets but the real value driver of our merger will be the science and innovation because Merck's long term strength will come from our ability to develop critical medicines and vaccines. What will set this merger apart is not just the what, but the how, the clarity of our vision, our ability to hit the ground running and the thoughtfulness which we will manage through the integration of our businesses, our operation and our people.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Ken.

KEN FRAZIER, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN HEALTH, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Dick, and good morning, everyone. As Dick mentioned, in the Fourth Quarter we drove solid performance across the global human health portfolio thanks to the strong growth of many of our key brands in markets around the world.

As a newly combined Company, we are off to a great start following the merger and we will continue to focus on driving top line performance in 2010, especially for our new and faster growing brands. Overall, global human health delivered a solid quarter with recorded sales of $9.1 billion. When you include all three months of Schering-Plough sales, our non-GAAP sales were $10.8 billion which represents 9% growth from the previous year. The growth was broad based with eight of our top ten product families growing in the Fourth Quarter. These eight franchises accounted for more than half of total sales and grew a combined 15% over the previous year. We drove this growth across a diverse base of markets. Sales outside the US increased by 13% which includes the favorable impact of foreign exchange and inside the US, we generated growth of 3% compared to the previous year. In the US, sales in the Fourth Quarter were aided by approximately $100 million of wholesaler inventory buy in, stock pile purchases of certain vaccines by the CDC, and the initial stocking for the Saphris launch. Overall, I believe our Fourth Quarter performance is a good indicator that we are maintaining strong focus and momentum while we integrate our teams.

Before I discuss the performance of individual brands, I want to update you on the progress we have made since the completion of the merger. We will be integrating our businesses and markets around the world at different times taking local considerations into account. As we do so, we will be leveraging the new commercial models that we had already implemented in nearly 30 markets. In the US, our experience with implementing Merck's new commercial model over the past two years prepared us to make critical staffing decisions quickly with three very specific goals in mind; retaining top talent, maintaining business momentum, and minimizing disruption to our customers. In fact, by late January, we've completed the design and blending process to stand up the entire US sales organization. Our US salesforce is now fully operational and completely focused on meeting customer needs. Our broader primary care offerings are ideally suited to the portfolio based selling approach of the new commercial model because the merger enables us to be more relevant to our customers across key franchises such as cardiovascular, respiratory, women's health, and other franchises.

I want to emphasize one additional point about our integration efforts. While we focus on delivering the synergies that the merger creates, we are also making conscious, explicit decisions to invest to grow our business. So, while we are reducing the size and cost of our commercial operations in more developed markets like the US, we are also making resource allocation decisions to grow our presence in major emerging markets. In fact, despite the economic volatility that we saw in these markets, our business grew by double digits in key emerging markets like China and Brazil during the Fourth Quarter. Also, as we indicated on the third quarter call we made strategic investments to maintain and grow our key in line growth drivers through additional promotional spending in the Fourth Quarter, and we'll continue to do so this year. For Januvia, Isentress, and Singulair, for example, we made strategic investments in the Fourth Quarter to grow these brands. We also invested in our new product launches this quarter. These investments contributed to strong top line performance for many of our key brands.

Now, as I turn to individual product performance, I'll refer you to table four from our supplemental financial package provided with our press release so you can follow along. Starting with Singulair, sales in the Fourth Quarter were $1.3 billion, up 12% versus the prior year. We saw double digit growth in key markets including the US where we grew by 14% versus the Fourth Quarter of 2008. Moving to Januvia and Janumet, global revenue grew to a combined $760 million in the Fourth Quarter, up 43% versus the prior year. Now, in the fourth year since its launch, we continue to drive strong performance with the Januvia, Janumet franchise in markets around the world. Januvia and Janumet remain the most prescribed products in the DPP-4 class. We continue to invest in Januvia and Janumet to maintain our leadership position in the diabetes markets and to grow this franchise. In the US, where we have recently seen the first DPP-4 competitor, we generated 24% growth versus Fourth Quarter 2008. We believe we can grow the franchise by taking share from the [sofonureas] as second line treatment for appropriate patients. In addition, we are continuing our coupon program which has been a success to date.

In the EU, we also have a labeling advantage. Januvia is the only DPP-4 approved for restricted first line use and for use as an add-on to insulin. In Japan, which is a fast growing oral diabetes market, we are in the early stages of the Januvia launch. Januvia has an extremely strong value proposition and is being reimbursed at a premium price to Actos. Despite Japan's practice of limiting new medicines to only a two week patient supply in the first year, the initial tracking shows that the Januvia launch is going very well. We are building this franchise for the long term, indication by indication and country by country. We've submitted three sNDAs for sitagliptin in the US, to allow use with insulin which would make sitagliptin the only DPP-4 approved for use with insulin, for initial use with pioglitazone and for use as add-on therapy with PPAR agonist and metformin. As you can see, there are many reasons why we expect that this franchise will continue to be a growth driver for Merck.

I'd like to turn to Remicade and our newly launch biologic Simponi. We believe Remicade and Simponi offer two great options for patients. Remicade for rapidly progressing RA patients and Simponi, the only once monthly subcutaneous anti-TNF available in the EU. In our First Quarter of combined operations, Remicade delivered another quarter of double digit sales growth and reached a new quarterly high with sales of $635 million, an increase of 29% over last year. The growth was broad based as we saw increased utilization across all six indications. We're maintaining our market share in rheumatoid arthritis despite new entrants to the market and we continue to see solid performance in growth from the gastro indications especially ulcerative colitis. For Simponi we now have launched in five countries. To date we have full reimbursement in Germany and Denmark. We plan to launch in many of the other large EU markets in the second half of 2010 as we gain reimbursement for Simponi from both public and private payers.

In infectious disease, Isentress continues to perform well and had another quarter of strong growth. Sales in the Fourth Quarter were $234 million, up 80% year-over-year and 19% sequentially. The continued growth of Isentress reflects the unique efficacy and safety profile of this product which has been widely embraced by physicians, patients and health organizations. Isentress has become the new benchmark for an HIV launch and with the new treatment naive indication, Isentress is now approved for use across each stage in the treatment continuum. Turning to Zetia and Vytorin, sales were $1.2 billion this quarter which represents 6% growth compared to the Fourth Quarter last year driven primarily by a 10% increase in the sales of Zetia. For the franchise, sales in the US declined 5%. However this was more than offset by the strong growth of the brand outside the US where the two brands grew by 23% including the favorable impact of foreign exchange. The unique value proposition for these brands remain strong and we continue to see growth opportunities in many markets around the world.

I will now move to our vaccine business starting with Gardasil. Sales reported by Merck in the Fourth Quarter were $277 million, a 3% decline when compared to the Fourth Quarter of last year. In the US, we had about $70 million of favorability due mostly to a CDC stockpile purchase. Keep this in mind as you model Gardasil sales in subsequent quarters. Ex-US sales of Gardasil as reported by Merck decreased 15%, attributable to the high penetration rate and impact of large orders in 2008, in early adopting countries such as Mexico, Canada and Australia. Globally, we continue to outperform the competition achieving an ex-US market share of 77% in dollar terms in the Fourth Quarter and a global share of 87%. Sales of ProQuad, M-M-R II and Varivax combined increased 13% in the Fourth Quarter due to a CDC stockpile purchase of $64 million. If you exclude this favorability, sales would have decreased 9% year-over-year largely due to the saturation in the Varicella second dose catch up cohort.

Now, moving to Zostavax, Fourth Quarter sales as reported by Merck were $76 million, down 53% from the previous year largely due to the release of a very significant number of backorders in the Fourth Quarter of 2008. While we anticipate that Zostavax will be available in 2010 in the US, customers may experience backorders throughout this year. International launches of Zostavax will be delayed until 2011. Now, I'd like to make a few comments about Cozaar/Hyzaar which grew 8% year-over-year. As you know, Cozaar/Hyzaar will lose marketing exclusivity in the US in early April and Cozaar/Hyzaar will lose exclusivity in most major EU Markets in the First Quarter of 2010. In the US, we anticipate that multi-source generics will be available immediately following the patent expiry, which we believe will lead to rapid erosion of sales from the current levels. And because internationally [rosen] rates have accelerated in recent years, we expect the generic uptake in the EU will also be rapid.

As we head further into 2010, I want to share with you how we are prioritizing our work in GHH, Global Human Health. First, we are focused on driving inline brand performance and we will continue to make the necessary investments to grow as we integrate our operations. Second, we are focused on the launches of our new products. In addition to Simponi which I've mentioned previously, we have recently put more promotional resources behind the Saphris launch in the US. Other opportunities we have this year in markets around the world include the launches of Saflutan, Tredaptive, Elonva and Bridion. Finally, while we focus on these opportunities, we are also creating a leaner, even more customer focused organization that builds on the best of the Merck and Schering-Plough commercial organizations.

I look forward to sharing more with you as the year progresses. And now, it's my pleasure to pass it over to my colleague, Peter Kellogg.

PETER KELLOGG, CFO, MERCK & CO., INC.: Thank you, Ken, and good morning.

As you've heard from Dick and Ken, our merger is off to a great start. We generated good sales and earnings results while making a lot of headway on the integration. Today I'd like to cover three items with you. First I will cover what is included in our results. Second, I will provide an update on our Fourth Quarter performance and third, I will comment on our outlook for 2010. So let's go to the results.

We recognized that there are a lot of moving parts this quarter. The merger closed in the middle of the quarter and therefore there are only two months of Schering-Plough included in the results. Our results also included the added complexity of purchase price accounting adjustments and restructuring charges and a joint venture that is being unwound and reported in the combined Company's results rather than in the equity income. As Alex discussed in the opening, we included new tables in our Press Release and supplemental charts to help you navigate through the accounting. To make it easier for you to follow I will speak mostly to the non-GAAP results in our remarks. Our non-GAAP results exclude restructuring costs, purchase price accounting adjustments which included a $7.5 billion gain on the step up of Merck's share in the MSP partnership to current market value, merger related costs and a $400 million gain related to the sale of Merial in the third quarter. On this basis, the new Merck reported Fourth Quarter non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.79.

There are a number of factors that are reflected in our performance this quarter. First we drove operational sales growth in many markets around the world, in part to higher promotional spending in support of our key brands and new launches. Second, we continued investing in our strong late stage pipeline. Third, we had lower equity income from partnerships and finally we benefited from a lower combined Company tax rate. In addition, as a result of the merger financing, our interest expense is higher and our interest income lower. And the number of common shares outstanding has substantially increased.

Let's get into some of the individual items beginning with revenue. Total revenue for the quarter as reported by Merck was $10.1 billion with about a 1% benefit from foreign exchange. On a supplemental combined non-GAAP basis, which assumes Schering-Plough was included for all three months of the quarter in 2009 and 2008, sales were $12.2 billion, up 7%. You can see this in table four provided today in our financial supplement. Ken just walked through the Human Health business results so let me touch for a moment on our animal and consumer health businesses. Animal Health sales totaled $759 million for the Fourth Quarter of 2009 on a supplemental combined non-GAAP basis reflecting continued growth among companion animal and poultry products. Consumer Healthcare sales were $232 million for the Fourth Quarter of 2009 on a supplemental combined non-GAAP basis reflecting solid demand for OTC Claritin and foot care products.

Now, moving on to the expense items on the P&L, first let's look at materials and production. The gross margin in the Fourth Quarter was approximately 74% versus 76% in the same quarter of the prior year. The decline is primarily attributed to the inclusion of results from Schering-Plough which has historically had a lower gross margin due to some major partnerships. Foreign exchange also had an unfavorable impact on the gross margin from Schering-Plough. Turning to Marketing and Administrative costs, M&A expenses in the Fourth Quarter were $3.2 billion on a non-GAAP basis. The majority of the increase over the Fourth Quarter of 2008 is attributable to the addition of Schering-Plough expenses and an inclusion of expenses from the Merck Schering-Plough JV in the P&L and the impact of foreign exchange. Additionally as we had anticipated, Merck had higher marketing expenses during the Fourth Quarter than in the first three quarters of 2009. We increased promotion in support of our key brands and we were also investing to insure the success of our new launches around the globe including Januvia in Japan and Tredaptive in the EU. As Ken mentioned, we have a number of launches in major markets underway today and we have more on the way. We want to insure the success of these launches by supporting them with the right level of promotion in 2010.

Now let's turn to R&D. Research and Development expenses for the new Merck in the Fourth Quarter were approximately $2 billion. On a non-GAAP basis R&D spending is up approximately $700 million this quarter. This increase is primarily driven by the addition of Schering-Plough R&D costs and the continued investment in late stage opportunities such as TRA, boceprevir, [odaymacative], Cordaptive, and our CETP inhibitor.

Now let's move to equity income. In the Fourth Quarter, Merck recorded $374 million of equity income, a decline of $346 million over the prior year. The decline is attributable to three factors which you can derive from table six in the financial supplement. First, equity income in the quarter includes only one month of results from the MSP joint venture, versus three months in the prior year. Post closing of the merger, these results are reflected in sales and expenses of the new Merck. Second, a $75 million decline in the income from the AZLP joint venture is due to the timing variability of payments from AZLP. And third, the sale of Merial to our partner Sanofi in the third quarter.

Now let's talk about other income and expense. For the fourth quarter of 2009, other expense on a non-GAAP basis is $92 million compared to other income of $27 million in the Fourth Quarter of the prior year. There are a few items driving this year-over-year change. First, most notable is the inclusion of interest expense from the Schering-Plough debt and merger related debt post-closing. Second, interest income of $11 million was $137 million lower when compared to the prior year as a result of lower interest rates and lower cash and investment balances. Third, in the same quarter of last year, Merck recognized $74 million of exchange losses which did not recur this quarter. That helped to offset a portion of the negative interest expense and interest income comparison.

Now let's turn to the tax rate. The new Merck non-GAAP tax rate is 15% for the Fourth Quarter. This reflects two dynamics -- first on the Merck side there was some one-time benefits that aren't likely to recur. Second, we had the benefit related to the inclusion of legacy Schering-Plough during the two month stub period. And this stub period had a much lower tax rate than legacy Merck. For 2010, we don't anticipate a significant change to the rate that we saw in 2009 on a full year basis excluding discrete items. Our full year 2009 rate was approximately 23% when you exclude the discrete items in the first and second quarters. Okay, so that's the fourth quarter. As you can see there are a lot of moving parts.

Here is how I think about our performance this quarter. We had strong growth in sales of our key brands. At the same time we continued investment in the future success of our newest products and our late stage pipeline. So overall, a solid start for the new Merck.

Now let's talk about where we're going beginning with 2010. As we already indicated we will provide 2010 financial guidance around the timing of our First Quarter earnings call. Today, I'd like to provide you with some perspective that I believe will be helpful. As we step back and look at new Merck, we are pleased with our many opportunities ahead. We continue to target a high single digit, non-GAAP EPS compound annual growth rate from 2009-2013 for the combined Company when compared to Merck 2009 non-GAAP EPS. Looking ahead over this next four year period, we do anticipate some years will be stronger than others. For example,, 2010 has several factors that will be challenging. During 2010, we will begin to realize synergies from the merger. However we also face the loss of patent protection for Cozaar/Hyzaar and Temodar, products that contributed $3.1 billion in revenue in the US and Europe last year and we will continue to invest in launch brands.

So as we think about 2010 there are four areas I'd like to specifically call to your attention. First let's start with the sales line. The merger has improved our longer term patent position and we are launching many new products like Saphris and Simponi, however we do face significant patent losses in 2010. The biggest is Cozaar/Hyzaar. So how should you think about that in 2010? Well in the First Quarter we expect a pull back in the Cozaar/Hyzaar trade inventory levels to below normal levels as the patent expiry date approaches. Second as Ken mentioned, we believe the erosion rate will be fast as multiple generics enter the market after the patent expires. The second 2010 patent issue, while not as large is Temodar, one of our high margin products. In the US, we were disappointed by the recent District Court judgment and have filed an appeal and a motion for a preliminary injunction to allow the court time to hear our appeal. In addition, Temodar lost patent protection in Europe in 2009 and we expect continued erosion. Despite the impressive number of new product launches in 2010, they will not be able to compensate for these two patent losses.

Now second let's talk about synergies. We are committed to merger related cost synergies of $3.5 billion annually in 2012. The first phase of our merger restructuring program that Dick told you about is expected to contribute $2.6 billion to $3 billion to this annual target. As we said additional phases will be announced by the end of 2010. We expect to see significant synergies mostly on the M&A line in 2010. As a result, we expect the M&A line to be down on a full year basis in 2010 versus what the two Companies spent individually in 2009. Please keep in mind that these synergies build over time. Very importantly, we expect the synergies in 2010 to be backend loaded with about two-thirds of the synergies coming in the second half of the year. This will cause the shape of the earnings curve during 2010 to be quite backend loaded.

Now let's talk about the third area which is R&D, where we have two dynamics underway. On the one hand, we are investing in our late stage pipeline. On the other hand we are driving efficiencies through the combined R&D infrastructure. Coming into the merger, Schering-Plough and Merck each had strong and growing R&D pipelines and on a standalone basis each Company expected to significantly increase its level of R&D investment in 2010 due to the richness of its late stage pipeline and the many ongoing large outcomes trials. Let me give you a sense of scale. In cardiovascular disease alone, we had more than 80,000 patients currently in our clinical trials and that number is expected to grow to more than 100,000 patients before those trials end. So therefore, based on this level of Phase III project activity, we expect that the level of R&D investments in 2010 will be similar to slightly higher than the level seen in 2009 for both companies on a combined basis. We believe that making these 2010 investments are the best way to drive shareholder value.

Lastly let's talk about the timing of certain items this year. There are a number of items that will affect the early part of the year and specifically Q1. First, Q1 is typically the softest quarter of the year due to the seasonality of our respiratory and vaccine franchises. We saw this in the First Quarter of 2009. Second, we had the expected pull-down in Cozaar/Hyzaar trade inventories in Q1 that I mentioned earlier. Third, there was approximately $135 million of favorable vaccine revenue in Q4 primarily due to a number of CDC stockpile purchases and these will not recur in the First Quarter. Fourth, we had a low tax rate in the Fourth Quarter that we do not expect to recur this year. Also aside from seasonality, these items relate to Q1 but obviously they will have a similar impact on the full year results.

So let me summarize. As I mentioned earlier, we expect that non-GAAP earnings in the second half of 2010 will be considerably higher than non-GAAP earnings in the first half of 2010 due to the phasing in of synergies. In fact we believe our non-GAAP EPS run rate in the second half of this year will provide strong evidence that we are heading towards our long term EPS goal. We are on track to have a good first full year as a combined Company. We will continue our business momentum for key brands and launch products. We remain very excited about the future of the new Merck and we continue to target high single digit non-GAAP EPS compound annual growth rate from 2009 to 2013 for the combined Company. As Dick emphasized, this is a Company that will build its long term strength through science and innovation. We look forward to speaking with you about the products, the pipeline and the strategy of the new Merck during our Second Quarter R&D and business update meeting.

Thank you, now I'll turn the call back to Alex. Alex?

ALEX KELLY: Thanks, Peter. Now we're ready to open up the call to answer your questions. In order to get through as many callers as possible we ask you extend the courtesy to the other callers by only asking one or two questions. We're not planning to take any follow-up questions but if you have other questions, please join in the queue again. Cynthia?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Chris Schott with JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks, maybe first question on the R&D budget, reaching this $8 billion, $8.5 billion level on a pro forma basis in '09. Obviously it's a much larger number than you've had in the past and can you elaborate what you're doing to manage an organization this large and avoid maybe some of the pitfalls some of your competitors have run into as they've scaled their R&D organizations to this size.

And maybe a follow-up on the R&D side. On an absolute basis how do we think about the R&D budget as going beyond 2010? Is this a budget that remains on that flat level or above current levels or will some of these efficiencies in program cuts you've targeted with the restructuring push that down over time, especially as we think about some of these big outcome studies starting to wrap up looking out two or three years? Thanks.

DICK CLARK: Yes, thanks, Chris. This is Dick Clark. I think to answer the first part of your question what we've been focusing on from a research standpoint is our prioritization really beginning with the portfolio. So as we said we're spending a great deal of time understanding the portfolio and making decisions by phase, by value, by job and by unmet medical need of what we need to do to put a portfolio together for the new Company. We're also spending a great deal of time now focusing in on talent and scientific capabilities and the people we need to be able to run this research organization. And obviously the last thing we spend time on then is the site, so once you have the portfolio, projects and people beside you, then you can look at price.

I think one of the advantages we have in how we run the entire Company is not only in research but in Global Human Health as well is that we really have franchise heads so having the General Manager for franchise in the commercial side and one on the research side allows us to think about franchises both in the commercial and research standpoint. It allows better focus and allows us to make portfolio decisions even though the research capability has expanded as we move forward.

PETER KELLOGG: So if I can take some of the financial perspective, you're right. As I highlighted 2010 is in many ways a very exciting year for us because we have a lot going on the late stage pipeline and some very exciting trials that offer a lot of potential for us in the near term future and so clearly, while we're going to the portfolio prioritization, we made sure these really high priority pipelines get full resource and attention.

Secondly we haven't given R&D launch and guidance yet and obviously that's something we'll do when we get out towards the First Quarter earnings call but I do want to remind everybody that our long term perspective on the Company is that we will have high single digit, non-GAAP EPS growth over the time period that we talked about and that we are going to see a price pre-tax margin improvement as we go from today to that time frame. We highlighted on the time of the merger we're shooting for something that begins to approach the 40% level and it's obviously based on the current expectations and what we know at this point. But that implies there will be productivity in all the lines as it goes into the P&L and that will be something you'll be seeing particularly as all of the different integration steps are going on in our R&D organizations come to bear.

But I do think as Dick said in the beginning, this is about science and innovation and global expansion and having really world class organizations in every function and so we are going to be making sure we make the right investments in all of the areas and yet still drive great productivity throughout the Company.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Dick and Peter, maybe you could help to clarify the $3.5 billion in integration synergies. Is that a gross number or a net number and if it is a gross number could you help us to -- could you quantify the level of reinvestment spending and a question to Dick. There's not a whole lot of focus on the consumer business -- you just announced a new executive hire to run that business, it's only about 3% of total sales, obviously subscale compared to your competitors. What is your strategy with this business and would you consider spinning it off similar to what Bristol did with Mead Johnson? Thanks.

PETER KELLOGG: Hi, Jami, it's Peter so let me start with the synergy piece. So let me just begin by saying nothing in our guidance has changed. We are definitely focused and targeted and confident about achieving the $3.5 billion of synergies. This announcement today is just the first phase and obviously it has a dramatic significant portion of the benefit against that $3.5 billion and there will be other phases that we'll be announcing as other plans are finalized and concluded on and those will also contribute to the $3.5 billion goal that we have.

Obviously as we've highlighted, with an improving operating margin and particularly as you go out to that time frame if we have an operating margin that goes from where it is today pre-tax to approaching 40%, we're going to be putting a lot of this synergy to the bottom line and so while we don't necessarily talk about gross or net, you know us, we will make sure we get the benefit at the bottom line.

Dick, do you want to add anything to synergy perspective?

DICK CLARK: Jami, as you know me, gross isn't in my vocabulary so it's net that we're looking for to the $3.5 billion.

Concerning your question with consumer health, we're excited about having a leader now of consumer health. We think it is a very good business. We think it's a global business. We think Schering-Plough has done an outstanding job of building the business within the US and starting to look at it globally. We think it's a very important part of our emerging market going forward. Examples of China and Brazil and other countries. And obviously we need to grow the business and we're looking forward to putting the strategy together to do that.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Operator, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you. On 2010, it seems like you paint a cautious picture on the outlook because of the few different factors and I understand complete guidance will come a little bit later -- but directionally can you just tell us whether 2010 will be a positive growth year in terms of earnings relative to 2009.

And second question is can you give us an update of where we are in Remicade and when we might hear something with Johnson&Johnson? Do you expect this will have to go to arbitration and get resolved?

PETER KELLOGG: So Tim, it's Peter. We haven't really, we will have to hold off until 2010, sorry, until around the First Quarter call to talk about the P&L and so fourth. We did obviously around the time of the earnings indicate that we thought 2010 would be an accretive year so it's a positive year. But we really want to hold off until we've got the complete portfolio work done, all decisions finalized and we have the profit plan put together -- which will be happening over the course of the next month. And the way we always like to do it is make sure we have the complete profit plan put to bed and we come out with our guidance based on that.

Bruce Kuhlik is here with us so I'd like to ask Bruce to comment on Remicade.

BRUCE KUHLIK, EVP & GENERAL COUNSEL, MERCK & CO., INC.: Just on the arbitration, the panel has been selected, we've met with the panel, a hearing is scheduled for September of this year and we're working towards that.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Marc Goodman with UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, hi. I was wondering if you could give us a flavor for the level of resources you're putting behind the Vytorin Zetia franchise relative to the way the JV had -- the spending levels. And could you just talk about the resumption of supply for some of the other vaccines you didn't mention? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: Okay, so I will take those questions. On Vytorin and Zetia, we are looking across our Commercial Operations for opportunities to do two things. At a high level we're obviously achieving synergies when you put together the salesforces that supported Merck for Vytorin and Zetia, Schering-Plough for Vytorin and Zetia and the JV for Vytorin and Zetia so there are synergies across those groups. At the same time we continue to invest behind the products from a promotional standpoint to insure that they're competitively resourced and as I said earlier we feel very optimistic about the stabilization of trends as well as the continued growth outside the US.

On the vaccine issues around supply, we mentioned earlier on that we are continuing to make Zostavax available in 2010 but customers may experience some back orders throughout the year as our bulk Varicella product continues to be prioritized for use in manufacturing Varivax, so that will delay our launches outside the US. Recombivax pediatric became fully available in the US as of early December. [P back tid] became fully available in the US market as of January.

Beyond that we continue to make significant investments in our vaccine manufacturing capabilities. We've recently invested over $1 billion in new manufacturing resources. We expect our North Carolina facility to begin operations by the middle of this year, so we have some issues with respect to our Varicella vaccines which we continue to work diligently on to minimize any disruption.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks very much. I have two questions. First, could you please highlight the top three to four pipeline events to watch in 2010. And then second, Dick, I was hoping you could talk about CEO succession process and timing? Thank you.

DICK CLARK: Well, from a CEO succession planning process, David, as I have said many times, it's probably the most important priority I've given since I've become CEO in 2005. So working with the Board, I feel very confident we have an excellent process in place. Putting the management team together that we have has really been a focus of mine. And I think with the leadership team that I have today and that we've recently announced there's excellent leaders within the Company and obviously, the process will continue to evolve throughout this year but I think we're in pretty good shape from a planning process as well as internal candidates.

ALEX KELLY: Ken, do you want to answer the pipeline question?

KEN FRAZIER: I think here is what I would say. I think the things to keep in mind this year would be obviously the continued progress of Boseprivir, the IMPROVE-IT interim, disclosures that will happen, as well as our TRA enrollment. I think we're very pleased on the last issues that our secondary prevention study is fully enrolled and we continue to work on the Tracer study where we have more than 9,000 patients enrolled in the study with a target enrollment of 12,500. I think you expect to see four filings this year so it's going to be a very strong year for advancing our late stage pipeline.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Boris with Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITI: Thanks for taking the questions. Just a two part question. First, on cash flows Peter can you just identify or provide us with an idea of what cash flows were in the quarter. And Dick if you can just give us some color on your focus on shareholder value and how you'll be allocating cash going forward towards Business Development and share repo dividends.

And then a broader macro question for you, Dick, obviously Billy Tosen has indicated he's stepping down in pharma. Can you just provide some color on healthcare reform -- where you see healthcare reform going, and what's currently on the table negotiated by Billy Tosen, how you see that potentially being impacted by his successor?

DICK CLARK: Well taking your second part, talking about pharma, I think the process that we utilized as an association with Billy as our leader was to involve the entire pharma board and so the position that we've taken early on to be proactive with the -- President Obama's administration in Congress is still the strategy we have and I think it's important that we continue to be proactive. We continue to come up with the right solutions are to make sure that everyone in our country is insured. And so that strategy that we put together with Billy's help will continue in the future.

Billy is staying on as a consultant with us as well and I think that's important and the CEO's of the association are really committed to making healthcare reform work and working with Congress in the Obama administration so even though we'll have some change in leadership at the association level, the focus will remain the same.

PETER KELLOGG: So John, this is Peter. If I can just take the cash flow question and first let me just say I applaud the focus on cash flow. I'm a cash flow believer totally as well.

However I will have to ask that if you can wait until the 10-K -- it will be out in a couple weeks and the Balance Sheet and cash flow statements because until they are final in the 10-K, I want to be careful not to -- since we haven't put them in the Earnings Release, we don't normally do that -- I want to hold them until we publish the 10-K. But we focus on that tremendously and I just want to go through the normal steps and process.

ALEX KELLY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Eric Lo with Banc of America.

ERIC LO, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi guys, maybe a couple housekeeping questions. What were your Saphris sales in the quarter and how much of your Gardasil sales came from the male indication. And also can you provide a status update on [Tocatchapent] and the discussions with the FDA on that front?

KEN FRAZIER: So on the Saphris issue, the sales were $40 million, almost all of that is stocking. I will take a second on Saphris to say that we continue to be extremely strong in our belief that Saphris has the potential to really make a difference to patients who have schizophrenia and bipolar disease without some of the metabolic issues. And that I think we view this from our standpoint as being a launch that started on January 25th when we were able to provide full promotional support to our representatives who before that were essentially detailing with just the product inserts. So I think we view this launch as being a new one.

On the Gardasil issue, we look forward to growth opportunities for males but right now, I think the males have not been a very significant contributor to our Gardasil sales, although we continue to look forward to that as well as to the adult women indication.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, now Operator, we're waiting for our last two questions please,

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thanks very much. So a couple of quick questions. Just wanted to verify the comment on the second TRA study. Ken, you had mentioned that 9,000 patients were enrolled and there's a target enrollment of 12,500 patients. To my recollection, that may be approximately an increase of about 2,500 patients and I'm just wondering what the reasons are for that increase? I know that you may not know that off the top of your head but just wanted to verify that that actually is an increase.

And then separately, can you estimate the currency contribution to costs? Again at least historical Merck costs in the quarter just wondering if we can at least have a historical look at that. And if you have an estimate of what the contribution to the cost lines were for Schering-Plough that would be very helpful. Thanks a lot.

KEN FRAZIER: So I'll take the first comment about the Tracer study. You are correct that it was an increase of about 2,500 patients and while I'm not a scientist I understand that when you have an event driven study, the people who are running the study try to model what it takes to make sure that you have a robust sample to get the event rate that you're looking for and that's why it was increased.

ALEX KELLY: And if I can just note on that -- this is Alex -- that was updated previously. That's not a new disclosure about the 2,500 patient increase. That's been out for a few months.

PETER KELLOGG: So if I can take the foreign exchange question, on the P&L, as I mentioned in my talk, we felt that the revenue benefited from -- about 1% from foreign exchange. Now, Merck's year-over-year benefit from foreign exchange is not as pronounced as you might see in some other pharma companies and recall we have the benefit of a hedging program in the Fourth Quarter of last year when the currencies were really moving rapidly. We had nice gains from the hedging position that we had. So that moderates the year-over-year benefit.

But net-net, what I can say is that the EPS benefit on the bottom line is moderately better than what you see in the top line but not really dramatic so really in some ways probably net-net foreign exchange didn't benefit our P&L in the Fourth Quarter versus last year as much. And part of that is because we had a nice hedging program that made the prior year stand up a little better.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, Operator, ready for our last question, please.

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from the line of Robert Hazlett with BMO Capital Markets.

ROBERT HAZLETT, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you for taking the question. Maybe for Ken, was there any wholesale or stocking benefiting the US results and could you comment on the specific marketing increases that you made in the Fourth Quarter. And then regarding Isentress, which is a growth driver for the Company, clearly, there's some competition and actually news out regarding Gilead this morning. Could you comment on the relative positioning of Isentress compared to Gilead's therapy upcoming in the HIV market? Thanks.

KEN FRAZIER: So working backwards, I have not seen the latest news on Gilead, but we continue to be confident in the profile of Isentress and its growth prospects, we continue to work very hard on ensuring that we have a once daily version of that drug. We continue to look forward to fixed dose combinations which we believe will put it in a position where it will continue to be successful. And all I know that I can say about the Gilead pill is obviously we're talking about an experimental pill with an anticipated launch that's many years away. We said earlier in the US that we did see some wholesaler stocking this quarter. I think we view that as being reasonable in terms of comparing the Fourth Quarter '09 to the Fourth Quarter '08 although it was up from the third quarter of '09.

And your general question about Marketing expenditures, I can just summarize by saying we continue to put money behind our growth drivers. We're very pleased, for example, with the recent trends around Januvia and we mentioned before that we were really going to focus on Januvia before we had put the focus on messaging the importance of maximizing DPP-4 inhibition to try to blunt the introduction of in-class competition, we've expanded our approach. We've now started to focus on the ability to work competitively against sofonureas and we have been encouraged by the focus and the resources we've put behind Januvia in terms of increased volumes in December and January. So we continue to view Januvia and Janumet as well as some of our other in line products as key growth drivers in the US market and beyond.

ALEX KELLY: Okay, thank you, Ken and if I can just amplify on something Ken mentioned earlier that we have four filings under review now with regulatory authorities around the world.

So, with that, I think that's the end of our Q&A, and we thank you all for listening to the call. Have a good day. Goodbye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's new Merck's Fourth Quarter 2009 Earnings Release Conference Call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
schplo : Merck & Co. Inc. | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c184 : Joint Ventures | c151 : Earnings | c335 : Franchises | cbrand : Branding | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | c11 : Plans/Strategy | csched : Announcements of News Conferences/Calls | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | c33 : Contracts/Orders | c41 : Management Issues | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100302e62g000b7
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) not hd=event and co=mrk and hd=merck
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
28
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 9:31 AM GMT
  
