 
•	 Q3 2016 Bank of America Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Bank of America Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Bank of America Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Bank of America Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Bank of America Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Bank of America Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Bank of America Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Bank of America Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Bank of America Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 Bank of America Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Bank of America Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Bank of America Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Bank of America Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Bank of America Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2009 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2009 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2009 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2008 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2008 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2008 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2008 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2007  Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2007  Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q2 2007  Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q1 2007  Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q4 2006 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2006 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2006 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2006 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2005 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2005 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2005 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2005 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2004 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2004 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2004 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2003 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2003 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2003 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	  Q1 2003 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q4 2002 Bank of America Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q3 2002 Bank of America Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q2 2002 Bank of America Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q2 2002 Bank of America Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q1 2002 Bank of America Earnings Release - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q1 2002 Bank of America Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q4 2001 Bank of America Earnings Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q3  2016  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
18,307 words
   PD
17 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Please note this call is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Lee McEntire. Please go ahead.

LEE MCENTIRE, SVP, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Thanks to everyone on the phone as well as the webcast for joining us this morning for the third-quarter 2016 results. Hopefully everybody has had a chance to review the earnings release documents that are available on the website.

Before I turn the call over to Brian and Paul let me remind you we may make some forward-looking statements. For further information on these please refer to either our earnings release documents, our website or our SEC filings.

One thing before Brian and Paul get into the results I just want to remind you we filed an 8-K on October 4 giving notification the Company changed our method of accounting for the amortization of premium and accretion of discounts related to certain debt securities known by the investment community as FAS-91. Our change to the contractual method which is used by the majority of our peers will provide better comparability of our results. As a result of that change we restated our historical results and provided the historically restated information in the 8-K and our earnings materials today naturally reflect those restatements.

With that let me turn it over to Brian Moynihan, our Chairman and CEO, for some opening comments before Paul Donofrio, our CFO, goes through the details. Brian?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CHAIRMAN & CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Lee. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to review our third-quarter results.

Our results this quarter continue our progress on our long-term strategy. We continue to drive responsible growth and deliver more of the Company's capabilities to our customers and clients. This progress is becoming clearer with each successive quarter and you can see the highlights of that on slide 2.

We reported earnings of $5 billion or $0.41 per diluted share, an EPS improvement of 8% from the year-ago quarter. We improved operating leverage across the businesses, utilizing technology to lower cost and improve our processes.

Our pretax earnings improved 17% compared to third-quarter 2015. This pretax earnings comparison is important as it eliminates the unusual movements in the tax line like this quarter's tax charge and the UK corporate tax rate change.

Like last quarter I thought I would address a few topics we are hearing from all of you. To do that let's look at slide 3 and 4 of the earnings material.

A first question is, are we making progress driving our responsible growth strategy? Yes, we continue to show progress throughout all the businesses. Our revenue growth has more clarity as we move past the periods of significant impacts from implementing regulations, running off non-core portfolios and divesting non-core businesses.

Revenue grew 3% over the third quarter of last year. Behind that improvement is our continued investment in this great franchise, in our sales teams, in our technology across the board. These sales teams and the buildup we have been doing there helps us to increase our capacity to serve our customers and clients.

An example of that is in our Consumer business. There our focus is on being the core bank to all our households. This has resulted in fewer checking accounts than we had years ago, but the average balance of the checking accounts we have has doubled and they are now roughly $6,500 per account.

You can also see this in the growth of our Merrill Edge brokerage balances which now total over $138 billion, adding investment relationships to the mass-market customer base. In general, consumers are deepening their relationships with us as they use our straightforward investing tools to get them started on the path to investing.

For our affluent and wealthy customers our customer progress also continues. Our Global Wealth & Investment Management teams, US Trust and Merrill Lynch, not only managed $2 trillion-plus in investment balances but also manage nearly $150 billion in loans at more than $250 billion in deposits. And we continue to see net flows of core assets in that business.

On the commercial side clients continue to respond to our universal banking model for a simplified stop for financing investing advisory services. We will continue to operate within our established risk framework in defined customer groups and we aren't reaching for growth. This will drive more sustainable results over a longer period of time for our shareholders.

With our global peers restructuring, including in the Markets business, I think this quarter is another great example of our Global Markets business' importance to our investing and issuing clients. We saw better client activity driving the best third-quarter results we have had in five years in Investment Banking and in sales and trading. We are doing that with a smaller balance sheet, fewer people and lower value at risk or VAR.

So growth in deepening all consistent with our responsible growth strategy continues across all the customer bases. Paul will talk to you more about the statistics and these successes.

Another question that we get asked is can credit remain this strong? Well, many of you asked that last quarter and the quarter before that and the quarter before that and this quarter it still got better again with our charge-off ratio declined to 40 basis points this quarter at an historic low. This is driven by changes we made right after the crisis, think in 2008 and 2009, and the long-term benefits of that effort continue to come through.

And, by the way, sticking to our responsible growth strategy even as times have been relatively better. US consumer health is generally good. Over the past few quarters, exposures in our oil and gas that were causing industry concerns for commercial losses have improved and charge-offs have receded. Other commercial credit remains very strong, and Paul will touch on these topics later.

Another question we get asked is what can we do to drive earnings even if we stay in this low rate, low growth environment? We aren't waiting for interest rates to rise here at Bank of America. We are driving our earnings growth now.

We work on the things that we can control: expenses, loan and deposit growth and fee growth. Long-term rates are down compared to last year yet earnings have grown. Despite that net interest income is up 3% from third-quarter 2015 while net interest yield has been stable because we grew core loans and deposits.

Paul will take you through the loan growth details later but I want to pause a moment and talk about our deposit growth. Deposits are a core part of what drives our franchise earnings. We have $1.2 trillion in deposits.

That's proof that customers entrust us to safeguard their money. We are heavily weighted in the mix of those deposits towards consumers whether the general consumers or wealthy consumers. This, in turn, provides a very stable base of funding for the Company and allows us to be less reliant on the markets for funding.

Nearly $450 billion or 36% of our deposits are noninterest-bearing, a very strong mix. Deposits on average grew $68 billion year over year or 6%. The teams have done tremendous work here and this quarter wasn't an anomaly.

This is the fourth consecutive quarter where we have grown deposits more than $50 billion over the previous year. Our commercial teams remain focused on growing deposits also. They are growing deposits that are LCR friendly and doing great work with our industry-leading cash management capabilities.

As a result year-over-year Global Banking grew deposits 3% to $300 billion. Our Consumer and Wealth Management teams combined have $860 billion in deposits. They grew this large base by 8% in the past 12 months.

For the first time Consumer topped $600 billion in deposits. These deposits are growing because our capabilities in the business are the best in the industry and our customers and clients see that. Whether t is our 21 million plus mobile banking customers, or 34 million plus online customers or the more than 5 million customers that come into our financial centers every week, these customers show that they appreciate the capabilities and integration of our networks.

So when we look at what else can we do to control and drive earnings in a low growth environment we get asked a lot about expenses and can those expenses keep being driven down and go lower. Well, the answer is yes. Last quarter we gave you a 2018 expense target and we continue to make progress towards that.

Our expenses declined 3% from the third quarter of 2015 to 2016. Our efficiency ratio improved to 62% this quarter. That is a 400 basis point improvement from last year's third quarter.

We continue to deliver on expense reductions while continuing to invest in technology and sales teams and other matters that are important for the future of this franchise. After you take into account the additional large bank FDIC assessment that started this quarter, expense is also down on a linked-quarter basis even as we continue to invest and absorb all the severance, regulatory, resolution planning and other repositioning cost to continue to reduce our operating costs.

We have been innovating in technology and we will continue to do so to improve processes and eliminate the need for paper and humans handling that paper. Our Simplify and Improve initiatives continue to help drive those costs are down.

And that leads to the question we also get asked, can we deliver and sustain returns above our cost of capital? As Lee talked about earlier we restate our results to change under FAS-91 and reduce the variability and make us more comparable to peers. As you can see, that makes it a little easier to see the longer-term return on tangible common equity trends.

This quarter we reported 10.3%. It has now stabilized above the cost of capital, even given our larger and larger capital base.

We still have work to do here to drive it to our ultimate goals. But this quarter is another strong step in that direction.

Importantly, on slide 4 you can see that each business has improved its leverage. They grew their earnings, had strong efficiency and returned far above the cost of capital. And all that continues to bode well as we look ahead.

So as we look forward we are driving responsible growth and maintaining discipline on cost. And this has allowed us to deliver more capital back to you. And we will keep on doing that.

Now let me turn it over to Paul to cover the numbers. Paul?

PAUL DONOFRIO, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian. Good morning everybody. Since Brian covered the income statement highlights I will start with the balance sheet on page 5.

Strong deposit growth drove a small increase in the size of our balance sheet versus Q2. Deposits rose $17 billion or 6% on an annualized basis. During the quarter long-term debt fell by $5 billion.

We put cash to work growing securities in our investment portfolio and more modestly through loan growth. Global liquidity sources rose driven by deposit growth and we remain well compliant with LCR requirements. Tangible common equity of $174 billion improved by $2.8 billion from Q2, driven by earnings.

In the process we returned $2.2 billion to common shareholders through a combination of dividends and $1.4 billion in share repurchases. On a per share basis tangible book value increased to $17.14 of $1.60 or 11% from Q3 2015. I would note that this increase was driven by both retained earnings as well as share repurchases below tangible book value as we reduced shares 3% from Q3 2015.

Turning to regulatory metrics, as a reminder we report capital under the advanced approaches. RCET1 transition ratio under Basel III ended the quarter at 11%.

On a fully phased-in basis, CET1 capital improved $4 billion to $166 billion. Under the advanced approaches compared to Q2 2016 our CET1 ratio increased 40 basis points to 10.9% and is well above our 10% 2019 requirement.

RWA declined roughly $20 billion, driven by reductions in global markets exposures and improvements in credit quality driven by runoff of non-core legacy exposure. We also improved our capital metrics under the standardized approach. Here our CET1 ratio improved to 11.8%. Supplemental leverage ratios for both parent and bank continue to exceed US regulatory minimums that take effect in 2018.

Turning to slide 6, on an average basis total loans were up $23 billion or 3% from Q3 2015 and while up from Q2 2016 growth was at a slower pace. Consistent with past periods, we break out loans in our business segments and in All Other. Year over year, loans in All Other were down $30 billion, driven by continued runoff of first and second lien mortgages while loans in our business segments were up $53 billion, or 7%.

In Consumer Banking we continue to see growth in residential real estate and vehicle lending, offset somewhat by home-equity paydowns which continued to outpace originations. In Wealth Management we saw growth in residential real estate and structured lending. Global Banking loans were up $26 billion or 8% year over year. On the bottom right of the chart, note the growth of $68 billion average deposits that Brian mentioned.

Turning to asset quality on slide 7, we believe a number of factors including our strategy of responsible growth, enhanced underwriting standards since 2008 and a healthier economy have transformed the risk profile of Bank of America as we look forward to future economic cycles. Total net charge-offs of $888 million improved $97 million from Q2. Consumer losses declined across a number of products and commercial losses also declined, driven by lower energy losses.

Driven by these improvements, provision expense of $850 million declined $126 million from Q2. We had a small overall net reserve release in the quarter as consumer real estate releases more than offset builds in other products.

On slide 8 we provide credit quality data on our Consumer portfolio. We remain focused on originating consumer loans with borrowers with high FICO scores and our asset quality remains strong.

Net charge-offs declined $71 million from Q2. This improvement was broad-based across consumer real estate as well as credit card.

Note that credit cards accounts for more than two-thirds of losses in our Consumer portfolio and within our US credit card book the loss rate improved to 2.45%. NPLs improved and reserve coverage remains strong.

Moving to Commercial credit on slide 9, net charge-offs of $110 million improved $26 million from Q2. With respect to energy, exposures are down, losses improved, oil prices have stabilized and we have $1 billion of reserves. More specifically, energy charge-offs of $45 billion decreased $34 billion from Q2.

While reservable criticized declined from Q2 we did experience an increase in NPLs this quarter which was concentrated with two clients, one in metals and mining and one in energy. Overall, our commercial portfolio continues to perform well. As I shared with you last quarter, the metrics in the commercial portfolio speak for themselves in terms of quality and performance.

The reservable criticized exposure declined and as a percentage of loans remains low. The Commercial net charge-off ratio is 10 basis points. Excluding small business it is 5 basis points and has been around 15 basis points or better for 15 consecutive quarters and the NPL ratio remains low at 45 basis points.

Turning to slide 10, net interest income on a GAAP non-FTE basis was $10.2 billion, $10.4 billion on an FTE basis. As Lee mentioned earlier, we changed our accounting method for the amortization of premium or discount paid on certain of our debt securities from the prepayment method to the contractual method. The contractual method is used by our peers and should make it easier for investors to make comparisons.

Compared to Q3 2015, NII is up $300 million or 3% as loan growth, higher short-end rates and higher security balances funded by deposits more than offset the negative impact of generally lower long-end rates over the past several quarters.

Okay, with respect to asset sensitivity as of 9/30, an instantaneous 100 basis point parallel increase in rates is estimated to increase NII by $5.3 billion over the subsequent 12 months. This is lower than the sensitivity we reported at June 30.

The reduction was mostly on the long end, driven by the change to the contractual method and slower prepaid speeds based upon recent trends and customer behavior. Note that this sensitivity on the short end at $3.3 billion has not changed significantly.

Turning to slide 11, noninterest expense was $13.5 billion. That's $0.5 billion lower or 3% lower than Q3 2015, driven by cost reductions across the Company. This is the initial quarter of the increased FDIC assessment to shore up the deposit insurance fund.

The increase in expense for us is roughly $100 million per quarter. Compared to Q2 2016, expenses were stable as good core expense control was offset by the higher FDIC cost and modestly higher incentives.

Q3 litigation expense was $250 million, which is fairly consistent with both Q3 2015 as well as Q2 2016. Most expense categories were lower year over year. This trend was led by personnel expense, which includes the Q4 2015 expiration of the fully amortized advisor awards in Wealth Management. The rest of the improvement was driven by reduced cost of mortgage servicing coupled with same efforts and other initiatives.

Our employee base is down 3% from Q3 2015. While the overall headcount is down it is important to note that year over year we added over 1,000 primary sales associates across Consumer, Wealth Management and Global Banking.

Turning to the business segments and starting with Consumer Banking on slide 12. Consumer earned $1.8 billion, continuing its trend of solid results and reporting a robust 21% return on allocated capital. I would note that pretax pre-provision earnings rose $377 million or 10%.

Expense and NII improvement were both notable and together enough to more than offset higher provision expense and prior-year divestiture gains. Revenue was relatively flat on a reported basis compared to Q3 2015 as 4% in NII was offset, as I said, by the absence of approximately $200 million of divestiture gains in 2015. As a reminder, these gains in Q3 2015 result from divestitures of an ancillary appraisal business, a card portfolio and some financial centers.

Excluding those prior-period gains, revenue improved year over year and growth in pretax pre-provision earnings was even more substantial. Falling 400 basis points, Consumer Banking's efficiency ratio of 55% improved meaningfully year over year.

Okay, turning to slide 13 and key trends, first on the upper left the stats are a reminder of our strong competitive position. Looking a little closer at revenue drivers compared to Q3 2015, net interest income continued to improve as we drove deposits higher. Average deposits continued their strong growth, up $50 billion or 9% year over year, outpacing the industry.

With respect to noninterest income service charges were up modestly while card income was down. Spending levels and issuance were strong but revenue growth was muted by customer rewards. We are attracting relatively higher quality card customers that, on the one hand, have higher spending habits but, on the other hand, receive more rewards.

This has two important benefits to note. First, rewards deepen relationships, helping to grow deposits and make them more sticky, for example. Second, in our experience these customers have lower loss rates and a reduced need to interact with call centers, thereby allowing us to lower costs.

Turning to expenses, in the upper right they climbed 7% from Q3 2015 despite, excuse me, turning to expenses they declined 7% from Q3 2015 despite the higher FDIC assessment charges in the quarter. Expense reductions are the result of a number of initiatives. For example, mobile banking penetration helps to optimize our delivery network while improving customer satisfaction, more chip cards help us lower fraud costs and digitalization of processes and statements helps us eliminate paper and related handling costs.

One can observe the impacts of these types of initiatives on the cost of deposits which continued its march lower, dropping below 1.6% this quarter. Focusing on client balances on the left, in addition to deposit growth Merrill Edge brokers assets at $138 billion are up 18% versus Q3 2015 on strong account flows and market valuations. We also increased the number of Merrill Edge accounts by 11% from Q3 2015.

We now have nearly 1.7 million households that leverage our financial solution advisors and self-directed investing platform.

Moving across the bottom right of the page, note that loans are up 7% from Q3 2015 on strong mortgage and vehicle lending growth. As reviewed in previous quarters we continue to focus on originating high FICO score loans which have generally produced low loss rates and strong risk-adjusted returns. Loan growth included consumer real estate production of $20.4 billion, up 21% from Q3 2015 and in line with Q2 2016 as customers continue to take advantage of historically low interest rates.

We retained about three-quarters of first mortgage production on the balance sheet this quarter. Average vehicle loans were up 17% from Q3 2015 with average booked FICO scores remaining well above 750 and net losses remaining below 30 basis points.

With respect to US card -- excuse me, US consumer card, average balances grew 7% from Q2 on an annualized basis, aided by seasonal back-to-school lending. We issued more than 1.3 million cards in the quarter and spending on credit cards, adjusted for divestitures, was up 8% compared to Q3 2015.

Turning to slide 14 and digital banking trends, as I mentioned earlier, we continue to see strong momentum in digital banking adoption with use across service, appointments and sales. Mobile banking is transforming how our customers bank and reshaping our Consumer segment. Importantly, as adoption rises, particularly around transaction processing and self-service, we see improved efficiency and customer satisfaction.

We continue to improve capabilities with the latest example being the launch of our Spanish mobile app which attracted over 800,000 active users in the first 10 weeks. We added roughly 1.1 million new mobile users in the quarter. The pace of user growth has increased despite an already impressive penetration rate of our checking account holders.

With more than 21.3 million active users, deposits from mobile devices now represents 18% of deposit transactions and 26 million checks were deposited via mobile devices this quarter. That is an average of 280,000 deposits per day, an increase of 27% year over year and the equivalent to volume of 830 financial centers.

Digital sales now represents 18% of total sales. And we now have more than 3,500 digital ambassadors in our financial centers driving further adoption.

Also, as you know, we are a leader in person-to-person and person-to-business money movement through digital transfers and bill payment capabilities. Consumers moved $243 billion in Q3, up 6% from last year.

And while all this is transformative, I would just remind you that we still have a little less than 1 million people per day walking into our centers across the US. This in-person interaction is important in terms of deepening and retaining personal relationships, providing more complex financial help and creating opportunities for further engagement.

Turning to slide 15, Global Wealth & Investment Management produced earnings of $697 million, up 10% from Q3 2015. Now it's no secret that this segment operates in an industry undergoing meaningful change as firms and clients adapt to the new fiduciary rules and other market dynamics. The good news is we start from a position of strength with a $2.5 trillion in client balances.

We have market-leading brands and a wide range of investment service offers from self-service to fully managed. Plus we have the resources to continue to invest in market-leading capabilities that address the changing needs of our clients. Year over year, revenue was down modestly but expenses were down even more, improving pretax margin to 25%, up meaningfully from Q3 2015.

Overall revenue declined 2% from Q3 2015 as NII growth was more than offset by lower transactional revenues. NII benefited from solid loan and deposit growth, noninterest income declined from Q3 2015 driven by lower transactional revenue that continues to be impacted by market factors as well as migration of activities from brokerage to managed relationships.

Noninterest expense declined nearly $313 million or 6% from Q3 2015 with half of that benefit derived from the expiration of the amortization of advisory retention awards that were put in place at the time of the Merrill Lynch merger. The rest of the improvement was a result of work across many categories of expense more than offsetting higher FDIC cost.

Moving to slide 16, we continue to see overall solid client engagement. Client balances approached $2.5 trillion and are up from Q2, including higher market valuations, $10 billion of long-term AUM flows and continued loan and deposit growth.

Average deposits compared against Q3 2015 are up 4%, driven by growth in the second half of 2015. Compared to Q2 average deposits were impacted by seasonal tax payments.

Average loans were up 7% year over year. Growth remained concentrated in consumer real estate and structured lending.

Lastly, earlier this month we announced some innovations to our IRA products and services which we believe positions us to better serve our clients given new fiduciary rules. These innovations are industry-leading and address not only the new fiduciary rules for time and accounts but also client preference for more choice and new ways to invest. First, we announced the rollout of a new offering called Merrill Edge Guided Investing.

This solution offers clients online investing enhanced with professional portfolio management. With the addition of this solution, clients have three fundamental choices which they can mix and match to best meet their needs. Clients can invest online completely self-directed through Merrill Edge or if they are interested in enhanced professional portfolio management they will be able to use Merrill Edge Guided Investing or they can choose fully advised, working one-on-one with a financial advisor via brokerage or fee-based advisory platforms.

We also announced that beginning in April 2017 for clients that choose to have a financial advisor provide advice with respect to their IRA accounts, we will provide this service to our fee-based advisory platform, Merrill Lynch One as we believe this is the best way for us to deliver for our IRA clients who choose to have this level of service and advice. Clients will also have the option to invest their retirement through Merrill Edge either completely self-directed or through Merrill Edge Guided Investing.

Turning to slide 17, Global Banking earned $1.6 billion which is up 22% year over year. Q3 reflects good revenue growth, solid cost control and solid client activity. The efficiency ratio improved to 45% in Q3.

Compared to previous third quarters, investment banking fees this quarter were the highest since the merger with Merrill in 2009. Return on allocated capital was 17%, a 300 basis point improvement from Q3 2015 despite adding a couple of billion dollars of allocated capital this year. Global Banking continues to drive loan growth within its risk and client frameworks, producing solid year-over-year improvement in NII.

Revenue growth also benefited from roughly $175 million from gains on FVO loans this quarter versus losses in Q3 2015. Higher treasury fees also added to revenue growth. The decrease in noninterest expense compared to Q3 2015 reflects good expense control that offset modestly higher revenue-related compensation and higher FDIC costs.

Looking at the trends on slide 18 and comparing to Q3 last year, average loans on a year-over-year basis grew $26 billion or 8%. Growth was broad-based across large corporates as well as middle-market borrowers and diversified across most products.

Having said that, as we noted last quarter the pace of commercial loan growth has slowed over the past couple of quarters. Demand across the industry appears to have slowed as well. We remain diligent in certain sectors such as commercial real estate and energy and we are also closely monitoring certain international regions.

Average deposits increased from Q3 2015, up $10 billion of 3% from both new and existing clients. As we grow treasury services we remain focused on quality deposits with respect to LCR.

Switching to Global Markets on slide 19, let me start by reviewing what I said last quarter regarding this segment. The past few quarters are examples of the importance of this segment to not only its clients around the world but also to the customers and clients of all our business segments. Again this quarter, Global Markets delivered for clients by helping them raise capital, buy and sell securities as well as manage risk.

We continue to invest in and enjoy leadership positions across a broad range of products. We believe this improves our sustainability -- we believe this improves the sustainability of our revenue and makes us more relevant to clients across the globe. We've been there for clients when they needed us across all these products.

Our results this quarter reflect this strategy and continued commitment to clients. Global Markets earned $1.1 billion and returned 12% on allocated capital. Revenue was up appreciably year over year and even outpaced typical seasonality by posting modest improvement over Q2 2016.

Total revenue excluding DVA was up 20% year over year on solid sales and trading results which rose 18%. It's worth noting we achieved these results with slightly less balance sheet, lower VAR and 7% fewer people. Continued expense discipline drove cost 1% lower year over year as increases in revenue-related incentives were more than offset by reductions in operating and support costs.

Moving to trends on slide 20 and focusing on the components of our sales and trading performance, sales and trading revenue of $3.7 billion excluding DVA was up 18% from Q3 2015 driven by FICC. In terms of revenue this was the best third quarter in five years. Excluding DVA and versus Q3 2015, FICC sales and trading of $2.8 billion increased 39% as we built momentum as the quarter progressed across a host of credit products and continued gains in rates products.

Mortgages showed particular strength among credit products as investors sought yield. Equity sales and trading was solid at $1 billion in revenue but declined 17% versus Q3 2015 which benefited from higher levels of market volatility and client activity.

On slide 21 we present All Other which recorded a net loss of $118 million. This loss includes a previously disclosed tax charge of $350 million due to the third-quarter UK enactment of a tax rate reduction which reduced the value of our UK DTA. The loss in the current period compares to earnings of $152 million in Q3 2015 as lower security gains and higher expense litigation offset higher mortgage banking revenue. NBI revenue this quarter includes $280 million benefit from higher valuations on our MSR driven by slower expected prepaid speeds based upon recent observed trends in customer behavior.

Okay, let me offer a few takeaways as I finish. We reported solid results this quarter that were consistent with our strategy of responsible growth. We remain focused on delivering responsible growth as well as strengthening and simplifying Bank of America.

Capital and liquidity strengthened. Asset quality remains strong. We grew revenue.

We grew deposits. We grew loans. We delivered for clients in capital markets.

We lowered costs. We invested in our future by adding sales professionals and deploying technology that helps customers better live their financial lives and improves satisfaction. And, importantly, we returned more capital to our shareholders.

With that let's open it up to questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John McDonald, Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning guys. I wanted to ask about expenses.

Could you talk about what kind of timing expectations you have on the various projects helping to drive down your expenses further in 2017 and 2018? Maybe just remind us what are some of the big items that you are working on? And should we still think about $53 billion in 2018 as your hard target that you are shooting for?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Well let me start with the last part first. Nothing has changed at all for our thoughts regarding the 2018 target that we discussed in the second-quarter call. Again I would note that year over year we reduced expenses by $0.5 billion.

And I would also just point out to remind everybody that if you look at expenses over a longer term we reduced quarterly expenses ex-litigation by $4.8 billion from Q3 2011. That's a $19 billion run rate.

So if you think about what we have to do between now and 2018, I think we've talked about this before, roughly a third of that is going to come from continued progress on the (technical difficulty) loan servicing. The other two-thirds is going to come from a lot of different initiatives across the Company.

We've talked about SIM, our Simplify and Improve initiative. We are going to be utilizing technology to digitize processes, eliminating handling costs. We are going to get technology efficiencies from our data centers consolidation and for more efficient servers.

As I said, we are going to continue to make progress on delinquent loan servicing costs, hopefully see some modest improvement in litigation. Very important part of this is the shift to self-serve digital channels: mobile, online, ATM. So that's what the list sounds like and it goes on and on.

I would emphasize this shift to self-serve. We're seeing good momentum with more than 21 million mobile banking active users. And that's growing every week, every month.

18% of our deposit transactions are now completed through mobile devices. That's better for customers.

It's also better for our shareholders. It's 1/10 the cost of walking into a branch.

So it's all these things put together. It's initiatives across the whole Company. It's going to come a lot from support and operations, but there's a little bit in the front office, as well, as we get more efficient.

JOHN MCDONALD: In terms of the timing, Paul, is it something that we should think of is ramping throughout 2017? And is it have a longer tail at the end? Can you give us a sense there?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, I would say it's going to be fairly spread out throughout the whole process. However, as you think about one quarter over a next, it's not going to be straight down every quarter. Not every quarter is the same, there's going to be some lumpiness.

If you look at the fourth quarter, for example, we traditionally have some seasonality in the fourth quarter. So generally we will make progress but don't expect that you are going to see it in every single quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks. And then a second question just quickly on net interest income.

Can you help us try to translate your 100 basis point rate sensitivity into something closer to what one Fed hike might do for your net interest income? And what would be the trajectory of NII and NIM if we did get a Fed hike this quarter? What would you expect more in the near term next quarter, too, on NII and NIM?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. So let me I can help you through that. So if you look about a 25 basis point, that would be one quarter of our $5.3 billion in sensitivity.

If you want to assume that 25 basis points increases the long end by 25 basis points you know the answer. you can roughly take a quarter of it, perhaps even a little bit more, because we're probably more asset sensitive on the first 25 than the last 25 of that 100.

But if you don't want to increase on the long end just look at the short end. We've disclosed its $3.3 billion. You can divide that by four and get a pretty good sense of what 25 basis points would do over the subsequent 12 months.

JOHN MCDONALD: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi, thanks very much. Just curious for a point of clarification, Brian had mentioned Global Markets. It feels like it's taking a little share, alluded to global peers restructuring.

Completely get it, believe it's going to happen. Just curious if you can give a little color on where you might see some of that evidence taking shape. Product, geography, whatever?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, I will try to do that but let me just start with a couple of thoughts. First of all, I think it's difficult to see share shifts in Global Markets in any given quarter. The fee pools are just not as transparent as they are in, let's say, investment banking fees or other areas.

What we know is client activity was up in the third quarter and that's what drives our short-term results. Over the longer term it is easier just to assess what's going on with fee pools and share. So I just want to point out from 2014 to 2015 on declining fee pools we're pretty sure we improved our share.

Third parties tell us that. And I think that share has come from a number of regions and a number of firms and a number of products as competitors adjust their strategies and capabilities.

More specifically, we've been investing in rates for a number of years. I think we're making some progress there. We have a very strong credit platform, as you know.

I think we are making progress there relative to competitors around the world. And I think we are investing in equities. And I think equities revenue is down, but we are seeing an improvement relative to the fee pool in equities as well.

I do want to emphasize, very importantly, that our strategy is to have a diversified product portfolio across both FICC and equities and globally. That's what our clients need and want from us. And so you could see gains one quarter in one place and see something lower in another place, and that's okay with us.

That's our strategy. It's about what the client needs in any given quarter. If we are doing a little bit worse in one place we are probably doing better in another place.

GLENN SCHORR: Fair enough. Nature of the business, I guess. One other, one in GWIM I appreciate all the color on the different products and what you are doing in Wealth Management.

The curious move in the quarter was the move away from the commission-based IRAs. And I'm curious, is that move specifically done to avoid the best interest contract?

I'm just curious, based on how we roll forward if the SEC comes in what that might mean. You talked about giving customer choice, but this sounds like less choice for the FA.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Clients are going to have three ways to invest in their IRAs: they are going to continue to do it completely self-directed through Merrill Edge, they are going to be able to do it online but enhanced with professional portfolio managed through Merrill Edge Guided Investing and, again, for those clients who want one-on-one advice and service from their FA they are going to be able to do that on a fee-based advisory platform. What we've decided not to do is use the best interest exemption to allow IRA accounts to be added to our brokerage platform where clients pay on a transaction basis.

After reviewing all her options, let's say, if a client chooses one-on-one advice and service on her IRA we believe the best way to provide that advice is through Merrill Lynch One on our fee-based advisory platform. We took a lot of time to make this decision.

We took months thinking about this. We did research. We believe this is the best interest of our clients and our advisors.

GLENN SCHORR: I don't doubt that. I worry about just the execution of it. I'm assuming that it means that the advisor has to talk to the client and explain this whole thing and just --

PAUL DONOFRIO: That's right but the advisor is going to have to talk to their clients and explain the best interest exemption. That's going to be much harder a conversation than the one we are going to have.

GLENN SCHORR: Fair enough. All right, thanks, Paul.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, good morning. A couple of questions. Just one on loan growth.

Could you give us a sense as to how you think you are trajecting there? We talked a little bit about market share and trading, could we talk a little bit about how you think you are doing in the lending side of the equation and if there's any legs there?

PAUL DONOFRIO: We feel good about loan growth. The economy feels good, so we are confident we can grow. But, of course, there's going to be some uncertainty and as I said in certain sectors in certain regions around the world.

I would remind you that we are focused on responsible growth. So we are going to look a little bit different than some of our competitors in some places but we feel good. Year over year if you look at our business segments we had 7% loan growth.

BETSY GRASECK: So one of the areas that I just want to dig in a little bit more to is on the mortgage side where you have had some good loan growth. But I'm just wondering if there's more opportunity there as it relates to either taking some duration exposures or on credit as you've moved into some wider credit boxes with my first home which is insured by Fannie, Freddie but just want to get some color on that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Betsy, if you go to page 6 of the materials you can see that we are continuing in the mortgage area overall. So I think both in the home equity and first mortgage loans.

You can see that we continue to run off some of the non-core portfolios and overall the balances grow in the business segments. And we expect that to continue. We are doing about 2,000 applications a day, about 1,000 each plus in each of the products that has continued to grow. And so we will continue to drive that core capability to the customer.

In terms of expansion of product sets we have a limited product for that we've built for similar to 3% down payment for $0.5 billion a year of production just to give us a more competitive product there but limited the size. And we will do some other things, but we are going to stick with the core credit.

Remember who you are talking to here, Betsy, and our experience in mortgage is probably deeper than most people. So we will stick with what our customers need and what we think the right business for the Company is.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, so as you are thinking about your revenue growth from here, which are the three key legs that you expect are going to keep that revenue growth going?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think if you think about the growth you've got the interest side and you've got the fee side. And if you look at the interest side it's going to be driven by balanced growth between loans and deposits. And I think we keep growing deposits year over year $60 billion, we are paying 4 basis points in Consumer and think about that dynamic and putting that to work in anything we can is important.

And we continue to grow loans at less rate than we grow deposits. That's going to drive our NIM is just a bigger and bigger, lower lower cost deposit base.

And on the loan side I think Consumer is growing better now than commercial linked quarter but overall we expect commercial will kick back in a little bit as the economy continues and some of the uncertainty lifts in the political season here. So on loans and deposits it will just be growing and now as you've seen year over year core growth of 7% on loans and growth on deposits.

On the fee side what you are seeing is the dynamic in especially consumer fee areas finally turn a little bit stable and then turning for us in the card revenue and things like that, which we've hit sort of the inflection point where the run down and relative interchange due to selling some portfolios and getting out of non-core portfolios and putting on the core portfolios with rewards attached to it which helps us generates deposits and things like that has stabilized and you are starting to see in the last few quarters card income start to move up a bit.

And on service charges it's been relatively stable. So the fee side will be driven more by Wealth Management markets and things like that. And Consumer is stable, which is good because it had been a drag for a long time.

BETSY GRASECK: And then on the expense side you indicated all the various technology efforts that you've got underway but is there more that you can do on the comp side as well?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We continued -- when we have less people going through our bonus pools and stuff you can see that comp continues to drift down. A large part of a comp, obviously, is the financial, in the Wealth Management business which there is no meaningful changes there. But in the other business we continue, as we have less people we continue to reduce that as a percentage of revenues.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hey, good morning. Maybe you could talk a little bit about the credit cycle.

I think one of the major pushback from investors is that we are going to start to see credit get worse but I think you guys have been pretty clear that you are not lowering standards to drive growth. So how do you think about the cycle from here, I guess that's the start?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I said earlier if you think about the last several quarters of earnings calls it's been getting better than this and every quarter it gets slightly better. And that in part is because we are still getting the benefits of the changes made six, seven, eight years ago coming through the Consumer business i.e., that what we call back book portfolios or legacy portfolios or whatever word you want to use continue to run off with higher credit risk. And we keep putting on and have put on and continue to put on higher credit quality.

So I think if you think about overall charge-offs of 880 this quarter that's a driven by the Consumer business and that's driven by the card and the legacy home equities. So keeping the card business where we want it is critical and you are seeing this continue even as we start to grow that portfolio, both nominally and rate the charge-off picture is strong. And so when you go back and look at what happened during the crisis the charge-offs came normally from the edges of credit and we've kept ourselves out of it.

JIM MITCHELL: So you feel like you can keep your lease ratios as you grow pretty stable?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have done that.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay. And maybe a follow-up on the capital ratios. Paul, I saw that the RWAs dropped while the balance sheet grew a little bit, so it seems like you've reduced risk. I guess where was that and can that continue?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, you are speaking under the advanced approaches we had a drop. We had it under standardized as well just a little bit less. And that drop came, again, from legacy portfolios running off and from continued work by our Global Markets teams to better manage their balance sheet relative to those ratios.

JIM MITCHELL: Is there any more detail or can you get a little more from here?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, look there's always more to do and we are focused on a lot of different regulatory metrics. We are looking at all of them. There are some that may be a little bit more important than others.

Right now we are focused on all of them. And I think there is more to come there.

Obviously, as we do grow the balance sheet, as we grow loans and deposits we are going to continue to see some increase particularly on the standardized side. But I think we can, relative to that growth I think we can continue to make a little bit of progress incrementally.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Can you talk about the strategy within the securities book?

You did mention that you added some later in the quarter and, obviously, deposit growth has been exceeding loan growth to justify that. But maybe just some color in terms of what you are buying, the duration and how to make sure it doesn't get too big relative to the size of the balance sheet.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: You pick up on the core thing that drives. We have a securities portfolio because we have more deposits coming in, then we have loans. So our view of that portfolio is we don't take credit risk there and so we have two alternatives, treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, or cash I guess is a third.

And so that's how we invest it. And Paul can take you through his earlier comments a little bit and give you some color on that. But I think people always have to remember the reason why we have more is because our deposits grew at $60 billion year over year and that's more than our loans grew by quite a bit.

So, Paul, do you want to answer, give some color on that?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Just one step back. Obviously what we are doing every day is managing earnings, capital liquidity and interest rate risk when we think about that portfolio and where we want to invest things. This quarter as you noted our deposit growth exceeded loan growth and so we did add significantly to the investment portfolio.

Most of that incremental amount we devoted to treasuries. Just as we think about the balance in that portfolio we wanted to just add a little bit more treasuries. That's really kind of it.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then a little bit related but on the deposit side, obviously, very strong growth year over year. You mentioned $60 billion and really little to no repricing despite the one bump in Fed rates that should impact the year-over-year comps.

So I guess the question is if we do get a rate increase, do you think you've got more flexibility to limit deposit repricing given it's basically worked so far and the loan growth is, obviously, not enough to absorb the deposit growth you have?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Remember that the reason why you don't see much repricing is really two or three dynamics. One is a full $450 billion of our deposits are noninterest-bearing. So they aren't going to reprice.

The great debate is about how sticky are those? And if you think about that, those are dominated by our Consumer business and our noninterest-bearing accounts in Consumer have doubled in size over the last five or six years due to focusing on primary accounts, grew up to 90% primary accounts in the household where they run their household finances through our account and, therefore, they direct deposit their check and things like that.

So the first thing to remember is that $1.2 trillion, $450 million noninterest-bearing and a dominant and part of that Consumer and also in the Wealth Management and the transactional account of both Consumers. And then on the business side similarly we have a driven our deposits to be really LCR friendly into core operating accounts.

And so those aren't going to move, they are noninterest-bearing and they aren't going to move much and the big debate is how much balance will be in there and we feel confident the balances will stay just because of the nature of the accounts. And then when you go to the second dynamic, remember that even with all this deposit growth one of the things we continue to do and the impact is less and less is we are expecting Consumer business running off CDs still at a fairly decent clip that were historically used to fund prior companies' balance sheets that we don't need the funding that cost. So we have some rollover but that continues to decline.

That weighted average cost drops off -- that cost drops off and drives down or hold steady the average weighted cost. And then if you look at money markets and other interest-bearing they really haven't moved much.

So we feel good about the consumer -- we feel good about the deposit base overall. We feel very good about the consumer deposit base, just crossed $600 billion for the first time in the Company's history in Consumers generally.

And with that, I think if rates rise we think that it's substantial value for the Company. And Paul gave you a way to think about that earlier with a quarter of $3.3 billion -- 25% of $3.3 billion.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks, good morning. I want to ask about the card business a little bit. I saw in the deck that you grew card issuance at the fastest level since 2008, but we are not really -- and there is a burden on the fee side, with reward stuff, balances are still flat.

I was wondering if you could walk us forward and help us understand a little bit better just the ROA and income direction of the card business? When do we start to see that show up in both balances? And when do expect to see that fee growth come along for the ride given the good underlying growth that we haven't quite seen yet in the financials?

PAUL DONOFRIO: So look, I think you are noticing some modest card balance growth in the quarter, which we think will continue as we add new accounts. And, again, we are very focused on adding high-quality accounts there.

I think you probably also noticed that while combined debit and credit card spend was good in the quarter at 5%, 6% if you include fuel, I'm adjusting for divestitures last year, that the growth in the card income was impacted by, as you noted, customer reward programs. However, I think just focusing on the fee income misses some really key benefits of our strategy which is to attract relatively higher-quality card customers and reward them for deepening their overall relationship with us.

This strategy really drives deposit growth and makes deposits stickier, plus we believe these customers have lower loss rates. They use the call center less which helps us lower costs. I think when you want to see the effect of this you have to look at the overall Consumer segment and what's going on there in terms of growth of profits and improvement in expenses.

And just lastly I would just point out, look, our risk adjusted margins on card are strong at over 9%. This is in no way a signaling that we are not going to be able to grow the card income line. I just want you to get a better sense of how we think about it.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think if you think about that more broadly, we had the last divestitures of size we made in this card business were the fourth quarter of last year and they are through the P&L, so they are through the balances and through the thing. So what you are starting to see if you look at the trend this year is you are starting to see movement, positive movement both in card income and in balances as we move across the year. And we expect that to continue.

It will be strong, responsible growth. And one of the great debates we have in the Company is people say, why can't you grow this faster? Or why can't, we are giving up too much in the interchange for the preferred balance or preferred rewards, the interesting question is are you giving up something you'd never have in the preferred rewards i.e., we are bringing more customer relationships in depth and that gets us something.

So incrementally the net interchange is actually there as opposed to what theoretically you get gross interchange with a non-customer in an affinity program. So we focus on the entire customer relationship. It is very valuable, it is very profitable and believe me if we could grow it faster responsibly we would.

But the idea is just to grind out the slow, steady growth and we are starting to see that come through. And largely it was masked in 2014, 2015 and behind that 2013, those areas because we were divesting a lot of non-core relationships and now we have the core affinities we want and we have the core card businesses we want.

PAUL DONOFRIO: And, again, I think you can see it if you look at the whole segment. I don't want to start comparing us to peers, but just take a look at our PPNR year over year. It's up 10%.

KEN USDIN: Understood. Second quick question is you mentioned that you are now achieving the cost of capital in an ROE above 10% and capital is still building.

Do you think you can continue to hold if not improve the ROE as capital will likely continue to grow, presuming that you still will get those benefits going forward and you are not at the point of returning more than 100% of your earnings yet?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think embedded in that is the future return of capital. And we now have a significant buffer above the requirements. And as Paul said we continue to try to optimize our core.

So I think you are a little bit of a horse race between increasing earnings and increasing capital. And as we return more you expect that the horse race of increasing earnings would stay ahead of it. But we've got room to go and we are driving at it.

But if we don't hit -- if the issue is that our capital continues to grow, that capital is also yours as an investor and continues to go into our book value. And so it's not going anywhere. It's there to be returned when we can get through the process of getting from where we are to higher percentages of capital return and ultimately returning excess capital.

PAUL DONOFRIO: And we have a goal to return more.

KEN USDIN: Understood. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, you've reduced your branch count from 6,000 to 4,600. Where do you think that count can go? And on the one hand we heard you say almost 1 million customers walk into branches each day but on the other hand you have grown deposits $1.2 trillion.

You did mention more self-service digital channels. You did mention mobile banking is 18% of the deposit transactions. And less reliance on the branches might ease any extra pressure to sell more products in this low rate environment.

So where do you think you might take the branch count to? And I don't think you mentioned the impact of the cross-selling issues on Bank of America or if we wake up one day and find out that Bank of America did something inappropriate.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, let's go to how we run our Consumer business. So we run our Consumer business consistent with responsible growth for the Company. And what that means is that you focus on deepening relationships, what we call a stairstep where the core deposit account, the quarter credit card and getting it used in the core mortgage, in the core home-equity and the core auto loans.

That's what's been driving it and we'll continue to drive that. That is the backbone of what we did and how we repositioned this Company over many years.

In terms of the branches, Mike, you rattled off all the statistics which Paul talked about earlier. But it is a complex optimization, but it all starts with the consumer. What is the consumer going to do?

And so while 18% of deposits are made by mobile deposits, 82% by their nature aren't and where do they go, about 50 percentage points of that go through the ATM machines and about another 30% odd go through the teller line still today. And so you have to be ready and able to serve in all dynamics.

And so what we continue to do is optimize the branch structure, the call structure, the ATM structure, the mobile structure and the online structure altogether. And the way to think about that optimization and why it's an extremely important business to this Company is that we've gone from 300 basis points of the cost of all that to deposits to about 150 over the last six, seven years. And that's by continuing to optimize the physical plant as well as all these other means.

And so if you ask me your question is how far can go? You have to also then think about what we want to go on at a branch.

And so if you look back at some of the statistics that Paul had in the deck for Consumer where you see things like appointments set up or 340,000 in the third quarter, so just think about that. 340,000 times a customer went on a mobile phone and asked to come to a branch.

And so we need those branches to receive those mobile phone customers and why are they coming? Usually for a much more important financial transaction to them than handing us a check for deposit. So it's a quality versus quantity and making sure we understand that.

So we are optimizing all those and you can see on page 14 on the lower right you can see the different moves. I'd say we went from 7 million visits probably four or five years ago to 6 million to 5 million. But those five are of a higher quality and we think that's important.

And there certain transactions and certain capabilities that you just have to have at your branch, you just have to do face-to-face. Very difficult things like how to get a power of attorney for a parent that's sick or I want to do a mortgage, it's still difficult to do through the phone and things like that. So we will have all aspects, we will drive it down and you can see that we continue to make that progress.

MIKE MAYO: I mean just as a follow-up, on slide 14 it's kind of thing Bank of America we're a FinTech Company, and look how well we are doing. And you are showing some good growth rates, that chart on the upper right.

So at what point does that lead to a greater number of branch reductions? Is this do you have the answer and you don't want to say for competitive reasons? Or you don't know yet, it's kind of a give-and-take based on the customer experience?

Some of your competitors talk about closing 100 to 200 branches per year. You've reduced 112 over the last year but it seems to be slowing. So I'm trying to get a sense of that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I'd say that the point is that we run this business and we start with the consumer and their activities and their behaviors, and so what they want to do. And the key is not to get ahead of them because that can cause you problems and not to be behind them because that can be cost issues and empty branches.

So even in the 112 we are down we've added branches. And places like Denver, the Denver branch that we added are in the top 10% of performing branches today on relationship building. We've added branches in Manhattan, we've added branches in Minneapolis.

So we are in a sea change in terms of what the branches look like individually. The new branches are different. We are adding branches we didn't have and we are closing branches where the utilization isn't there.

The nature of how far a customer will travel is also different now than it was 10, 15 years ago. So I think you said what all the different reasons? The answer is I think you said is we will follow the customer.

And I don't know the exact number because I can tell you eight years ago when we had 6,100 there were people that said there was never going to be less branches in our system and maybe we should add more. And guess what? We are 4,600 -- 4,500.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR & Company.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Yes, thank you very much. You guys took an MSR write-up or hedging benefit, I can't really which one it is, about $360 million. But you did write up the MSR from 51 basis points to 60 basis points.

Was that all rate driven? The 10-year did go up a little bit. Or was that also some better credit metrics out of the servicing portfolio?

PAUL DONOFRIO: You are right, we had a $280 million benefit this quarter and that was from a higher valuation of the MSR, which was due to slower observed prepayment speeds. So we are just updating our -- the way we value that.

We have to monitor -- it's a level III assets, so there's a lot of things that go into that. It's hard to value and you've got to continually be looking at that valuation. And we thought it was time based upon observations of prepayment speeds to make a change in some key assumptions.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, guys. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thanks. I just wanted to follow up on a couple of questions related to the various consumer lending businesses.

First, Paul, just from your response to Ken's question a moment ago on card, I heard everything you said about the risk-adjusted margin and the credit quality of the portfolio, etc. But just to be clear, are you expecting improving, stable or deteriorating ROA based on the current competitive environment? Because it seems like many peers are underscoring the near-term risks to profitability from rewards and customer acquisition costs.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Based upon how we are growing the business, how we are running the business we expect stability.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Stability, okay great. And with respect to mortgage I saw there was about $100 million benefit from rep and warrant release. How much of that research still exists and what would be your expectations about potentially realizing it at this stage given where we are with respect to that issue?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I think the rep and warranty is a contra-revenue. So is that what you are referring to?

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Yes, correct. It's the provision line item. You had a negative provision.

PAUL DONOFRIO: So that's going to bump around. That bumps around because --

LEE MCENTIRE: Hey, Eric, it's Lee. I think what you are looking at, what Paul is referring to is the contra-revenue item. So it's a negative revenue item when it's a provision expense on the provision, okay?

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay, maybe I will come back to you in a bit. Just finally on auto, it seemed that some peers were signaling that competitive conditions in auto underwriting were easing a bit after intensifying over the past several quarters. Are you seeing anything like that across any particular segment of the FICO strata?

PAUL DONOFRIO: We are continuing to see good growth in consumer vehicle lending the way that we run the business. We are up roughly 7% or $7 billion or 17% year over year. Again, though, we are focused on prime and super prime.

So originations were down modestly Q3 versus the prior quarter as we accepted a little bit less dealer flow but we still feel good about that product offering. The third-quarter average book FICO scores remained at approximately 770. Debt to income was at all-time lows.

We are not following the market expansion to 84 months in terms of tenor. We have got a maximum tenor of 75 and I think in the third quarter we were averaging around 67. So we are getting the growth within our responsible growth framework and we feel good about it.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES CO., LTD.: Hi, good morning. So I want to kick things off with a follow-up to an earlier question on the DOL.

Paul, you had noted that Merrill FAs will no longer be permitted to engage in brokerage activities in retirement accounts. And I was hoping you can give us an update as to what portion of Merrill client assets are currently in brokerage IRA?

And maybe more specifically, how should we think about the net economic impact from transitioning some of those retirement assets into some of the other offerings that you highlighted, whether it be fee-based which should generate higher fees versus robo or self-directed Merrill Edge?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. So the primary affected portion of our business is in the transactional brokerage retirement accounts.

And if you look at our roughly $2 trillion of GWIM client assets outside of loans and deposits we would see the DOL rule having an impact on significantly less than 10% of those balances. And, again, that's as the industry works towards the full implementation of the rule in January 2018.

So as you noted we are going to see some geography movement on the P&L. There's going to be some shifts.

And if I had to guess today we might see some modest revenue impact in 2017. But it's really way too early to know how it's all going to shake out. But we would expect to mitigate that in subsequent years.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: People, Steve, when you talk about backing up to the fuller trends on Wealth Management and there's been a constant decline in brokerage revenue over the years largely because the industry and we have been moving more to a financial device to manage the account execution. And so in, obviously, a limited portion of that is IRA-related in both counts. But the reality is this is against the backdrop that you will see, that brokerage number has the number has been tough to chase for five years now.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Got it. Okay. And just one other quick follow-up on the same topic, the press article have highlighted some of the changes that you've made indicated that some clients that would transition to the, quote, higher touch advisory offerings will be rebated some incremental fees.

And I was wondering how are you planning to apply changes to the fee structure for those brokerage assets that do, in fact, transition? I'm just struggling to see how a two-tiered structure might work in practice across the hundreds of billions of assets that would be affected here?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think the implementation has to be very carefully handled. And the team, Andy and John, have been leaders in trying to figure this out the right way for the client. And we start with what's best for the client.

So what you are reading about is there will be adjustments made clients by clients based on their circumstances and what they want from us. And the FAs will engage in a lot of conversations about that as we go through the next several months.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Got it. Okay, thanks Brian. Then just one more on the topic of capital, just switching gears for a moment.

Following Tarullo's recent remarks, there's one area of debate has been whether the Collins Floor would, in fact, apply to this new capital framework, i.e. whether you will be forced to manage to capital minimums under both the standardized and advanced approaches. And now that you've had some time to digest the initial release or guidance I was wondering if you can give us any insights into how you are thinking about that potential change?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Okay, well, look that's, obviously, a pretty technical question. And it's not that we haven't thought about it, but to be frank it's just a speech at this point and he didn't really address that in his speech. So we don't know the answer.

That's one of the questions we have. I think once we get the Fed's proposal we will have a better idea. But all I can tell you is based upon our current reading of the speech, in particular some of the changes you mentioned in CCAR around asset growth, we think that the substitution of the capital conversion, conservation buffer, sorry, capital conservation buffer with the stress capital buffer would not be a material change for Bank of America given our risk profile and given how we run the Company.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Got it. I recognize it's early days, Paul, so I appreciate you taking, making the effort to answer the question. And that's it for me.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Autonomous Research.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: Good morning. I guess we've had a couple of good quarters in FICC both for you and the industry and I know volatile business not really looking for quarterly expectations.

But just more broadly there is an investor debate, is it just a couple of good quarters or has the business absorbed all the changes in regulation, absorbed low rates, absorbed all the restructuring required and the cycles inflecting FICCs at the bottom and has upward pressure from here? So where do you come in on the debate? Is it a couple of good quarters at this point or has FICC bottomed?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, the way I come at that debate is to go back along many years ago and think through the repositioning that was done in our Company and so the key was to make FICC work. You are talking more revenue, but we look at profit.

And so to get the profit we needed to out of the fixed income and equities business we had to take the cost structure down which we did in 2010 and 2011. Tom Montag and the team worked very hard at that and got breakeven down over $1 billion a quarter.

And then we ran along a number of years and then they've actually had taken out, year over year you can see the costs continue to be managed well despite higher revenue. So I would say taking the discussion I'd say the way our fixed income business generates revenue a lot of it is around our capabilities, underwriting capabilities in all the different variations from high-grade leverage to everything that goes on. And that's a relatively stable pool of revenue that you see repeated.

What goes up or down is really the activity around that based on the market seizing up in certain quarters in terms of issuance and things like that. When you think about the other thing that Tom and the team had to really go after which is to broaden our capabilities in the macro segment a little bit because that was something that traditionally the Bank of America Merrill Lynch teams came together. And he has done that so that's added some more volume to us.

So we think we've been gaining share, as Paul said earlier. When you look at revenue comparison among the top 10 banks without all the leak charge for just revenue, and we think it's driven by our fixed income capabilities and it's driven by our connectivity from the issuer of the bonds in debt to the investor. And we will continue to drive that.

And so the team has done a good job. And I'd say we are at a fundamental level.

This quarter feels better than last year's quarter. It's not a quarter that when you look across four or five years that we haven't come close to on many cases and have done better than a few times.

BRIAN FORAN: Thank you for that. I guess a similar question on commercial lending.

You referenced some of the strategies you have in place driving responsible growth and how you felt good about the business going forward. But we saw this pause across the industry in the third quarter in commercial growth, the Fed numbers, your numbers, other banks reporting so far. Have you seen signs of customer demands coming back, I guess, late in 3Q and early in 4Q, do you have visibility and confidence that the commercial loan growth cycle more broadly is still in gear?

PAUL DONOFRIO: We feel -- I think let me start with what we noticed in commercial in the quarter was lower industry growth this quarter I think that really reflected a slowdown in closed, actually booked closed acquisition financing for us, which is probably maybe could be different for peers depending on the timing of transactions and then uncertainty around the election and then I think some lingering concerns around certain countries or regions. That's what I think impacted the third quarter.

When you look at the US, when you look around the globe, when you look at GDP growth we are optimistic. We think the economy feels good. So in a good economy we should be able to grow commercial loans.

We will have to stay focused on some sectors in some regions but we think we can grow commercial loans. Utilization rates and revolvers, they came off their highs but they are at the higher end of the range which also suggests or reflects good commercial activity.

We are adding bankers in the US in commercial banking and small business. We are adding them to regions where we know we have some synergies or some capabilities, some big MSAs. So there's no reason why we can't grow within our responsible growth framework assuming the economy continues to chug along here.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Also if you think about by sub asset class, in real estate we modulate our growth there based on our view of wanting a diverse portfolio and then how we lend in the business. And if you see that number it was growing and it has flattened out a little bit and that relative to others that was the difference. But I think to Paul's last point is a key point.

There are creditworthy customers that we can do more with and the only way to do that is because we have a talented world-class commercial banking team is to add more capacity. And that capacity is starting to build, and it takes a while because you hire a commercial banker and we sometimes give them some of the undercovered names in our portfolio or else then they go after the prospects that we have, then it takes a while to build those up. People don't change their commercial banking relationships in an afternoon.

So in our business banking and our middle market, especially across America, we have been adding commercial bankers and we expect that to redound to our benefit. Given an environment which may be solid but okay we'd expect to gain share in those markets as those bankers come on stream and become more productive and Alastair Borthwick and Katy Knox, the team that's driving that, has proven that those bankers do get share and you will see that come through.

BRIAN FORAN: Thank you both.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning guys. We are all, of course, very attuned to the issue of fraud after the recent news at Wells Fargo, both on the customer side and on the employee side.

I guess my question to you would be as you move more to digital methods of attracting customers and keeping customers, etc., is fraud on either side becoming a bigger issue? Or if you could just speak to the whole issue of how you prevent fraud as you become a more electronic bank.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think when you think about fraud most people think about in terms of the electronic side most people think about credit card fraud and fraud as a broad worded, arguments about whether the charge was valid, whether a merchant and things like that. So there's a long history of adjudicating that.

So more and more sales go online by the consumer the techniques for online are continuing to develop. At face to face or point-of-sale, the chip card when we are largely through our customers having chip cards, merchants, what we call chip-on-chip, i.e. our chip card used with a merchant chip machine is rising a percent or so a quarter and is now as best we judge it in the 30s, the high 20s or something like that, Nancy.

So all that being said, we expect to get leverage in our fraud losses in a Consumer business year over year and we expect that to continue to come down. So yes, that is a major initiative for us to continue to drive that down.

Part of it is education to consumers, part of it is getting the chip cards in the hands and getting the machine, merchants using the chip machines. Part of it is the tokenization and the wallets and things that go on in Visa Checkout and all the variations of MasterCard and getting, because that's a tokenized better execution and is more secure.

So our view as a provider has been to adopt all these wallets and technologies that have this tokenization capabilities and that then drives down the cost of losses due to merchant complaints and other types of things. So you are absolutely right: cyber security, theft of cards from other people and sold on the Internet, all that stuff is important to us. And so we spend, as we said, $0.5 billion a year protecting ourselves but also part of it is making sure we understand who our consumers are in terms of lost cards and things like that.

NANCY BUSH: Well how about on the other side, the employee side, opening false accounts. If you could just speak to how you think your methodology is different from what produced the problems at Wells Fargo.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Maybe I will take that one. Look, I want to take just one step back because to really answer that question you just have to have a better appreciation for how we run Bank of America. And it truly really does start with our purpose, which is to help customers better live their financial lives and then from there you have to understand what we mean by responsible growth.

So if you ask anybody in the Company, responsible growth, it's about developing relationships so that we can grow with our customers over time based upon their needs and goals. It's not about the number of products that we open. It's whether customers want or need the products and services we are offering them and use them.

That's how we measure ourselves. We've spent years building controls and governance and escalation around this. We are always monitoring them.

It's just how we run the Company. So that's probably the best answer I can give you in terms of how we think about this issue.

NANCY BUSH: And Brian, I have what is going to be a difficult question for you. But in response to the problems at Wells Fargo we have seen them separate the chairman and the CEO roles. And while that may have been due to exigent circumstances, do you foresee another push now either by regulators or by shareholders to separate those roles?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Nancy, I'd say this, we have dialogue with all our shareholders often and Jack Bovender, our Lead Independent Director. Obviously, we went through this a year or so ago. And last year the shareholders they voted on it, but the key is how we run the Company and how we govern ourselves.

So, again, Paul's view of what he talked about responsible growth, one of the tenets is to be sustainable and sustainable, all growth has to be sustainable and it involves things like you've got to invest in the future. But it also involves how we govern the Company.

And our Board, the independence of our Board, the experience on our Board, how they approach their responsibilities I think is very strong. And I think our shareholders have understood that and agreed with that.

So I think we govern ourselves in a very tough fashion i.e., the Board's demanding on us and understands the strategy and has helped support the strategy through some times when people would challenge it. And I think it's proven to be the right strategy at this point.

So if you get to the technicalities our Lead Independent Director duties are as strong as anybody's in the industry. If you look at all the new governance surveys that have come out, all the words about proper governance and all the different things you've seen recently, we meet or exceed everything anybody says to go to. So I feel comfortable with that.

NANCY BUSH: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. I just wanted to follow-up on the fiduciary rule questions before. So I appreciate retirement assets are less than 10% of your balances as you've highlighted before.

But I think what a lot of folks are thinking about here is that SEC has been pretty clear that they are working on their own version of this applying to taxable. And so when people watch what you are doing here on the fiduciary rule for retirement people it's sort logic to assume you would apply the same policy in the event we see a similar rule come out more broadly.

So isn't that the message that you are basically sending to FAs? And aren't you concerned that FAs might look at your platform versus some of your competitors that will offer the BIC and think that they might have greater amount of flexibility as some of those other platforms?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Okay, so look. When you look at advisor attrition today it's at all-times lows. And we don't expect significant attrition for the same reasons that attrition is low today. Merrill Lynch is a great place to work and serve your clients.

So if you are an FA you are looking at a platform, we have market-leading capabilities, we have breadth of products across banking and wealth management, we have lots of options in terms of servicing clients. We have got great technology that we are investing in, tremendous transparency that provided through Merrill Lynch One award-winning research and incredible global execution through global markets. So there's a lot of reasons to be here.

This is a great place to serve your clients. We are implementing a strategy that creates significant flexibility for our advisors. And we are delivering fiduciary best interest advice to clients.

I said it before. When we came to this decision not to use the best interest exemption after a lot of months of thinking and research, and this is better for our advisors and it's better for our clients. The best interest exemption is going to create confusion, it's got operational pain for clients, it's going to be inefficient and cumbersome for advisors. This is the best solution we believe for our clients and advisors.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And if you look at the brass tacks financials in the third quarter of 2016 we had $4.4 billion of revenue in our Wealth Management business. Of the $4.4 billion, $500 million of it in total was brokerage. And so this part of the business has been declining in favor of financial advice to the client and to managed portfolios that meet the needs of the client and have investment framers and decisions based on the client's goals.

So the goals-based method is the dominant method in our business. And so you've seen a constant growth in asset management fees, net interest income and other sources of revenue and, frankly, a constant decline in the brokerage business across many years. And so the SEC has an obligation in the rules to issue a rule on this at some point, and they will and we will adjust to that there, but it's consistent with where we have been taking the business for five or seven years.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Sure, sure. I get it and there's no question that commissions have been declining.

It is just that when you look at some of the asset classes like alternatives and such it's hard to get everything to fit into a fee-based approach. So that was the gist of my question. Maybe going a different direction --

PAUL DONOFRIO: Well, again, just to be clear we are not doing away with brokerage. Brokerage is going to be -- unless something changes in the industry, and that's going to affect everybody, we are not doing away with brokerage. Brokerage is a very important part of our advisory relationship and FAs will work that out with their clients what's best for them.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Right. But if we take the logical conclusion that your approach here with retirement would be similar to taxable under the assumption and, look, all of this, I am making assumptions with all of this, but we all have to, that the SEC comes out with a similar rule, then your option within to maintain brokerage is self-direct. And I could see how FAs might dislike the idea of having a component of their relationship move effectively away from them.

So what has been the response from FAs of this idea that if we want to maintain brokerage it has to go the self-directed route? And has that tapped in on any of the worries that some of these brokers have seen much of their book shift over to discount brokers that would fit in that type of an approach?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think you've stated yourself that you are making a lot of assumptions. Let's let it play out.

We have the biggest and most capable business in the world making more money and having better margins than anybody else. I think we will figure it out.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Matthew Burnell, Wells Fargo Securities.

MATTHEW BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Thanks for taking my question. Perhaps a bigger picture question. On your media call you were, I guess, asked a question on Brexit, and it sounds like you do have plans in place for that which certainly makes sense.

I guess given relative to your $53 billion cost target for 2018 and the fact that the negotiations seem to be starting to gear up early next year, how are you thinking about the costs in the Global Markets and Global Banking businesses from Brexit if it ends up being a harder Brexit than a softer Brexit?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Look, I think it's just too early to tell at this point. We don't know how it's all going to unfold in the UK and in Europe. We don't know what the effect is going to be on our clients on the new rules.

So as I said on the press call we've developed plans based upon various scenarios and we are going to have to wait and see how everything unfolds to know what we are going to do. But as I emphasized on that call, today we are focused on our clients. And as I alluded to, this impacts them, too.

So for now we are just working with them, providing them loans, helping them raise capital, store and move their money, manage risk. That's what we are focused on.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Just remember materiality here. So the markets business is about 20% of our expense base today.

That's the entire business. So I don't think the impact of Brexit in the overall Company, we would manage it without having any impact of any great magnitude. As it relates to the European business itself, it will have an impact if it costs us more but not to the whole Company.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Okay. And then just a quick administrative question.

You mentioned on slide 9 that the nonperforming loans in the commercial portfolio were increased by $340 million quarter over quarter. It seems like it's mostly in the energy and related space. Is that a US or are those US credits and what's your outlook for those balances going forward?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, it was to credits, one in metals and mining, one in the US. And if you look at the ratio it's at a very comfortable level.

So that doesn't concern us. If you note criticized assets were down in the quarter. That's because these two credits that went NPL were already in reservable criticized.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Vivek Juneja, JPMorgan.

VIVEK JUNEJA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, thanks for taking my question. Couple of questions.

Paul, your deposits at the Fed declined pretty sharply, almost 20% linked quarter even though you had deposit growth and given that long-term rates are still very low. Can you talk a little bit about what drove that thinking?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, we moved some cash into securities. Again, we are always managing the trade-off between liquidity capital in terms of interest rate movements and returns. And we just deployed some of that as I said in U.S. Treasury, so you can think about it going from one part of the government to the other.

We just moved them to get a little bit more yield. We feel good about that move and we will continue to optimize our cash and investment securities.

VIVEK JUNEJA: Is that saying that you don't expect rates to go up that much given that you move credit a chunk at a time and long-term rates are pretty low?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I'm not sure we're making any -- we are not projecting any view of rates . When we make that move we are just balancing liquidity capital and earnings.

It's a big portfolio. We are always looking at it to make sure that we feel good about where we are at any point in time.

VIVEK JUNEJA: One more question. Earlier you mentioned that global, in response to a question that Global Markets was doing a better job managing the balance sheet. Could you give us some more color about what specifically they are doing?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I'm not sure I really want to give much more color than that. They are doing the standard things you might do to optimize RWA, create compression, looking at returns on various assets and just optimizing.

VIVEK JUNEJA: All right. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thanks. I wanted to ask you about two strategic balance sheet decisions.

One is that there seems to be a lot more retention mortgages. So when we have these surges we are not picking up as much mortgage fees but growing mortgage loans maybe a little bit faster. That is a shift, and do you think that will hold mortgage fees down and trade-off for further net interest income down the road?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, you've got the dynamic. But the reality is as Paul was just answering the last question we continue to build cash that we need to put to work. These are our core customers, very high credit quality mortgages and pipeline has grown quarter over quarter and continues to grow and production capacity and capabilities.

So you've got it right. The technical differences instead of recognizing the upfront gain on sale of the mortgage and capitalizing the servicing you see that come through NII over time. And so and the other dynamic, remember, is the MSR asset will continue to drift down because we have less and less third-party servicing.

PAUL DONOFRIO: And, again, I want to point out we've done a lot of thinking about that. And we think maybe there's a near-term impact on earnings. But long term we think that's a better strategy for our shareholders given the risk profile of the mortgages that we are originating and putting on the balance sheet.

MARTY MOSBY: And kind of in connection with that you talked about the big question on asset sensitivity which is duration expectation on your deposits. As you've gone through this cycle, and initially we all assumed that there was going to be a lot more volume runoff than the volumes that keep going higher, have you adjusted that duration and is that part of why you are also comfortable putting on more mortgages that have that longer duration feel to it?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: In terms of the technical modeling for NII we still use the same assumptions we've used. You could have great debate in our Company whether we think those assumptions are conservative or not. But so in terms of the NII modeling we've been very consistent in terms of what, Marty, a deposit beta and what would change and how it would work.

I think the pragmatic answer is that we are 90% of our customer consumer checking accounts are core transaction accounts, the primary checking account. Those balances are touching $250 billion-plus.

They've been doubled over the last seven, eight years. Those balances are the daily cash flow of a household, and I don't think they are going to change much. But until you've got experience, a model has to look backwards as we'd say.

And so we will see what happens. But so far those of us that take the side that this will be less sensitive of one, let's just say that.

MARTY MOSBY: All right. And, lastly, just a strategic utilization of capital, if you look at your allocation of capital and returns by business segment you do a weighted average, you come up with close to an 18% return.

As profitability is getting higher that is getting further away from the overall return which is still around 10%. How do you envision trying to clean up either the capital positions or the overhang from overhead expenses that brings those two numbers maybe a little bit closer together? Thanks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So, Marty, moving expenses down, we talked about that earlier, that helps the returns. But we always have to remember that there is basically, leave aside how the allocation works, to the businesses works differently, but when you think about the 10% capital requirements for us 300 basis points or 3 percentage points of that cannot be put to use, it cannot take risk.

And so we are earning all our money on the 7%. And so when you think about the weighted average of that it comes out over 10, that means you are in a lot more on the 7 even across the whole Company. And so that's one of the difficulties.

So how do we optimize that? We make that 10% less dollar volume, if we can keep moving dollar volume down and keep increasing earnings you get that that's by all the discussion Paul had in response to earlier questions about optimizing the balance sheet or we get expenses down or we grow less risky earnings that can generate income, but it's a constant optimization. But the basic that people, that we sometimes forget is that when you think about 10% only a 30% of capital can take no risk, and so basically earns your cost of debt.

MARTY MOSBY: Got it, thanks.

OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC: Thank you and good morning. A question on your digital sales.

Obviously, you've had 18% of total sales coming through digital channels and 25% through the mobile. Can you share with us what products you are having the most success with selling through these channels and which products proved to be more challenging?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, generally you should think that the products which are more straightforward, like a card application, we build a nice auto loan execution that's unique because those things are fairly straightforward applications mortgage and things like that really take a lot more process around them. So I'd say cards and autos are the dominant part of it.

GERARD CASSIDY: Is there any target of where you can get these sales to as a percentage of total sales? Can eventually 50% of sales come through the digital channel?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think it will continue to rise in terms of dollar amount, probably rise in terms of percentage. But remember as sales grow overall in the Company, getting it to 50 means they have to win the mix race in the growth overall. But we are becoming more and more capable in delivering this, and that's why you've seen the nice growth, and so we are applying it deeply where it can really be the primary method and things like cards and autos are the easier play.

GERARD CASSIDY: And then, finally, sticking with digital, is there any application in the digital channel where you can have success like you are having in the consumer bank in the Merrill Lynch brokerage channel?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, well, Merrill Edge is, obviously, an across-the-board execution. There are clients that utilize that in Merrill and in US Trust and the broad Consumer business. So it's a broad execution and well-recognized as being one of the leaders by the various authorities.

We believe, and one of the things Terry Laughlin and Keith Banks and Andy Sieg and John and others are working on is to increase our capabilities for both the advisor and the customer in digital more or less stated in that GWIM business. So we think there's upside for us. Again, less customers, so the leverage is not quite the same, and that's why we spend a lot of our time around the consumer and there's just less leverage.

In the advisor you have to think about that business because the advisor is the core strength that we have to the customer that we have to have an execution which is universal between the advisor to the customers they can all see the same thing. And so we've got some great capabilities now in My Merrill and things like that.

But we plan to continue to enhance them and continue to integrate them so when they get the loans and deposits and things like that they are much more integrated over time. You can still see it all, but it's not where we want it to be.

GERARD CASSIDY: Great, thank you, Brian.

OPERATOR: Brian Kleinhanzl, KBW.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: Yes, thanks. I just had one quick question and it is on the $53 billion expense target.

If we got into an environment where you saw revenues come back more robustly near term, could you still commit to that $53 billion target, meaning you have enough levers to pull? Or would you see yourself switching to maybe an efficiency ratio target if all of a sudden these revenues came back stronger? Thanks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, if you remember when we made that target it was in the context of a 1.5%, 2% GDP growth economy much like we have now and a rate environment incremental from where we have now. So I think the shareholders and this management team would be happy if we were having a discussion about revenue-related incentives going up faster than that. That would be good news for the Company.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL: Thanks.

OPERATOR: It appears we have no further questions at this time I will return the floor to our presenters for closing remarks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you very much. And we look forward to speaking to you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This will conclude today's program. Thanks for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iibnk : Integrated Banks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161018ecah00105
  


 HD
 Q2  2016  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,960 words
   PD
18 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's program. (Operator Instructions). Please note this call is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Lee McEntire. Please go ahead.

   TD
LEE MCENTIRE, SVP OF IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Thanks, everybody, on the phone as well as the webcast, for joining us this morning for the second-quarter 2016 results. Hopefully everybody's had a chance to review the earnings release documents that were available on our website.

Before I turn the call over to Brian and Paul, let me remind you we may make some forward-looking statements. For further information on those, please refer to either our earnings release documents, our website or our SEC filings.

So before Brian and Paul get into the results, just let me mention one housekeeping item. Please limit your questions to one per caller so that we can get to everyone and you can circle back.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Brian Moynihan, our Chairman and CEO, for some opening comments, before Paul Donofrio, our CFO, goes through the details. Brian?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CHAIRMAN & CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Lee, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to review our second-quarter results. I'm beginning on slide 2 of the materials we sent to you.

We reported solid earnings of $4.2 billion after-tax, or $0.36 per diluted share, in what was certainly an eventful quarter for the markets from an overall macro perspective. This compares to $5.1 billion or $0.43 per share in the year ago quarter.

This quarter included negative market-related NII adjustments that cost $0.05 per share, and negative DVA that cost us another $0.01 for a total of $0.06. That compares to a $0.03 benefit to EPS for both those items in the second quarter 2015.

Earnings neutralizing for the FAS 91 DVA for both periods improved from $0.40 per share to $0.42 per share on a year-over-year basis. Our results represent another quarter of solid progress in the strategies we have been executing. Those strategies are delivering more of the Company's capabilities to each and every client we serve.

At BAC, we focus on what we can control and, despite low rates and other macro events; we continue to focus on managing our risk, our costs and our delivery of quality products and customer service.

In Q2, we grew loans $22 billion, or approximately 2.5% versus last year, even as we sold a few portfolios during the year. All this growth was organic and consistent with our risk appetite. We also grew deposits more than $66 billion or 6% over that same time period. And we did so while maintaining disciplined deposit pricing.

We also continue to transform our Company in a digital way in all things and all businesses. For example, this quarter we crossed over 20 million active mobile users and continue to increase their use of digital channels for book transactions and buying more bank products.

Active Mobile Banking customers logged into their accounts over 900 million times this quarter, depositing more than 25 million checks, or more than $20 billion via mobile check deposits. They made over 25 million mobile bill payments, up 30% year-over-year, and made nearly 80 million transfers.

Person-to-person, or P2P payments, continue to ramp up as well. While still a small component of the overall consumer payments this quarter, we had $6.7 billion in P2P payments this quarter. That is more than $13 billion year-to-date and is up 28% from last year. This channel is a value channel for all our customers and made possible by the continuing investment we make.

As we move to slide 3, we have talked to a lot of you over the last several months, including many of you on the phone today. I thought I'd try to address some of the more common questions we get from those conversations by looking at our results, by looking at the income statement and the items there in.

First, one of the core questions is what if rates stay lower for longer? Well, for bank management and for you as investors, it would be easier if rates were to rise, but that hasn't happened. So the question is, can would grow earnings without rates improving? We believe we surely can.

We can do that by continued success on things like expense management, by keeping NII stable to growing, stable and growing fees and continue to manage risk well and hold down our credit costs.

As you can see, revenue this quarter was $20.6 billion on an FTE basis. Adjusted for the negative impacts of market-related NII adjustments and DVA, that number is $21.8 billion. Adjusted for the same items in the year ago quarter, the total was comparable.

Now as we focus in on NII, Paul will take you through some of the changes this quarter later in the presentation. However, in summary, adjusted for market-related changes in both last year's second quarter and this year's second quarter, we grew NII by $400 million or 4% year-over-year. And that took place while the 10-year treasury yield fell 86 basis points from last year on a spot basis.

Going forward in a stable interest rate environment, we believe we can maintain NII around the second-quarter 2016 level based on the current loan and deposit growth we see. And if rates rise, we would expect NII to grow.

Another question relates to the Global Markets business. That question is often asked how we need to change this business, especially the FICC area, as many of our customers have. I want to hit this head on.

First of all, fixed income is a good business for us here at Bank of America. It is a business which benefits not only by its core activities but by being coupled with our massive Global Banking franchise that has leadership positions across the globe.

Combined together they generate a pretty steady $1 billion or so quarterly investment banking fees. It's also an important part of our overall Global Markets platform, the platform which sits on top of the number one global research team for the past five years.

In the second quarter, this business did well. Global Markets generated $3.7 billion in sales and trading revenue excluding DVA. Compared to the same period last year, that is up 12%. This year-over-year improvement is driven by FICC sales and trading, which is up 22%.

Now think about that, sales and trading revenue including DVA for this quarter was the highest second quarter we've experienced in five years and it led to one of the most profitable quarters for Global Markets we've seen in the past five years.

Also, the team served clients well during a period of difficult volatility, so it clearly remains a profitable important business for us to serve clients. We're proud of how the team supported their clients through the Brexit vote and the periods of volatility related thereto.

Another question is getting clarity on how we're transforming the business on the fee lines. Noninterest revenue was $11.2 billion this quarter; although modestly down from second quarter 2015, it was up nicely from the first quarter. There are a lot of items that run through the various lines of fees.

First, with regard to consumer fees, we are largely done with the big card portfolio divestitures and branch divestitures. Both those impacted both card fees and banking service charges and you can see them coming off the bottom as you look at the linked quarters. Fees now will grow with the volume of cards and accounts that are now net growing in our Company.

Our mortgage business is now sized appropriately for our franchise and the fee line there, Paul will talk about later, but will be -- is at near where it's going to be in the future.

With regard to revenue more closely tied to markets businesses, the ups and downs in volumes of activity in sales and trading, investment banking and brokerage will move back and forth through the market. But the important thing is we have strong businesses -- strong client facing businesses in these areas and we're getting our share of these revenue streams even while the market ebbs and flows.

So if we look about -- move from the fee line to the expense line, many of you give us credit for having managed expenses from $70 billion five years ago to the mid $50 billion today. But the question is can we do more? If you look at this quarter we continue to manage expenses well.

Non-interest expense this quarter was $13.5 billion, improving more than 3.5% -- 3% from 2015's second quarter. This continues a trend of performance that has shown expense declining significantly on a quarterly basis quarter after quarter over the past several years. This is the lowest level that we have reported since the fourth quarter 2008, and that's prior to the Merrill Lynch merger.

If you look at our efficiency ratio and normalize it to the NII adjustments stated above, it would be about 62% this quarter. That's an improvement of 200 basis points from last year's second quarter.

Cost control and cost-effectiveness is a focus for our management team here at Bank of America. So the question is how much more can we do on expenses? So if you think about this, let's start by looking at the cost of the most recent four quarters.

In the trailing four quarters, the total expense base was $56.3 billion. As we look out from the third quarter of 2016 through the next six quarters into 2018, we believe that with our SIM efforts and the continued work we're doing across the board in expenses, we are targeting an annual expense number of around $53 billion in total expenses for the year 2018.

So over six quarters, we continued to absorbed investment, merit increases, rising healthcare costs and bringing expenses down a nominal amount.

Our continued work in driving down costs to service delinquent loans will help with this, but the other reductions are generally coming from the core work in Simplify & Improve, work we continue to do to simplify those work processes, but also the core work we do to allow us to self fund our growth initiatives, and our continued investments in technology and salespeople.

While I'm on the topic of expenses, I want to point out another important milestone for our Company this quarter. This quarter we changed our reporting to eliminate the Legacy Assets & Servicing segment. This completes the transformation -- this segment was the last place where product orientation was reported, [not] customer orientation. And more importantly, it also reflects the last of Legacy is really behind us from an operational basis.

We added a couple slides in the appendix today to go along with our 8-K we filed a few days ago to explain the methodology of the realignment of LAS and the highlights that impact this segment where those loans and associated P&L are reported now.

But what I want to get to -- across to you is LAS was [not] as an operational segment successfully did what it was tasked to do, to clean up one of the largest mortgage servicing businesses in the US.

Consider that progress. From 1.4 million delinquent loans mortgage loans, we're down to 80,000 today. At one point we had 58,000 teammates and 20,000 contractors working on this task, and now we're down to 10,000 teammates. From one peak quarter of $3 billion plus in expenses, we're down to $600 million this quarter.

That phase of the work is complete and we need to move that operating business in with the rest of the Company to do the further consolidation and further work to improve our servicing costs. We are pleased with the accomplishments of this group, but there is still more to be done.

And that brings us to our provision. Simply put, the question we often get is, is credit deteriorating? As you can see, we remain very pleased with both consumer and commercial credit performance. Not only net charge-offs not gotten worse, but they've improved in the most recent quarter, moving back below $1 billion.

Provision expense is and will remain roughly equivalent to net charge-offs. Even in our energy portfolio we've seen lower exposures [improved] losses.

And that brings us to our returns. In this operating environment, can we get our returns above our cost of capital? Well, as you can see, we made solid progress on our returns this quarter. Our return on tangible common equity adjusted for the market-related and DVA impacts was 10.9%. On a similarly adjusted basis, ROA has moved to 90 basis points.

We still have work to do, but you can see the improvement coming through.

As we move to slide 4, you can see our business segment results. You see strong year-over-year results in every business driven by the generation of operating leverage. Consumer Banking continued its momentum around client activity and operating leverage. Consumer satisfaction continues to improve as does adoption and use of digital capabilities and functionality.

In our wealth management business, they grew earnings as costs declined more than revenue while we continue to invest in this business. Revenue was impacted by AUM valuations from market variability.

Our Global Banking team drove results with continued solid loan growth, operating leverage of 9%, and strong credit results. Global Markets executed well for its clients, as I stated earlier, in a very difficult period and used operating leverage to grow its earnings year over year as well.

So on a combined basis, those four business segments improved 16% from last year's second quarter, earning about $5 billion this quarter. Partially offsetting this was a loss in All Other and that primarily reflects the market-related NII adjustments I spoke about earlier.

You can also see the returns and efficiency ratios for each of these segments and note that each segment is earning well above our cost of capital. With that, I'm going to turn it over to Paul to take you through the numbers.

PAUL DONOFRIO, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone. Since Brian covered the income statement, I will start with the balance sheet on page 5.

As you know, when general deposit flows drive the size of our balance sheet and they, on an ending basis, were relatively flat this quarter as inflows were partially offset by outflows to fund seasonal tax payments.

So total assets were stable compared to Q1 with loans increasing modestly, security balances rising and cash down a corresponding amount. Liquidity also saw a small decline; however, we remain well compliant with LCR requirements.

Tangible common equity of $170 billion improved by $3.6 billion from Q1 driven by earnings in OCI. This was partially offset by [$1.4 billion] (corrected by company after the call) in share repurchases and roughly $500 million in common dividends.

As a reminder, following the CCAR results, we announced an increase in both our share repurchase authorization as well as a planned increase of 50% in our quarterly dividend. On a per share basis, tangible book value per share increased to $16.68, up 11% from Q2 2015.

Turning to regulatory metrics, as a reminder we report capital under the advanced approaches. Our CET1 transition ratio under Basel III ended the quarter at 10.6%. On a fully phased in basis, CET1 capital improved $4.3 billion to $161.8 billion.

Under the advanced approaches compared to Q1 2016, the CET1 ratio increased 37 basis points to 10.5% and is above our current 2019 requirement. Our [risk-weighted assets] (corrected by company after the call) declined roughly $13 billion driven by reductions related to retail exposures, primarily from credit improvement.

We also provide our capital metrics under the standardized approach. Here our CET1 ratio improved to 11.4%. Supplementary leverage ratio for both parent and Bank continue to exceed US regulatory minimums that took effect in 2018.

Turning to slide 6 and on an average basis, total loans were up $7 billion from Q1 and $23 billion or 3% from Q2 2015. On an ending period basis, loan growth this quarter was impacted by pay downs near the end of the quarter in the non-US corporate loan facilities and about $1.6 billion in FX translations across international loans including UK card.

Note on the slide there is a breakdown of the loans in our business segments and All Other. Again on an average basis year-over-year, loans in All Other were down $42 billion driven by continued run off of first and second lien mortgages, while loans in our business segments were up $65 billion or 9%.

In Consumer Banking, we continue to see strong growth in consumer real estate and vehicle lending offset somewhat by runoff in home equity outpacing originations. In Wealth Management, we saw growth in consumer real estate and structured lending.

Global Banking loans were up $35 billion or 12% year-over-year and up 7% annualized from Q1. Deposits were stable with Q1 at $1.2 trillion but grew $67 billion or 6% from Q2 2015.

Broad-based growth was led by Consumer increasing more than $44 billion or 8% year-over-year, while Wealth Management deposits rose 6% and deposits with corporate clients and Global Banking improved nearly 4%.

Turning to asset quality on slide 7, we saw improvement from Q1. Total net charge-offs improved $83 million from Q1 to less than $1 billion in Q2. Consumer losses declined modestly across a number of products and while slight commercial losses also declined from Q1 as a result of lower energy losses. Provision of $976 million in Q2 was down $21 million from Q1.

Finally, we had a small overall net reserve release in the quarter as consumer releases were modestly offset by builds in commercial.

On slide 8, we provide credit quality data on our Consumer portfolio. Net charge-offs declined $68 million from Q1. While driven by the real estate losses, the improvement, as I mentioned, was broad-based.

Over half of the losses in this book are US credit card with a loss rate improved 5 basis points from Q1 to 2.66%. Delinquency levels and NPLs improved and reserve coverage remains strong.

Moving to the commercial credits on slide 9, net charge-offs improved $15 million from Q1 as energy losses declined. Energy charge-offs decreased $23 million from Q1 to $79 million this quarter.

There isn't a lot of new news on the commercial asset quality front other than the modest improvement in our energy-related exposure. As you all know, the price of oil and gas was more stable in Q2.

Within this backdrop, we experienced some improvement in both energy losses and exposure. A few clients refinanced with equity issuances and other financing solutions which also helped improve exposures.

Overall, ever committed energy exposure declined $3 billion from Q1 with utilized exposure declining more modestly and exposure to exploration production as well as oilfield services, which we believe are the two higher risk subsectors, declined 1% from Q1.

Outside of energy, commercial asset quality continues to perform well. Let me share with you a few metrics that exhibit the quality of this book and its performance.

The reservable criticized exposure ratio is 3.8% and, excluding energy, metals and mining, exposure is 2.4%, which is near prerecession levels.

The commercial net charge-off ratio, excluding small business, has been below 15 basis points for 14 consecutive quarters, even with the elevated levels of energy charge-offs we experienced over the past three quarters.

The NPL ratio, which today is at 37 basis points, has been below 40 basis points for 11 consecutive quarters.

Turning to slide 10, net interest income on a reported non-FTE basis was $9.2 billion. Included in NII this quarter was a negative $974 million market-related adjustment to true up (inaudible) premium amortization. This follows Q1's more negative adjustment of $1.2 billion and it's important to note that the adjustment in Q2 2015 was a benefit of $669 million.

NII on an FTE basis, excluding market-related adjustments, was $10.4 billion. This was lower than Q1 primarily due to lower long-end rates and Q1's seasonal impacts. Compared to Q2 2015, results were up nearly $400 million or 4% as higher [shorten] rates, combined with loan growth funded by deposits, offset the negative impact of lower long-end rates.

Looking forward to Q3, we will benefit from an extra day which will be offset by the impact of declines in long-end rates over the past two quarters and put pressure on our MBS bond yields and reinvestment yields more generally.

As we get into Q4 and the next year, we get more optimistic about NII, assuming both the current forward curve and the current pace of loan and deposit growth.

With respect to asset sensitivity, as of 6/30, an instantaneous 100 basis point parallel increase in rates is estimated to increase NII by $7.5 billion over the subsequent 12 months, driven by the increase in long-end rates.

Now we think it's also important to understand what we expect to happen to NII if rates don't rise. Referring to the bottom left of the slide; the adjusted NII has been fairly stable averaging between $10.3 billion and $10.4 billion over the past five quarters.

If we have stability in long-end rates, we would expect to maintain that level in the near-term, again assuming modest loan and deposit growth. Rates moving up or down from here would obviously impact that perspective slightly in the near-term, but building as we extend that scenario into future quarters and years.

Turning to slide 11, noninterest expense was $13.5 billion in the quarter. That is $0.5 billion or 3% lower than Q2 2015, driven by good expense discipline across the Company.

As you can see, we are presenting expenses a little bit differently now that we have eliminated the LAS segment. Having said that, we made steady progress on reducing legacy loan servicing costs this quarter and we still expect to achieve our original goal of lowering the former LAS segment costs, ex-litigation, to $500 million in Q4.

Q2 litigation expense was $270 million, which was higher by $95 million in Q1 2015. So year-over-year, expense improvement, ex-litigation was actually $600 million.

Nearly every category of cost was lower year-over-year. It was led by personnel, including the expiration of the fully amortized advisor awards, and the revenue-related incentive mostly in Wealth Management. While the rest of the improvement I would characterize as just good hard work, grinding expenses lower through SIM and other initiatives.

While the rate of decline has been slowing, our employee base is down 3% from Q2 2015. As the employee base continues to grind lower, we think it's important to point out that the reductions on a percentage basis now include more highly paid managerial associates.

So while the rate of FTE reduction has slowed, the relationship to expense reductions is not linear. Also, we continue to increase the number of client facing associates to drive growth, while at the same time, through SIM and other efforts, simplify and streamline activities and thereby reduce non-client facing positions.

Lastly, as I said last quarter, we expect our quarterly FDIC expense to increase approximately $100 million for a number of quarters, starting in Q3 2016.

Turning to the business segments and starting with Consumer Banking on slide 12, Consumer earned $1.7 billion, continuing its trend of solid improvement and reporting a robust 20% return on allocated capital.

Revenue and earnings were driven by deposit and loan growth, coupled with continued expense improvement, driving operating leverage. As a result of this operating leverage, the efficiency ratio improved roughly 360 basis points year-over-year.

Note that the lack of reserve releases this quarter versus a meaningful release last year mitigated some of the improvement in operating leverage. So while earnings were up 3% year-over-year, pre-tax pre-provision earnings rose 11%.

On slide 13 we focus on additional key Consumer Banking trends. First in the upper left, the stats are a reminder of our strong competitive position. Revenue increased by $107 million as NII growth more than offset lower noninterest income.

Net interest income continued to improve as we drove deposits and loans higher. Noninterest income was down due mostly to lower mortgage banking income. This decline is in part a result of selling fewer loans and instead holding more on our balance sheet thereby shifting mortgage banking income to NII.

Expense declined 5% from Q2 2015. The positive expense trend is a result of a number of initiatives. As an example, I would note that our growth in Mobile Banking continues to play an important role in helping us optimize our delivery network while improving customer satisfaction. Our cost of deposits as a percent of average deposits also continued to improve and now stands at 162 basis points.

Focusing on client balances on the bottom of the page, Merrill Edge brokerage assets at $132 billion are up 8% versus Q2 2015 on strong account flows partially offset by lower market valuations. We increased the number of Merrill Edge customers by 10% from Q2 2015. We now have more than 1.6 million households using our platform for self-directed trading.

Moving across the bottom right of the page, note that loans are up 5% from Q2 2015 on strong mortgage and vehicle lending growth. Average vehicle loans are up 20% from Q2 2015 with average book FICO scores remaining well above the 770 level and net losses remaining below 30 basis points and improving on a linked quarter basis.

Mortgage loan growth was aided by solid mortgage production of $16 billion, up modestly from Q2 2015, as customers took advantage of historically low interest rates.

On consumer card -- or I should say on US consumer card, we issued more than 1.3 million cards in the quarter which is the highest level since 2008. Average balances were modestly down. However, adjusting for divestitures, average card balances grew $1.4 billion compared to Q2 2015. Spending on credit cards adjusted for divestitures was up 7.5% compared to Q2 2015.

As we viewed in previous quarters, we continue to focus on originating high FICO loans which generally produce low loss rates and strong risk-adjusted margins.

Last quarter we highlighted the quality of our underwriting in the Consumer business. This quarter, we are highlighting our leading position in digital banking. This technology continues to reshape how our customers bank.

Importantly, as adoption rises, particularly around transaction processing and self-service, we see improved efficiency and customer satisfaction. We added more than 2.5 million new mobile customers in the past 12 months. With more than 20 million active users, deposits from mobile devices now represent 17% of deposit transactions.

Mobile customers, on average, process 280,000 deposits per day, an increase of 28% year-over-year and the equivalent to volume of 800 financial centers. Mobile sales are up nearly 50% from last year. We are promoting mobile sales and electronic adoption by deploying digital ambassadors in our financial centers.

We now have more than 3,500 digital ambassadors in our branches engaging with customers who come into the branch to transact. They educate these customers on alternatives to branch banking which are not only more convenient for them but also more efficient for us. Digital sales, appointments and satisfaction all continue to achieve new highs.

Also, as you know, we are a leader in person-to-person and person-to-business money movement through digital transfers and bill payment capabilities. The adoption and popularity of these capabilities continues to drive growth with record volume of $246 billion this quarter, up nearly 5% year-over-year.

Turning to slide 15, Global Wealth & Investment Management produced earnings of $722 million, up 8% from Q2 2015. Year-over-year, revenue was down modestly but expenses were down even more, improving pretax margin to 26%, up meaningfully from Q2 2015.

This quarter included a modest gain from the previously announced sale of Bank of America Global Capital Management. This reduced AUM comprised of short-term liquid assets by approximately $80 billion. Overall, revenue declined 2% from Q2 2015 as strong NII growth and the gain were more than offset by lower market sensitive revenue.

Asset management revenues decline from Q2 2015 on lower market values while improving modestly on a linked quarter basis. Transactional revenue was down and continues to be impacted by market uncertainty as well is the migration of activity from brokerage to managed relationships. NII benefited from solid deposit and loan growth.

Noninterest expense declined nearly $200 million or 6% from Q2 2015 with half of that benefit derived from the expiration of the amortization of advisor retention awards that were put in place at the time of the Merrill Lynch merger. The rest of the improvement was a result of lower revenue-related incentives and other support costs.

Moving to slide 16, despite volatile markets, we continue to see overall solid client engagement. Client balances at $2.4 trillion were down from Q1 but, excluding the sale I mentioned earlier, were up from Q1 as higher market valuation levels, $10 billion of long-term AUM flows and loan growth more than offset tax-related deposit outflows.

Driven by the expected seasonality, average deposits were down from Q1 as clients paid income taxes. Importantly, average deposits are up 6% from Q2 2015 driven by growth in the second half of 2015.

Average loans also grew this quarter. Growth was concentrated in consumer real estate and structured lending as well.

Turning to slide 17, Global Banking earned $1.5 billion producing solid improvement over both Q1 and year-over-year. Returns on allocated capital was 16%, a 200 basis point improvement from Q2 2015, despite adding $2 billion in allocated capital.

Double-digit percent revenue growth year-over-year offset a low-single-digit expense growth creating strong operating leverage that improved the efficiency ratio to 45%. Global Banking continues to drive solid loan growth within its risk and client frameworks producing solid year-over-year improvement in NII.

Revenue benefited this quarter from mark-to-market gains on our [FEO] loan portfolio due to recovery in certain energy and mining exposures. Higher treasury fees and leasing gains also aided the improvement from Q2 2015. While total investment banking fees for the Firm were down from Q2 2015, Global Banking gained a little share supported by M&A fees which were up on an absolute basis.

A modest increase in noninterest expense compared to Q2 2015 reflects the cost of adding sales professionals over the past 12 months, and a modest increase in incentive related due to the higher revenue.

Looking at trends on page 18, and comparing Q2 last year, clients were confronted with increased volatility once again this quarter with concerns around both global growth as well as the outcome of the UK referendum.

However, despite concerns, companies still need to finance as well as store their -- move their money and this is when the strength and diversity of our franchise is most appreciated by our clients.

Average loans on a year-over-year basis grew $35 billion or 12%. Growth was broad-based across large corporates as well as middle-market borrowers and spread across most products.

Having said that, we slowed our construction led commercial real estate lending a few quarters ago. Average deposits increased from Q2 2015 up $11 billion or 4% from both new and existing clients.

Switching to Global Markets on slide 19. The past couple of quarters are great examples of the importance of this segment to not only its clients around the world, but also to our customers and clients in all our business segments.

Customers and clients were able to live their financial lives better in Q2 because Global Markets delivered for them under challenging market conditions helping them raise capital, buy and sell securities as well as manage risk.

We believe we increased our relevance with clients during Q2 and, more specifically, during the market volatility after the UK referendum. We did this by showing them that we will be there for them when they need us most.

That we are there for them with consistent set of products and services at terms that makes sense for our clients and our shareholders. And there for them with thoughtful advice as well as the capabilities, strength and confidence to make markets and execute.

All of this results in Global Markets reporting earnings of $1.1 billion and a return on capital of 12% -- 13% excluding net DVA impact.

Revenue was up appreciably year-over-year as well as linked quarter. Total revenue, excluding DVA, was up 8% year-over-year on solid sales and trading results and up 18% over a Q1 that saw challenging market conditions. strong expense management drove expenses 6% lower year-over-year even while revenue was higher.

Moving to trends on the next slide and focusing on the components of our sales and trading performance, sales and trading revenue of $3.7 billion excluding net DVA was up 12% from Q2 2015 driven by FICC.

In terms of revenue, this was the best second quarter we have had in the past five years. Excluding DVA and versus Q2 2015, FICC sales and trading of $2.6 billion increased 22% as the improvement which begun in late Q1 continued through Q2 as global concerns abated and central banks took further monetary policy actions.

Improvement was across both macro and Credit Products driven by stronger rates in currency, client activity as well as improved credit market conditions.

Tighter spreads benefited mortgage trading and municipal bonds outperformed treasuries with strong retail demand. Equity sales and trading was $1.1 billion, declining 8% versus Q2 2015 which saw significant client activity in Asia driven by stock market rallies in the region.

On slide 21, we show All Other which reported a loss of $815 million. This loss was driven by the current quarter's $974 million market-related NII adjustment. The loss is lower than Q1 due to both a lower market-related NII adjustment as well as the absence of retirement eligible incentive costs.

Compared to Q2 2015, the difference is driven by a number of factors. First, the negative NII market-related adjustment in this quarter versus a large positive adjustment in Q2 2015. Second, we had reps and warranty recoveries in Q2 2015 related to a court ruling and gains on the sale of consumer real estate loans. Third, provision expense declined from Q2 2015 driven by continued portfolio improvement.

The effective tax rate for the quarter was about 29%, which is in line with what we expect for the remainder of the year absent any unusual items.

And, as a reminder, we still expect to record a tax charge of about $350 million, most likely in 3Q, that reduces the carrying value of our UK DTAs as a result of UK tax reform announced last year. The vast majority of this charge will not impact regulatory capital.

Okay, so let me offer a few takeaways as I finish. Q2 was another quarter of solid progress in a challenging global environment. While growth concerns persist in many countries, the US economy continues to steadily improve, albeit at a less than optimum pace.

The diversity and strength of our franchise makes us more relevant to clients and customers during times such as these and you can see that in our results.

Clearly interest rates affected our financial performance this quarter. Still, while we cannot control interest rates, we are not waiting for them to rise. We grew in this environment by focusing on the things that we can control and drive. We grew deposits, we grew loans, we managed risk well reflected in reduced charge-offs.

We delivered for customer clients in another challenging quarter, especially around the UK referendum. We invested in our future by adding sales professionals and continuing to deploy technology that improves customer satisfaction.

We returned capital to shareholders and we announced plans to return increasing amounts. And we did all of this while we lowered expenses and drove operating leverage. Thank you. With that, let's open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. I had a few follow-ups on the expense commentary. I guess first, though, just maybe what drove the timing of -- given a three-year expense outlook, is it acknowledging lower for longer rates? Is it finding more opportunities? Or what was the motivation to give expense outlook for 2018 at this point?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, Matt, as we looked at it, this is our current plan, so there's no new news for us in terms of how we operate the Company. But what we saw is that people were not getting the expenses right in the out years thinking that we could not continue the rate of investment and continue to bring down expenses.

Secondly, to make sure people understood it in terms of blending in LAS and putting it into the base, it's now become less of the contribution; now it's more the general expense base we're working on.

So, I think it was consistent with the way we were running the Company, but we wanted to make sure people had clarity over the next six quarters and going into 2018 of where we think the expense base goes versus what we saw in some of your guy's estimates and stuff.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, and then I guess specifically, the $53 billion that you pointed to, does that include the first-quarter stock expense of around $1 billion and some, I assume, nominal amount for legal?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, it includes an estimate based on current views of both. That's all in expenses for the year. Now they come in different quarters.

You just pointed out we have a frontloaded of that, but -- so this quarter did not include that -- think about it as $0.25 billion, plus [a quarter] when you think about the $13.5 billion this quarter. But overall, it includes the estimate for that out there plus the litigation estimate.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, and just separately if I can ask, we've had a couple other banks talk about loosening standards a bit on the consumer side. I feel like you've held your standards quite high especially in credit card.

But just any thoughts on appetite for loosening standards a little bit here given the challenging rate environment and the economy is still hanging in there?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Look, we've worked, I think, extraordinarily hard to transform the Company, its balance sheet, its ability to produce earnings. We've got a customer and risk framework on the Consumer side that is focused on prime and super prime. That strategy, I think, works for our shareholders and our customers and we're sticking to it.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And just to give you a simple view of that, Matt, this quarter we did the highest number of new credit card originations we've done for a long time and all of them are consistent with that risk appetite. So there's plenty of market share to gain there by just concentrating on current customers and deepening.

And while people always ask the question you asked, the answer is there still about 7 out of 10 mortgage customers at Bank of America get their mortgage somewhere else that fit within our credit customers.

There is plenty of cardholders that fit our credit parameters that are out there that don't have our card or aren't using our card as their primary card. And so, just giving those couple of examples, there's plenty of market share to get there so we don't need to change the standards to grow, and you've seen that come through.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hey, good morning. Maybe I could follow up a little bit on the NII discussion. Maybe if you could help us think through -- you talked about near-term kind of flattish, but as we think a little bit longer-term, if the forward curve is realized and/or maybe give some color -- you've had good deposit growth, core loan growth of 9%, but net loan growth has only been about 2.5%.

Do we start to see that inflect more? And does that start to help the out years as well? So, just any color on NII beyond the next quarter or two would be helpful.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure, look, as I said in my comments, if rates follow the current path of the forward curve, we would expect, with the extra day and the decline in long-term rates, to be at around the $10.4 billion range in the next quarter.

So -- but as you get out to 4Q and next year, I think we get more optimistic about being able to grow. Given just our current pace of deposit and loan growth, we're obviously experiencing good deposit growth.

We've got, as we talked about, a strong risk and client framework, so we'd like to put all of that deposit growth into loan growth, but we're going to only do so if it meets our criteria. Whatever deposit growth doesn't get absorbed by good loans with our clients obviously goes into the investment portfolio and we get a return there.

So, I think -- look, it's just a question of the further you get out the more that wave of deposits and asset growth kind of overwhelms the change in interest rates and we see growth.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Also, if you look at page 6, you'll see -- you can see that the point you made is that the inflection point was hit a few quarters ago where the noncore loans and leases were running down and not being made up by growth.

We passed that and so as we think about it going forward in the upper right-hand part of page 6 you can see that other loan leases balance is coming down. They'll continue to come down, but there's just less of them.

And then if you look at the lower left you see the core loans are growing at a good rate -- have been growing at a good rate, now can come through.

So I think your point about what gives us encouragement because you saw last year's second quarter, this year's second quarter, about how even in a lower for longer rate environment we can grow NII is that you actually are growing the net loan book pretty consistently now each quarter.

JIM MITCHELL: So if -- I guess you don't want to put too many numbers around it, but should we think that maybe starting in 4Q or 1Q we might start to see some incremental NII growth and maybe that accelerates, as you point out, the loan growth overwhelms the rate picture?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we'd say that you've got to be careful about your rate scenario even on a spot basis because it can move around and move that around. But if you think about it as second quarter next year you'd start to see this breakthrough again based on absolutely no change in rates from the low point they were.

JIM MITCHELL: Right. Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Hey, good morning, guys. Just one, on the fee side you mentioned all the great metrics in terms of the growth of activity and account growth and whatnot, but we're continuing to see declines year-over-year in card income, service charges and the brokerage business.

So, I was wondering if you can walk us through when you anticipate some of the building blocks turning into revenue. Or are there still some of the spending or competitive pressures building in underneath? So just the outlook for some of those core consumer and brokerage-related fee areas would be great. Thanks.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Okay. Well, let's start with card. I think card actually is up on a linked quarter basis, down year-over-year, but you have to remember, again, we had portfolio divestitures. So I think we're at the point now where we're not going to be seeing those sorts of divestitures in the future and we start feeling better about more consistent growth around card.

If you look at brokerage income, we've been in a multi-quarter trend of people shifting from brokerage to more managed accounts. That trend has obviously put pressure on the revenue line because at the same time that was going on we had a lot of volatility in the marketplace, lower overall capital markets, lower overall activity.

But I think over time as -- if capital markets continue to rise, we will get -- we will offset the decline in transactional revenue.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: A quick two parter on Wealth Management. One, I wanted to see if you saw any difference, post the retention lock-ups of a few months back in terms of [FA] attrition? And then the second part is in wealth management. What specifically -- product or behavioral changes are you putting in place ahead of the DoL rules kicking in in April?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So on the first question; we haven't seen any change in attrition after retention. And most of the retention -- most of the attrition of experienced financial advisors have been more due to our change in the way we do the international business which has been going on for about a year. But in terms of aggregate numbers, it's been relatively stable.

In terms of -- and the attrition we see is actually in the lower production levels, mainly due to people not being able to build a book of business and we're trying to fix that through the integrated business system with our consumer and preferred teams.

In terms of department -- DoJ and the fiduciary standard, we're busily implementing this. It's consistent with where we're going with the business. It's consistent with the move from an old view of what Financial Advisory was versus a managed money fee-based loaded with a financial planning driven business.

Admittedly, it's a little tricky because the actual rules only apply to the $200 billion-odd of 401(k) in retirement assets we have, but it's consistent with where we've taken the business and the teams [drawing] it. We don't see meaningful revenue or changes due to that. We will see meaningful changes to implement it, but not meaningful revenue changes.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, appreciate that. And just a follow-up on the 2018 expense target which everyone appreciates. It might be a silly question, but should we -- is it safe to assume that 2017 will be somewhere between 2016 actual and 2018's target?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, we've got -- yes, it's a safe assumption. It's not a silly question, but you've got six quarters between now and then and you can see what we are running at it now to get it down to that level. We'll take work every quarter.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Thanks, Brian.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Hi, good morning. So I hate to beat a dead horse on the expense question, but Brian or Paul, I was hoping you could provide some more detail as to what specific expense leverage you can pull to really drive that figure to $53 billion.

It is a pretty meaningful delta versus the $56 billion run rate over the last four quarters. I'm just trying to gauge how those expense initiatives might impact revenues and whether we should expect any revenue attrition as those additional initiatives take hold?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. So let me just back up a little bit -- I will definitely answer your question, but I want to emphasize again we're talking about LTM $56 billion going to $53 billion and absorbing in that merit, healthcare, inflation and other investment.

And the first thing I would point out as you think about the credibility of that -- look at what we accomplished over the last five years. From Q2 2011 to Q2 2016, we reduced quarterly expenses by $4.8 billion; that's a $19 billion annualized run rate.

And we did this by not only reducing legacy mortgage-related expenses, which were only -- make up about $2 billion of that $4.8 billion, but just through good expense management in every major category across the Company.

So, from here it's about -- a number of things -- a lot of those things are been identified through our Simplify & Improve initiative. We're investing in technology and capabilities to improve efficiency. The most obvious example of that you can see is in the increasing adoption of customers for digital channels.

But I do want to emphasize that it is about making progress across the entire Company, from our leaders and our teams. So if you look in Consumer, there are examples -- the digital adoption, we've got mobile users up 15% to over (technical difficulty). When they make a deposit that's 1/10 the cost.

We've got digital sales up 12% year-over-year. We've got more customers using digital statements, a lot more work to do there as we transition from paper to electronic. We are optimizing the coverage model in both consumer and GUM and they all have goals. We all have goals and initiatives around controllable expenses, including travel, supplies, support costs.

If you look at Global Banking and Global Markets, we're simplifying our legal entities structure and business model. We're integrating wholesale credit origination and processing across the lines of businesses. We're centralizing data platforms. We're expanding electronic capabilities and we're optimizing the coverage model. So there's a lot going on and we're going to need all of it to get to our goals.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Got it. Okay. So, Paul, based on your comments it sounds like it's really going to be driven by technology and other efficiency initiatives. So there shouldn't be any expectation that we could see any meaningful revenue drop off or attrition in light of those actions that you are taking?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think -- yes, Paul gave you a lot of different places it comes from, but I think you've got to back up and say it comes from reducing the expense base and -- by people -- and you can see that even in markets year-over-year we're down 7% and people where revenue went up.

So, it's electronification to the fixed income platform and the equities platform continuing down that road. So every single area is moving here.

And then you also have to think about the stability of the platform. This Company has now been operating with a consistent strategy and a consistent ability to execute for many years. And what's gone with the legacy and stuff, that just allows us to keep operating on ourselves.

And we always have performed best in history when we had that period of time, no acquisitions, no divestitures, no legacy asset servicing. So we're very confident that it will happen.

On revenue, I'd say look at it year-over-year, look at it linked quarter. So last three or four quarters you've seen revenue stable and -- well, it bounces around with market activity in a given quarter. The core revenue continues to go forward and the expenses keep coming down on a core basis.

So we're comfortable that there is nothing -- we won't allow our people under our responsible growth to give us cost saves and not grow the business. So it has to be sustainable. It has to be actually taking out real work and yet still investing in more client facing teammates, more salespeople and more technology capabilities for customers.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thanks. Just a couple of questions on auto and then one clarification on the OpEx guidance. I'm sorry to come back to that, but on the OpEx, is it -- is the 2018 figure where you expect to begin 2018 or end 2018?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's for the full year.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: For the full year? On auto, you underscored the origination quality and the high end of the FICO range, but one of the things that we are hearing from dealers is about the compression in pricing that's occurring in the high end ranges.

Some other lenders move up out of the mid-FICO range and I wanted to see if that's something that you think you're experiencing or if you're in fact seeing some stabilization in the competitive area around high FICO auto lending?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I would say we haven't experienced that. We can check and get back to you. I would just make a couple more comments about auto. We are maintaining our share but we are very focused on the prime and super prime.

And as we pointed out last quarter, we are booking these loans at FICO scores of around 774 and we've got debt to income at all time lows. And importantly, we are not, from restructuring standpoint, extending tender the way we see in the marketplace.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, still more on expenses. This might be good news/bad news. I guess the good news is your expenses over the last year, branches are down 2%, FTE down 3%, almost every expense line is lower, so that's good, and for efficiency ratio is down to 62%.

But the bad news the way I look at it is over the last five years your expenses are down a lot but your core revenues are down even more. So what might resolve at least the issue in my mind? Do you have a specific efficiency target for 2018?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, Mike, the -- if you look at the risk-adjusted revenue, you would come to a different conclusion. So yes, we had a lot of revenue in 2011 or 2012, but the charge-offs were running tens of billions dollars more a year than we have now. So, a lot of that revenue is just going off the backend.

So, if you look at it from a risk-adjusted base, I think we grew from the low 60[%]s to the low 80[%]s over the last five or six years. So that is actually the work that gets done.

So we could -- going back to point, we focus on very high credit quality, so we keep that credit cost moving in the right direction or stable when the world has gone a different way.

We don't have a target efficiency ratio. You can calculate one of that out in 2018, because, as we talked about earlier, the NII differences will be driven by where rates go to some degree.

But the idea is we are going to take expenses from $56 billion in the last four quarters to $53 billion. We think that's where we'll get them to. And if rates stay stable or go up a little bit, you'll see a lower efficiency ratio. Right now we're running about 62% this quarter, fairly stated, and we think we can push it down from there.

MIKE MAYO: And I don't want to take away -- I think we collectively appreciate having a 2018 expense target. But if you just take the second quarter annualized, you are at $54 billion. And then if you reduce your LAS expenses you get down to a $53 billion number. So is this (multiple speakers)?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Mike, you're missing the FAS 123 in Social Security which is $1.2 billion in the first quarter that doesn't occur this quarter, but will -- you've got to add that back, too.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, well that's helpful. And you said a lot is going on and I think some other analysts tried to restate what you're saying. But what are the three biggest drivers then of that reduction and what you might term a core expense base?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's been people -- we're down 2,600 people quarter over quarter; it's a constant reduction in personnel through hard work and automation, while we're continuing to increase the investment in salespeople. And so that helps on the revenue side and the revenue equation versus expense.

It's things like our data center configuration. We've been in a program, take about $1 billion, $1.5 billion out of all the data work, all the data centers and configuration that we're partway through.

And in part, just -- like Paul said, every line item is just grinding that -- as we continue to bring down people, we have less occupancy, less telecommunications and everything else, so it really comes across-the-board.

MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, should we expect a restructuring charge or do you pay as you go?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have consistently paid as we've gone, as you well know, and even in every quarter we have between $50 million and $100 million of severance expense that we don't even talk about.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Vivek Juneja, JPMorgan.

VIVEK JUNEJA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi. I won't beat the dead horse on expenses. Just a quick question on the card business. If I look at purchase volumes year on year, it slowed further from last quarter. Any color on what's going on there?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, I think purchase volumes are up 7% if you normalize for the divestitures.

VIVEK JUNEJA: Okay, but the divestiture happened in 4Q; it slowed from where it was. It was up 2% year on year in the first quarter and it slowed to 1% year-on-year in the second quarter. So it seems to me a little bit of a weakening trend.

PAUL DONOFRIO: I think we've had divestitures in 2Q last year and in the fourth quarter.

VIVEK JUNEJA: I know, I am -- in fact, those were both reflected in 1Q 2016 year-on-year growth rates and I'm comparing (multiple speakers) --.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Vivek, let me just -- let me make it simple for you. The year to date through July is up -- taking divestitures up about 4% on debit and credit both and up 7% in credit card purchases, normalized for divestitures year-to-year -- the first six months plus this part of July, so it's growing fine.

VIVEK JUNEJA: Okay. Got it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR & Company.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. On the LAS, so you now consolidate the LAS segment into pretty much the Consumer segment. You still -- last on the appendix you said you had about 11,000 workers in that area -- I guess continuing to work through about 88,000 loans.

Should that number continue to move down? Will we continue to see that move down or what's the thoughts behind that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Be careful because those 10,000 people work on the 88,000 loans plus the 3 million good loans. They service both good and not good loans, to make it simple. And so, that's one of the reasons why we're separating.

And in All Other going forward is loans that we are actually only -- loans we'd never do again and that we're running off 600,000, 700,000 units. Moved into the segments whether it's Consumer, US Trust or Merrill Lynch are the loans that relate to their businesses in terms of servicing costs, too.

So, that was one of the confusions, as this thing got down you got to the point where the good servicing costs are becoming a more meaningful part of the total. And they'll continue on because that portfolio, whether it's direct servicing costs for third parties or even the stuff on our balance sheet, will continue.

But to give you a sense, from first quarter to second quarter, when we were down -- the total headcount of about 2,600, about 900 and change came from LAS, from the servicing side. So it still contributes but it's contribution is going down each quarter because the amount left to service the good stuff and just generally service our portfolio will be a higher percentage of what's left.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, and then you gave some guidance on where you think LAS expenses will be by the fourth quarter. And I'm not sure I wrote it down correctly and I might have misinterpreted it. But was it close to $500 million, you said, or am I off somewhere?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, so this quarter we ran about $600 million and we said we would get -- a long time ago we said it would get to $500 million by the fourth quarter this year, so we're almost there, and the idea is that that will be completed.

PAUL MILLER: So, is $500 million the run rate to service the good loans? I'm confused. Or is that still servicing the bad loans?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Both.

PAUL MILLER: Both? Okay. Thank you very much, guys.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Sorry to come back here, but I just hate horses, so I'm going to take another whack at this thing. On expenses, what should we think about as far as your assumptions for legal and then some of your market-related businesses, market sensitive businesses? GWIM end markets? Just because the expense line items in those businesses do have a pretty big impact from market conditions.

PAUL DONOFRIO: I'll start with legal. From a legal perspective, if you look over the last four, five, six, seven quarters we've been running around $300 million per quarter. We did $270 million this quarter. That I feel like is a reasonable range if you're building a model for the near-term.

In terms of the capital markets businesses, not quite sure I get your question. Obviously, they are -- that line is tied to the performance of the business.

The total performance of the business, returns, earnings and revenue and we have programs in place that we think are competitive with what's on Wall Street, so that we can attract the best of talent and retain the best of talent.

We're constantly benchmarking against those programs and we feel like we're where we should be for the quality and the market presence we have in those areas.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: So overall (multiple speakers) --.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So you should think of the environment we're talking about as an environment consistent where we are now from growth of 1.5%, 2% of US GDP and stuff. So it doesn't contemplate any change to the current environment from just a general operating principle.

PAUL DONOFRIO: And again, remember what I think Brian said and what I emphasized again, that $53 billion is absorbing increases in merit, absorbing increases in healthcare, investment that are just -- inflation that are just natural in the business.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Right. I guess I was just -- so you're saying that first of all on legal, the $53 billion includes a roughly $300 million per quarter rate, and that your operating assumption for the GWIM and other market business would assume a revenue inflation and corresponding payout inflation from those businesses from here?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, based upon our current plan.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Got it.

PAUL DONOFRIO: What's in our current plan. And in terms of legal, I hope it's going to be less than $300 million When we get out there. I'm not telling you to stick that in your model, but that's a good range to be thinking about.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, that's really helpful. Thank you. And then one quick follow-up on GWIM. You guys highlighted a gain on sale, but could you talk about how much that impacted the margins in that business and then whether or not there was any EPS tailwind there?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, it was $80 billion of AUM again. That was all short-term. It had a minimal impact on margins. Minimal.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Matthew Burnell, Wells Fargo Securities.

MATTHEW BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Paul, I wanted to follow-up on the mortgage banking side of things. That was one of the areas you highlighted in terms of potential growth. Year-over-year, the mortgage banking revenue was down fairly substantially. It seems like a lot of that was hedging gains and losses and things like that.

But you also mentioned that you're planning on keeping more mortgages that you originate on the balance sheet. Could you give us a little more color in terms of how you are thinking about that going forward both in terms of the mortgage originations being kept on the balance sheet and how you are thinking about mortgage banking fees?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. Let me -- you're right. The MBI line was down year-over-year; that was planned for. We knew that was coming. I just want to walk -- so for everybody else -- I just want to walk through why it's down and then we can talk a little bit about going forward.

So four items. First, we sold an appraisal business last year, so there was revenue in last year's second quarter that isn't in this quarter. Second, we had some servicing sales in the second quarter of last year for a game that we didn't have this quarter. Third and probably most significant from a revenue perspective is that we had the Ace decision in the second quarter last year. So we released last year some reps and warranties and that was a significant amount of benefit last year.

And then fourth, and probably strategically most important and the point you're getting too, is we are selling less mortgages, choosing instead to hold them on our balance sheet. And, obviously, this decreases MBI but increases NII over time.

So -- plus you have to note that, as we just talked about, servicing -- bad servicing is going to continue to run off. So if servicing is running off and not being replaced as fast, if we're holding more mortgages on the balance sheet as we transition from MBI to NII, you could see that line continues to trend lower.

In terms of the mortgages, I think in the short-term it's going to be fairly stable and that trend is going to -- it's a good base this quarter. It was a good base to start from.

I think that trend lower is going to be in some quarters very slow because, as you point out, other line items are a little bit messy and bounce around there depending on what happens in interest rates, but that's the trend.

In terms of what we're trying to accomplish, all of the loans we originate that are nonconforming, we would like to keep on our balance sheet. And even the conforming loans that have a certain characteristic we're going to be holding on our balance sheet. So right now let's around 75%-ish of the loans we're originating are going on our balance sheet. Is that helpful?

MATTHEW BURNELL: Yes, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Richard Bove, Rafferty Capital.

RICHARD BOVE, ANALYST, RAFFERTY CAPITAL: Hi. I apologize for going back to the net interest income issue, but obviously the reason why central banks keep interest rates down is because they expect it to increase lending. And I'm wondering if you've done any elasticity studies which show what happens to loans when interest rates go down or up.

And as part of that, there are multiple examples of what happens to earnings if interest rates go up 100 basis points or down. And I'm wondering if you've done anything to show if interest rates remain flat and loans go up 2%, 5%, 6%, 8%, what the impact on earnings would be.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, absolutely. On that last part of your question is precisely what I think we've been talking about today in the Q&A and in the remarks. We've got interest rates -- we talked about interest rates following the forward curve. We talked about interest rates being flat.

And despite both of those circumstances we think in the out years we can grow NII, or in the out quarters we can grow NII because we're growing deposits and we're putting them to work where we can within our risk and client frameworks to grow well priced loans.

Any amount of deposits that doesn't go to our clients and customers we're sticking in the securities portfolio and getting as much yield as we can get there within the constraints of liquidity and capital risk and interest rate risk.

So, we think we can grow in even a flat interest rate environment, grow the NII line, not necessarily in the next quarter, but as we again move out into the future.

Brian has already pointed out all the work we're doing around expenses, so when you combine what we think we can do from a fee base, from an NII perspective and then lowering expenses, we think we can grow earnings in the Company even if interest rates are flat.

RICHARD BOVE: What I'm asking to get a lot more specific in the sense that you do this with interest rate changes, right? In other words, there's these bubble charts which show what will happen to net interest income if interest rates go up 100 basis points. There is nothing which says what happens to earnings if you see a 5% increase in loans.

In other words, what is more important? In the old days people would show these charts, if you hold interest rate flat and volume goes up, what happens to earnings if you get a 5% increase in lending as a result of interest rates staying so low?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Again, Dick, you're right, we tend to talk in our disclosures about interest rates moving 100 basis points, 50 basis points as the -- and holding all else equal what's in our plans. We could just as easily do the opposite. We could hold interest rates flat and then you could see the effect of deposit and loan growth.

We certainly have that analysis. That's how we arrived at our perspective on the future. And I think if that's something that interests you, maybe after the call we can share with you some of that work; it's just math.

RICHARD BOVE: Yes, but the reason why I'm interested is because the whole discussion that we now have is that interest rates are staying flat and therefore bank earnings cannot go up because the other side of the equation, which is what happens to volume when interest rates go down, is just not discussed at all. So I'd love to talk to you more about it.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, okay. That'd be great.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL: Oh, thanks. Thanks. Just a quick follow-up on the capital ratios. Paul, we saw a pretty big improvement across you and your peers in PP&R on seemingly lower op risk hits, particularly legal. Do we start to see that factor into the advanced approach calculation?

You guys get punished pretty hard on op risk in the advanced approach. Do you start to see some -- I guess some light at the end of the tunnel of being able to reduce that given all the reductions in legacy risk assets that you've seen?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Thanks for noticing. So let me start with saying that we are very pleased with our results in CCAR this year and we believe they really do reflect all the hard work we've been putting into that process and improving capital planning.

Operational risk, we have a third of our advanced RWA roughly is operational risk and we would characterize most of that, or I might say all of it, as for businesses we're no longer in, products that we no longer sell and risks that I don't think we ever took as a basic Bank of America. So there's a lot of RWA sitting there and we have to work overtime to show the regulators that we can get that down.

JIM MITCHELL: But you're not -- nothing to read into the results in CCAR yet anyway?

PAUL DONOFRIO: No, I don't think so. Obviously, CCAR is on a standardized basis, so it doesn't incorporate operational risk.

JIM MITCHELL: No, no, but in the PP&R they obviously made that point, that --.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, you're right.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay.

PAUL DONOFRIO: You're right. I think they improved their models. I don't know, but I think we're all looking at what they've done in trying to understand it. And I think they probably improved their models a little bit around op risk and there was a little bit less across all the banks.

I think the banks that have the most maybe benefited -- because it was more of an average type of thing. So maybe we get a little extra benefit in that, but I don't know, to tell you the truth. We don't know what's in their models.

JIM MITCHELL: Right, so it's just a little too early to see any kind of spillover benefits yet?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: It appears we have no further questions at this time. I'll turn the program back over to our presenters for closing remarks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you very much and we look forward to talking to you next quarter. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This will conclude today's program. Thanks for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iibnk : Integrated Banks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160719ec7i0008d
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
16,586 words
   PD
14 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to today's program. (Operator Instructions). Please note this call is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Lee McEntire. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
LEE MCENTIRE, SVP OF IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORP.: Good morning. Thanks to everyone on the phone, as well as the webcast, for joining us this morning for the first-quarter 2016 results. Hopefully everybody has had a chance to review the earnings release. The documents are available on our website.

Before I turn the call over to Brian and Paul, let me remind you we may make some forward-looking statements. For further information on those, please refer to either our earnings release docs or our website or the SEC filings.

Let me just remind you, please limit the number of questions so that we can get to everyone's -- so we can get through all the questions that everyone has. And with that I'm pleased to now turn it over to Brian Moynihan, our Chairman, CEO, for some opening comments before Paul Donofrio, our CFO, goes through the details. Brian?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORP.: Thank you, Lee, and good morning to everyone. We want to thank you for joining us to review our first-quarter results. Today we reported $2.7 billion in earnings this quarter, or $0.21 per diluted share.

As you can see in the results, two large items impacted this quarter's results. We recorded negative market-related NII adjustments for bond premium amortization. That adjustment alone cost us $0.07 per diluted share. And we also recorded a $0.05 per share diluted share cost of seasonal retirement eligible incentives.

When you think about revenue, net interest income, excluding that bond premium adjustment, was $10.6 billion this quarter. This is improvement linked quarter and year-over-year. Our loans are growing across the franchise and, compared to the prior year, are up 11% in our business segments.

In addition, deposit growth remains very strong. Our deposits were up $64 billion from last year or 6% to over $1.2 trillion. This growth reflects our progress to grow responsibly and deepen relationships with all of our core customers.

Moving to noninterest income, it declined year-over-year. Of note, the downdraft in that was driven by Capital Markets and related activities and, to a lesser degree, mortgage servicing and other fees as we continue to wind down our third-party servicing book. However, the other banking sources of noninterest income were relatively stable.

Switching to costs, we continue to drive costs down in this Company. Costs year-over-year in the first quarter were down 6%. FTEs were down 3%. That is $1 billion per quarter, $4 billion on an annualized basis. And if you focus just on the core costs excluding our LAS and litigation, those were down $600 million quarter -- from first quarter of last year or $2.4 billion annualized. We're going to keep driving those costs down as we continue to move forward through 2016.

Turning to slide 3 and looking at the business segment earnings, you can see the good year-over-year results because of the operating leverage in those businesses. The only exception is the results in Global Banking, which were negatively impacted by the increased [energy] reserves.

The combination of business segments outside the All Other group earned $4.5 billion in quarter one this year compared to $3.9 billion in quarter one of 2015. Offsetting those earnings were the $1.9 billion loss in All Other. That loss primarily reflects the two large adjustments I mentioned earlier and some legacy litigation costs.

You can also see the returns and efficiency ratios for each of our segments and note, with the exception of LAS, which came close to breaking even this quarter, they earned above their cost of capital.

Moving to slide 4, during the period of -- during the first quarter, there was a lot of talk with the market volatility, the Company buying surrounding the question about global growth and the forward-looking economic picture. However, we don't see any evidence of our customer base changing.

Spending by consumers remains strong and is up year-over-year over 4%. Loan demand remains solid throughout the franchise. And we continue to position our Company to face any potential economic outcome.

When you think about this, it's important to remember the work we've done over the past years to simplify and strengthen our foundation. We remain a different Company today than that which had entered the last downturn. We start with a clear strategy to serve the core financial needs of the customers.

We've gotten out of businesses, portfolios, products and client relationships that don't meet those strategic goals. We simplified the Company in every area. We cut the number of legal entities in half and we also reduced costs through programs like New BAC that produced [a loan] more than $8 billion in annual savings and our SIM program which continues to operate today.

At the same time we've continued to invest in the areas we can grow. $3 billion in technology-related growth initiatives, especially in areas of digital practice, whether it's in Consumer Banking, Commercial Banking, where we lead the industry with mobile and online platforms. We've also invested more in client facing teammates, funding that investment through elimination of bureaucracy and simplification and elimination of management jobs.

We believe that we have to continue to drive the productivity and will continue to do so in 2016. In the end, when you think about all this, it makes our Company more resolvable. As you all know, we received the latest input from our regulators on our resolution plans yesterday. Those plans were filed nine months ago and we've been busy at work since the day they were filed to continue to remedy the deficiencies and shortcomings stated in those plans and we will do so by the October submission date.

As you move to slide 5 you can also see the financial foundation that we've built in this Company. Liquidity and capital at record levels. Tangible book value per share, the marker of what we as shareholders own in our Company now stands at $16.17 and has improved over $5.00 a share over the last few years even as we've taken the hits that are now largely behind us.

Our funding structure continues to improve. Long-term debt has been cut dramatically; deposits have increased over 20% and most of that growth is coming through our Consumer Banking and Wealth Management segments. Our loan book is now well-balanced, half consumer, half commercial. And importantly, the consumer piece is much more secured lending than it was before the last crisis.

As we look in Global Markets, whether it's our Level 3 assets which are more risky, the total trading assets or VaR, they are all down significantly over the last few years. So as you can see we've simplified our Company and our operating structure.

As we look ahead to 2016, we remain focused on what we can control. We intend to keep driving the core customer activity you see on the loan and deposit and customer flow growth in each and every business, focusing intently on the Wealth Management and Global Markets businesses to take advantage as markets have stabilized.

We'll continue to drive on focusing on costs and drive those costs down and we'll continue to drive to deliver more capital to you as we did in the first quarter as investors. With that, let me hand it over to Paul.

PAUL DONOFRIO, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORP.: Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everybody, and thanks for joining us. Starting on slide 6, we present a summary of the income statement returns for this quarter, highlighting comparisons to Q4 2015 as well as Q1 2015. Earnings this quarter were $2.7 billion or $0.21 per share.

These earnings include the negative impact of the FAS 91 market-related adjustment which reduced EPS by $0.07. They also include $850 million of FAS 123 retirement eligible incentive expense which reduced EPS by $0.05.

For comparative purposes, the aggregate impact of these two same items in Q1 2015 reduced EPS by $0.08. Revenue on an FTE basis was $19.7 billion this quarter. Adjusted for FAS 91, revenue was $20.9 billion, a decline of $700 million from Q1 2015 on a similarly adjusted basis.

This decline was driven by the reduction in sales and trading revenue and IB fees as well as mortgage banking income offset by improvement in adjusted NII. Expenses were $14.8 billion, approximately $1 billion or 6% lower than a year ago, driven by good discipline across the entire Company.

Before moving to the balance sheet I want to note an adjustment to the financial statements this quarter, reclassifying some operating leases. We moved $6 billion of leases to other assets and we made conforming reclassifications to prior periods to improve comparability.

This reclassification had no effect on net income. However, as a result of this reclassification, quarterly NII is lower by approximately $50 million, other income is higher by approximately $180 billion and depreciation expense is higher by about $130 million. While these changes are small and don't affect profits, I wanted to note them so that you can more easily adjust your models.

Turning to slide 7 and the balance sheet. Total assets increased $41 billion from Q4 driven by higher Global Markets repo activity as well as increased cash. Deposits rose $20 billion from Q4 while loans increased $4 billion. Driven by deposit inflows, liquidity rose to $525 billion.

Time to required funding, while down, remains strong at three years. And note that the first quarter included the $8.5 billion settlement payment to Bank of New York Mellon as trustee in the article 77 suit which was reserved for over four years ago. Tangible common equity of $167 billion improved $4.7 billion from Q4. On a per-share basis, tangible book value increased to $16.17, up 9% from Q1 2015.

Turning to regulatory metrics: as a reminder, we report regulatory capital under the advanced approaches. Our CET1 transition ratio under Basel III ended the quarter at 10.3% and really is only comparable to Q4 as prior periods were reported under the standardized approach prior to our exit from parallel run.

On a fully phased-in basis, CET1 capital improved $3.4 billion to $158 billion as improvements from earnings and OCI were partially offset by dividends and repurchases. Under the advanced approaches, compared to Q4 2015, the CET1 ratio increased 30 basis points to 10.1% and is now above our fully phased-in 2019 requirement. RWA decreased roughly $18 billion driven by reductions related to retail exposures as credit quality improved.

We also provide our capital metrics under the standardized approach. Here our CET1 ratio improved to 11% with the same capital improvement as advanced but less of an RWA improvement given standardized is less risk sensitive. Supplemental leverage ratios for both the Parent and the Bank continue to exceed US regulatory minimums that take effect in 2018.

Turning to slide 8, we had solid loan and deposit growth in the quarter. Reported loans of $901 billion on an end of period basis increased $4 billion from Q4 and are up $28 billion or 3% from Q1 2015. Loans in our primary lending segments were up $14 billion or 2% from Q4 which is 8% on an annualized basis.

We continued to see solid commercial loan growth in Global Banking. In Consumer Banking we continue to see strong growth in consumer real estate and vehicle lending. Lastly, in Wealth Management we also saw continued growth in consumer real estate.

Loans outside the primary lending segments in LAS and All Other were down $10 billion from Q4 driven by continued pay downs of first and second lien mortgages as well as loan sales. During the quarter, we sold FHA loans totaling $2.7 billion and NPLs and other delinquent loans of roughly $1 billion, recording a small gain on sales and other income.

Turning to deposits, on an ending basis they reached $1.2 trillion this quarter, growing $64 billion or 6% from Q1 2015. Growth was led by our consumer businesses. Consumer Banking grew $43 billion or 8% year-over-year. GWIM grew nearly $17 billion, a 7% pace, and Global Banking grew at a 3% pace.

Turning to asset quality on slide 9. Outside the energy sector, credit quality is strong. Total net charge-offs were $1.1 billion in Q1 and Q4. We had some immaterial movements this quarter from minor adjustments but overall very little change in consumer losses.

Commercial losses declined slightly from Q4 despite a slight increase in energy charge-offs. Provision of $1 billion in Q1 was up $187 million from Q4. While net charge-offs were flat, total reserve release declined as reserve releases in Consumer were mostly offset by reserve increases in commercial driven by energy exposures.

On slide 10, we provide credit quality data on our Consumer portfolio. Net charge-offs declined $41 million from Q4. Consumer real estate charge-offs benefited from continued portfolio improvement and fewer one-time items, primarily collateral valuation adjustments on consumer real estate. Adjusting for those items, consumer net charge-offs were relatively flat versus Q4. Delinquency levels and NPLs improved and reserve coverage remains strong.

Moving to commercial credit on slide 11, net charge-offs improved $35 million. A decline in non-energy net charge-offs from Q4 more than offset a modest increase in energy losses. Energy charge-offs increased $17 million from Q4 to roughly $100 million in the quarter.

Given that asset quality outside energy remains relatively stable, let's focus on energy. We continue to support our energy clients while managing lending limits and actively engaging with stressed borrowers. Our overall committed energy exposures declined slightly from Q4 while utilized exposures were up by $500 million.

As discussed last quarter, within energy, we believe two subsectors, refining and marketing, as well as vertically integrated, which by the way tend to be large market cap and/or sovereign supported. These two subsectors are less dependent on oil prices and therefore carry less risk than our exposures in E&P and oilfield services.

Looking at our $7.7 billion utilized exposure to the higher risk E&P and oilfield services clients, we saw a decline of $600 million from Q4 as payoffs and charge-offs more than offset draw downs.

In addition, this quarter we moved $1.6 billion of our energy exposure to reservable criticized, and we added $525 million to our energy reserves. We made these adjustments based upon another quarter of not only low oil prices but also volatile prices. This moves our energy reserve to just over $1 billion.

And while these reserves cover also energy portfolio, they would represent 13% of our $7.7 billion E&P and oilfield services exposures. We believe that percentage is probably more relevant as you compare exposures across the industry.

Turning to slide 12, net interest income on an FTE basis was $9.4 billion. Included in NII this quarter was a FAS 91 negative $1.2 billion market-related adjustment for bond premium amortization. This adjustment in Q1 2015 was a negative $500 million. And including TruPS-related charges, Q4 was also negative $500 million.

Adjusted NII of $10.6 billion improved approximately $500 million compared to Q1 2015, excluding FAS 91, and improved $100 million from Q4 after also excluding the TruPS charge.

Several factors contributed to the improvement from Q4. We had good commercial loan growth funded by deposits. We also had about $100 million in seasonal benefits in Q1. Offsetting these factors we had one last day of interest and lower dividends on our Federal Reserve stock as required to contribute to the Highway Trust Fund. Lower long-term rates also offset some of the benefits of the Fed rate hike in December pressuring NII.

Lower long-term rates was also the driver of increased asset sensitivity in the quarter. As of 3/31, and instantaneous 100 basis point parallel increase in rates is estimated to increase NII by approximately $6 billion over the subsequent year. About 40% of this estimated $6 billion increase comes from short end rate improvement and the rest is from long end rate improvement split equally between FAS 91 and reinvestment at higher rates.

Turning to slide 13, noninterest expense was $14.8 billion in the quarter. That is $1 billion or 6% lower than Q1 2015 driven by good expense discipline across the Company. Legacy asset costs excluding litigation -- excuse me, Legacy Assets Servicing costs excluding litigation were $729 million this quarter, declining $292 million from Q1 2015 and $64 million from Q4.

Litigation expense of $388 million was in line with Q1 2015 as we work to resolve remaining legacy issues. First-quarter expense also included FAS 123 annual retirement costs of $850 million, slightly below Q1 2015. First quarter of both years also included about $300 million of seasonally elevated payroll tax expense.

Adjusting for all these items, i.e. the litigation, LAS, FAS 123 and the elevated payroll tax, expenses were $12.5 billion. This decline of $600 million from Q1 2015 was driven by: lower revenue-related costs associated with sales and trading in investment banking, as well as revenue in our Wealth Management business; the roll off of advisory retention awards put in place after the combination with Merrill Lynch; and lastly, SIM initiatives that are improving productivity and helping us lower costs so that we can continue to invest in growth.

Our employee base is down 3% from Q1 2015 and increases in client facing professionals were more than offset by reductions in LAS and other operations staff.

Lastly, before leaving expense highlights I want to remind you that quarterly FDIC insurance expense is set to increase at the large banks until the deposit insurance fund reaches 1.35%. For us, this will increase expense by approximately $100 million pretax starting in Q3 2016.

Okay, turning to the business segments, starting with Consumer Banking on slide 14. Consumer earned $1.8 billion, 22% better than Q1 last year. These earnings reflect continued core customer growth coupled with strong expense management. Lower provision expense from continued improvement in asset quality also benefited the bottom line.

This work generated a strong 24% return on allocated capital. Note that allocated capital increased slightly for 2016 pursuant to our normal capital allocation reviews completed in Q1.

On slide 15 we focus on some important trends. First, in the upper left, we continue to lead the industry in a number of ways, as you can see from the stats. Revenue increased $242 million or 3% from Q1 2015 as NII growth more than offset lower noninterest income.

Net interest income benefited from higher client balances. Noninterest income was down due to lower mortgage banking income offset by increases in card income and service charges. We continue to see mortgage banking income come down given our strategy to book more of our originations on the balance sheet. Expenses declined 2% from Q1 2015.

On the bottom left, you can see the year-over-year decline in FTEs as Mobile Banking growth continues to help us optimize our delivery network. Note, while overall FTEs are down year-over-year, sales specialists are up almost [900] from Q1 2015.

Lastly, our deposit franchise continues to drive operating leverage. Our cost of deposits as a percent of average deposits continues to improve and now stands at 171 basis points which we believe is best-in-class in the industry.

Focusing on Mobile Banking users in the upper right for a minute, we added 910,000 net new mobile users this quarter. We now have nearly 20 million active users and deposit transactions from mobile devices now represents 16% of deposit transactions.

Interestingly, this quarter we added more net new users than any quarter in the last three years and we continue to add new features and capabilities, improving convenience and satisfaction.

One way we are promoting adoption is by deploying digital ambassadors in our financial centers. Digital ambassadors engage with customers who come to our branches to transact. They educate these customers on alternatives to branch banking which are not only more convenient for them but also less expensive for us. Digital sales, digital appointments, digital satisfaction all continue to achieve new highs.

Focusing on client balances, you can see Merrill Edge brokerage assets are up 7% from Q1 2015 on strong flows offset by lower valuations. Moving to the bottom right of the page, note that loans were up 8% in Q1 2015 on strong mortgage and auto growth.

Okay, moving to slide 16, this is a new page that presents some statistics around loan growth and the quality of originations in our Consumer segment. Starting with card we issued 1.2 million cards in the quarter, which is a bit lower than the past few quarters. Average balances were impacted by the sale of a $1.7 billion nonstrategic card portfolio late in Q4.

Adjusting for that divestiture, loans were up from Q4. Spending on credit card, adjusted for divestitures, was up 8% compared to Q1 2015.

As we've discussed many times and shown here, we are originating high FICO loans that have produced very low loss rates and strong risk-adjusted margins currently exceeding 9%. Moving to vehicle lending, one sees similar high-quality, low risk lending stats. Average book FICOs are around 780 and loss rates are low.

Also, the tenor of these loans is relatively conservative compared to the industry as nearly 90% of our loans are less than 73 months. Margins obviously aren't as high as credit card, but average balances are growing well across multiple channels within the business.

Our underwriting standards are producing similar results in consumer real estate lending which is presented on the bottom of the page. Net loss rates on first lien mortgages have been negligible. Remember, we began booking these loans in the Consumer segment in the first quarter of 2014 and the macro consumer environment has been healthy, particularly for high FICO borrowers.

Turning to slide 17, Global Wealth & Investment Management produced earnings of $740 million, up 13% from Q1 2015. Year every year revenue was down but expenses declined more, improving pretax margin to 26%. Overall, revenue declined 2% from Q1 2015 as strong NII growth was more than offset by lower market sensitive revenue.

Asset management revenue declined on lower market values. Transactional revenue was also down and continues to be impacted by the shifting of activity from brokerage to managed relationships as well as market uncertainty. NII benefited from solid deposit and loan growth.

Noninterest expense in the first quarter of 2016 benefited from the fully amortized advisory retention awards given at the time of the Merrill Lynch merger. We have not seen a noticeable attrition as a result of this. Lower revenue-related incentives also contributed to lower expense versus Q1 2015.

Moving to slide 18, despite lower market levels, we continued to see overall solid client engagement and we continue to invest in the business, growing client facing professionals year-over-year. Client balances are $2.5 trillion. Long-term AUM flows were down this quarter as a result of market volatility which impacted client behavior. Average deposits grew $9 billion from Q4 and average loans also grew this quarter concentrated in consumer real estate lending.

Turning to slide 19, Global Banking earned $1.1 billion, down from both comparative periods as energy reserves weighed on results. Despite this increased provision expense, Global Banking was able to deliver a 12% return on allocated capital. And note that we allocated $2 billion more in capital to Global Banking for 2016, pursuant to our annual evaluation of allocated capital.

Global Banking continues to drive solid loan growth within its risk and client frameworks and this drove a nice increase year-over-year in NII, mitigated to some degree by spread compression. That NII improvement, combined with revenue growth from credit cards and treasury fees, partially offset a decline in investment banking and other marks on loans and hedges. Noninterest expense, compared to Q1 2015, reflects a decline in revenue-related expense offset by the cost of adding sales professionals over the past 12 months.

Looking at trends on slide 20 and comparing to Q1 last year, it was obviously a tough quarter for the capital markets with spikes in volatility causing declines in client activity. However, clients still have financing needs and here is where the diversity and strength of our franchise allows us to continue to deliver for them even when capital markets are less attractive.

You can see that trend in our average loans and lease balances, which increased again this quarter and are up 14% year-over-year. Growth in loans was broad-based across C&I, CRE and leasing, although recently we have slow growth in CRE. Spread compression on average across all our customer sizes has moderated relative to a year ago.

Average deposits also increased from Q1 2015, up $11 billion or 4%. We remain focused on our deposit mix which is strong with only 3% classified as 100% runoff balances. On the other hand, total firm-wide IB fees of $1.2 billion were down 22% from Q1 2015 with declines broad-based across M&A, DCM and ECM.

Switching to Global Markets on slide 21 and comparing Q1 last year, again the challenging market condition caused revenue compared to Q1 2015 to be down. The quarter included a benefit from the resolution of a litigation matter and we also had lower revenue-related costs compared to Q1 2015.

All of this resulted in Global Markets reporting earnings just under $1 billion. Reported revenue was down year-over-year, but note that last year DVA negatively impacted revenue versus added to revenue this quarter. Total revenue, excluding DVA, while up from Q4, was down 17% from Q1 last year on lower sales and trading revenue as well as Global Markets share of lower IB fees.

Noninterest expense declined 23% from Q1 2015 driven by lower litigation. Adjusting for litigation, expenses were down 9% as a result of lower revenue-related expenses demonstrating a disciplined approach to compensation.

Moving to trends on the next slide and focusing on the components of our sales and trading performance, sales and trading revenue of $13.3 billion excluding net DVA is up 25% from Q4 with improvement in both FICC and equity, but down 16% from Q1 last year.

Versus Q1 2015, FICC sales and trading of $2.3 billion fell 17% reflecting a tough environment for credit-related products as well as a tough comparison to a strong Q1 2015 in currencies. Equity trading was $1 billion, declining 11% reflecting weaker trading performance in a challenging market environment. Average trading assets continued to trend down as did VaR which remains at historically low levels.

Turning to Legacy Assets & Servicing on slide 23. This segment lost $40 million this quarter. I'm not going to spend a lot of time here as trends are consistent with past quarters. Revenue was down a bit from lower servicing fees as the portfolio of service loans declines. Revenue was also impacted by lower net [hedge results].

As the portfolio shrinks, we continue to lower servicing costs particularly with respect to delinquent loans. The number of 60 plus day delinquent first mortgage loans serviced continue to decline and is now only 88,000 units. Excluding litigation expense this quarter was $729 million, dropping nearly $300 million from Q1 2015 and down $64 million from Q4.

On slide 24 we show All Other which reported a loss of $1.9 billion. Results were impacted by the $1.2 billion FAS 91 market-related adjustment, the FAS 123 seasonal retirement eligible incentive costs and litigation costs. The loss here is higher than Q1 2015 for a number of reasons.

First, the market-related adjustment is more negative this year than last. Second, we had higher gains on sales of loans in Q1 2015 than this period. Third, provision expense is higher as both periods had a benefit from provision but this quarter that benefit was smaller than Q1 2015. Lastly, litigation costs were higher this quarter versus Q1 2015 as we worked down legacy issues.

The effective tax rate for the quarter was about 28%, which is better than we expect for the full year absent any unusual items. One expected item that we want to bring to your attention is another UK tax rate reduction recently proposed in the Chancellor's budget. We expect this to be signed into law in Q3 and will result in a tax charge of about $350 million to reduce the carrying value of our UK DTA. The vast majority of this charge will not impact regulatory capital.

Okay, so let me offer a few takeaways as I finish. Given the market volatility, revenue growth was challenging this quarter. However, we compensated for this by managing expenses well. If one adjusts this period's reported results for the noncash FAS 91 market-related NII amount and the FAS 123 costs, earnings are largely in line with recent quarters. You can see progress most clearly in our business segments which don't include these adjustments.

Taken as a whole, the segments, not including All Other, improved earnings by 16% versus Q1 2015. The drivers of this improvement were solid loan and deposit growth across our customer groups. Net charge-offs were largely unchanged as modest increases in energy were mitigated by other improvements. We strengthened our capital liquidity and we returned $1.5 billion in common dividends repurchased to shareholders.

To Brian's earlier point, we have done years of work to simplify the Company and reduce risk. With $167 billion in tangible common equity, $12 billion in credit reserves and twice the amount of liquidity of a few years ago, we believe we are well prepared to help customers and clients in good and bad times and we are focused on growing earnings in many different economic scenarios. With that let's open it up to Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hey, good morning. Just maybe let's focus -- I'll focus my question on expenses and then I'll get back in the queue. But I think outside of incentive comp expenses generally were better than I was expecting and how much of that is to simplify and improve and how much more do you think there is to do on some of these core expenses I guess is number one?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Look about from Q4 to Q1, $300 million in core expense decline. $100 million of that is the roll off of the amortization of the awards we gave to advisors around the Merrill Lynch acquisition. $200 million of it is just good, solid expense discipline being driven by SIM and other initiatives. If you look at the supplement you're going to see expenses came down in nearly every category.

JIM MITCHELL: And you think there's more to do there? I guess maybe in the context of your discussion around digitization and Consumer, that seems like that could be a longer-term tailwind. Do you guys agree? And do you think that's a material mover or just more incremental?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Jim, I think there's a lot more to do here because at the end of the day adjusting the efficiency ratio for the two major adjustments, which won't reoccur next quarter, you get in the mid-6 -- 66, 67 and we need to drive that down in the low 60s even with the realities of the wealth management business not being as profitable and a big part of our revenue stream but very return on capital beneficial.

So then if you flip and say how are we going to get down there? You're exactly right. If you look, we drifted down even further this quarter. Numbers of branches, smaller numbers of customers, but deposits are up. If you look at headcount in Consumer we continue to reposition it towards the sales and relationship management side and away from the transactional side.

And so that digitization, which is -- we're at $19.6 million, Mobile Banking consumer customers. And interesting enough we're growing on the online customer base, meaning computer-based customers grew over 1 million customers from last year's first quarter. So all that just drives more and more transactions, more and more cost structure of the day-to-day transactional stuff into those environments and saves us money overall.

And at 170 -- 170 basis points, there was a time when that was 300 basis points five, six, seven years ago. We thought we'd got it into the low 2s -- 220, 240, and thought that was pretty good and now we're at 170, and my guess is we continue to push it down.

JIM MITCHELL: That's helpful. And maybe just one ticky tack question on the FDIC charge. It wasn't clear. Is that an annual expense or is that going to be quarterly at $100 million?

PAUL DONOFRIO: It's going to be quarterly $100 million beginning in Q3 until the fund gets up to its adequate level and then it will come down.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, all right. Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Any outlook you can provide in terms of the potential for additional reserve boosts related to energy? We heard one bank yesterday talk about maybe another [$]500 million, although a lot of variability around that number they pointed to. And obviously their book is different than yours, but any thoughts if conditions stay where they are now on additional reserve boosts?

And then just related to that, the outlook for additional reserve release in the rest of the portfolio given, as you mentioned, trends continue to be strong or even improve in some areas.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. Look, in terms of reserve build, we think the reserves we have right now are the right reserves for our portfolio. Built in releases in the future of going to be based upon how companies adapt to the level and duration of low oil prices as well as our net charge-offs and we think companies are adapting.

In terms of reserve releases, we would expect releases in Consumer, but at a slower pace than we've seen in the past as we run off the legacy portfolio and dependent upon the real estate market. Consumer releases would likely go to offset any builds in commercial.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. That's helpful. And then just separately, kind of big picture from a regulatory point of view if I look back to last year, you've had some steps forward, some steps backwards. Obviously had to resubmit on CCAR. That was a net positive once you got the results back. You got the approval for the extra 1% buyback which I think symbolically a lot of investors view and I view as positive.

You've got the living will issue that came up yesterday for you and a number of others. Just at a very high level, maybe give us an update on how you are feeling from the regulatory point of view and where the areas are that you feel like you still need to improve.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think from a global perspective we continue to implement all the rules and regulations of change over the last few years. And importantly, Volcker was an implementation mid-this year. And all lot of the hard work has been done if you think about LCR, SLR, the core Basel rules and the changes.

We absorbed the advanced increases over the last year and now we're above the 10% advanced including the $100 billion or more of RWA for the commercial assets and the off risk of capital of $40-billion-odd. And so, we've absorbed a lot of that into the run rate and I think we're now to the point of fine-tuning the Company around the rules and regulations and continue optimizing it.

And I think that -- we've obviously submitted the CCAR work. We did a tremendous amount of work just on the expense side. That was another $40 million of incremental expense this quarter in the first quarter to continue to get us using third parties to continue to make sure we kept our run rate at best-in-class. And so that's in and being reviewed as we speak.

And then we've got obviously, as you spoke about, the continuation of finishing up the resolution plan, which we -- has probably spent at least $0.25 billion on external parties to help us with and a lot of internal work. And that's all been in the run rate as we speak and ultimately provide relief as we get through it.

So I think overall you've seen us implement most of the rules and optimize the Company. We need to continue to do that. That ought to provide some RWA opportunities in the future, but it continues to take time. But we've -- I think we're in pretty good shape and now the question is just to finish up a couple of these key tasks on the resolution plan that you can see. Unprecedented transparency -- you've got the same letter I got, so you know exactly what we have to do, and we'll get it done.

PAUL DONOFRIO: If I could just have maybe two thoughts. One, this is not an episodic activity for us. This is being (technical difficulty) and meeting the standards under the regulations. That's one.

Two is it's not a group of people who are doing this. It's everybody in the Company. It's -- we have a significant -- it's really being led in many ways by the line of business. We've got involvement from all of the support functions, so it's become part of the culture of the Company to get to the right standards across all the regulations.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. Hey, couple of questions. One is on the quality of the book. You went through and reminded us how much you've improved the quality of book in the Consumer. Could you speak to that in the commercial as well, ex-energy?

And then give us a sense as to whether or not you think that's embedded in the CCAR results. I'm just trying to get an understanding of whether or not you think that RWA hit that you had to take could potentially come down as commercial rolls through?

PAUL DONOFRIO: So outside of -- on the commercial side, outside of energy and metals and mining, we don't see issues with credit quality. We're obviously watching very carefully, but it feels very good outside of those two sectors. What was the second part of your question?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's on the CCAR results.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Oh, yes, yes, absolutely. Look, if you look at our CCAR results, either on an absolute basis or on a comparative basis, you can see what a third-party, the Fed, thinks our losses would be. You're going to see that again in a few months. And I think you can really see, when you look at those results, how much we've improved the credit quality of the Company of both -- across both Consumer and Commercial.

BETSY GRASECK: Do you think that can help in the buyback ask as you go through -- it's not just a question about this year but just over time?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Over time, Betsy, our view is that we can grow the Company and grow it responsibly as we talk about. So there's opportunities for growth and that's -- on the Consumer segment a lot of questions we get is how can you grow and keep your credit discipline? You must be changing.

You can see that this stuff coming on today is as strong as anything we put on and the Commercial you should assume is the same. And so there is still plenty of opportunity for us to grow, which is just good for earnings and prospects.

When you flip it to the other side of it, yes, our job from the management team was to set this Company up to -- it would never have the kind of risk embedded in it that would lead us to difficult times and a real recession, leave alone the CCAR analysis. And as you see the CCAR analysis over time, you see our loss content continue to come down and that should serve us in good stead to be able to take out capital over time, as you said.

And if you think about in the Commercial book, it's -- things like commercial real estate, we have been very disciplined and what we inherited through all the deals and development loans -- all that stuff is really nonexistent at any consequence, so we feel very good about the Commercial book.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and then just separately, you talked a bit about the mobile user increase. And I just wanted to get your sense as to the opportunity from here. You recently launched the new app with mobile pay, which you've been doing internally but now you can do externally.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Right.

BETSY GRASECK: Could you give us a sense as to how that's resonating with clients? Is there an opportunity set here for you and are you going to market it a little bit more aggressively going forward?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So let's -- just framing from the overall top. Last year this quarter we had 17 million mobile users; this year we have 19.5 million. And as Paul said, there was an interesting point that the nominal rate of growth this quarter was one of the highest we've ever had. So even though smart phones have penetrated, you think you've kind of penetrated the customer base, it's still growing fast, so that's number one.

And then as I said earlier, Betsy, and you've followed our Company for a long time, you might -- you would've seen a plateauing in the online -- the computer-based banking, for lack of a better term, people coming in through BankofAmerica.com. And that now is growing as fast [nominally] or faster mobile which means people are also using both sides. And so that's one thing. So the core activity is growing.

And if you look at the activity in the core customer base from card usage -- both debit and credit card usage up 4% plus year-over-year, and that's good. The online mobile part of the spend is now up to 20% of the spend and it's growing 15% per year versus the 4%, 4.5% growth on the total. So that's tremendous.

Then if you get in the wallet categories, just to give you a sense, just in the last week the growth rates in enrolled cards was 12% week to week growth in terms of volume enrolled, 100,000-odd cards came on. The payment usage was up 3% week over week, so you see this phenomenal growth rate. If you annualized that out, that's a weekly growth rate and it ebbs and flows with holidays and everything else, but think about that.

And you see that usage going up, but the mobile wallet payments are still less than 0.2% of the total payments made with plastic at Bank of America. So you still have lots of opportunity to convert activity to a platform which is more convenient for the customer.

And then the other thing we've -- and then a part of that you talk about is the new consortium to build a new P2P deployment for the banking system. We're up and operating that. We still have a few more months before the rest of the colleagues in the consortium get up and then we'll start to push that out in the market heavily.

I think it's a tremendous improvement over what we have today, even though we have a fair amount of volume on it today through clearXchange and that was an effort to get us all together so we could have a very interoperable payment network.

We've got the Visa Checkout work that's going on where we're preloading customers' cards in their wallet. We're about, as best we can tell, 13%, 14% of all the spend in Visa Checkout today and we've got 1 million-plus cards; we'll drive that forward.

And if you put that altogether you're seeing tremendous volume off of all these mechanisms. And in the month of March, to give you an example, we had almost $60 billion of payments off the computer-based platform and about $20 billion off the mobile-based platform. So think about the size of that.

Now given all that, we still sent out about $8 billion of cash out of our ATMs in the month of March on -- that's $0.25 billion a day or more. So it's still -- you have to have all the capabilities and that's what we're building towards. And going back to I think Jim's question earlier, the cost structure keeps moving in your favor as you keep driving this activity through.

BETSY GRASECK: I mean eventually you've got an elimination of checks and some of your bill pay costs potentially go down as well, I would assume?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, eventually is always an operative word. Even today I think there's about a quarter million checks a day, people take a picture of them and send them in on their mobile phones and that didn't exist three years ago. But there's still a quarter million of them that would have to go way, so it will be a while.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, but that's in line with expectations to bring down the consumer expense ratio? I mean, is that really the driver of getting the consumer expense ratio down is the backend on the payments piece?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, it's everything about payments: processing payments, fraud losses, discussions with the customers about the payment -- the multiple payment faculties that they could use and how they interface. And so, it has been a huge driver. Remember we went from 6,100 branches down to 4,600 or whatever today.

And the customer base has increased by 10% and the volume of deposits is up by I think 30% to 40% and checking deposits are up dramatically. So I think year-over-year checking deposits were up 8% over 10% I think, Lee, right? Something like that. So the activity is level is growing up on a smaller and smaller base.

And that cost structure in retail is driven by two things, the people, which we're increasing sales in relationship management content, and the physical plant. And you're absolutely right, driving all that out -- near as we can tell, we spend about $1 billion a year just moving cash around in our Company. So less cash moving around saves us money.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And just remind us what your goal is to get the consumer expense ratio to?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The goal is to have it keep going down every day, week, month, quarter. And I think, Betsy, with all these things you've got to be careful about letting my consumer colleagues think they are doing too good a job. So I keep putting pressure on them, so I'm not going to give them a goal that they think they've achieved something.

BETSY GRASECK: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BERSTEIN: Hi, good morning. I was wondering about -- on the net interest income side if you could talk a little bit about, Paul, what kind of outlook we should think about for the core net interest income. That was [$10.6 billion] this quarter. If rates are relatively stable and we don't see any hike for a while, how should that trend with all the puts and takes?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. So look, we're hesitant to give guidance. Given the volatility rate that we've experienced, guidance has not been that helpful, in my opinion, but I'll give you a couple of thoughts. $10.6 billion, if you think about maybe as a launching off point, given some of the seasonal NII gains we had in Q1 I think a more reasonable launch point would be more like $10.5 billion.

Then you go to the second quarter, we've obviously got to deal with lower long-term rates. Second quarter is always a little bit seasonally lower for us. So there's some -- progress there is going to be challenged. But I think as you head to the third quarter and fourth quarter, when you consider what we're -- think we can do on deposit growth and loan growth, and if rates follow the path along the forward curve, we would expect to make progress in the latter half of the year.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and you do get a day count [help] modest in the second quarter from the first, right? Doesn't that help?

PAUL DONOFRIO: It's a leap year, so I think it's normally down 2, but now it's down 1, or -- (multiple speakers) flat, yes.

JOHN MCDONALD: Going into the second. Okay. And then just on trading, there was a quote in the media from you this morning, Paul, saying March felt better in certain areas. Could you just give us a little color on what changed in March on the trading front? What got better? Has that carried over a little bit into April? And how are you thinking about the Brexit vote from a risk and revenue impact potentially as that comes up this spring?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. So March felt, I think, a lot better than certainly January and February. And April it's really too early, but April feels, at least is starting out, like it's more like March than it is like January and February.

In terms of Brexit, we are focused on our clients and customers. They are going to need -- there's going to be volatility potentially around the vote and around any changes after the vote. And we're working very closely with our customers to address how they need to manage their risk.

From our own Company perspective, we are -- we're going to listen. It's a UK -- it's the UK's decision. We're going to -- after we find out what the decision is and understand it, then I think we will react to it and do what we think is in the best interest of our customers and clients and shareholders and other constituencies.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you. And in terms of March, what -- could you just -- any color on what got better? What felt better? Which areas of the business? Could you help on that?

PAUL DONOFRIO: No, I wouldn't say -- look, I think you heard from competitors that Asia was a little better in March. We're stronger in the US than we are in Asia. We have a significant business there, but -- so there was some improvement out there. But, no, I wouldn't have any more specifics than that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi, thanks very much. On slide 12 you noted your asset sensitivity increased a bunch from the prior quarter. You mentioned driven by the drop in long end rates. Could you talk through how that actually works. And then how much of the $6 billion is short end versus long end?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. 40% of the $6 billion is going to come from an increase in short end rates and then the other 60% is split equally between FAS 91 and reinvesting at longer-term rates. The FAS 91 piece is relatively straightforward. I mean we had a $1.2 billion decline in Q1 because interest rates went down 50 basis points. We're going to retrace that if they go back up.

GLENN SCHORR: Separate one. If you look at the ROA [full] year on year, it's a large amount on a percentage basis from 59% down to 50%. I'm just curious, I wouldn't think weak capital markets in the quarter was the big driver, but I guess the question is what's the big driver of it. And are the new business you are putting on coming in at higher ROA so we should expect that to rise from here, assuming not so crazy markets?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Look, if you think about our ROA and you adjust for FAS 91 market-related NII adjustments and retirement-eligible expenses, you're going to get into the mid-70s. And then if you give us some credit for the progress we've made in LAS over the last few years and continue with that progress, you're going to get even higher.

From there it's about growing loans -- growing deposits, growing loans, putting on, like you said, assets that are accretive to what we have on the books right now. And, importantly, continuing to grind and work on expenses. And so, that's what we've got to do.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. One last tiny one is Wealth Management margins increased a couple hundred basis points quarter on quarter. 500 year on year without the help of revenues. Expenses were down a bunch. You mentioned the $100 million roll off of the previous amortized retention awards. What's the rest of the expense saves inside Wealth Management? It's pretty good in a world that didn't have much revenue.

PAUL DONOFRIO: It's compensation related given the fact that revenue was a little weak because of the volatile markets. That's not to say we're not working on bringing down costs in that segment as well, but specifically to answer your question in Q1, that's what drove it.

GLENN SCHORR: Is that nonproduction expenses, meaning usually the comp stuff goes hand-in-hand with revenues?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, it's -- they are working on all the elements expense, so you've got that right. But also remember as the NII increases there's not as much expense attached to that. So that's one of the operating leverage points in wealth management that we were losing a lot last year that we're going to get back as short-term rates rise because they are a heavy deposit business.

Remember, they alone are $260 billion of deposits in Wealth Management, which those deposits and loans continue to grow which continues to produce more core NII. As well as what everybody thinks of as being a large Investment Management trust fee type company. But they are a big bank and the loans grow and that's going to drive that up and that is marginally more profitable for the shareholder.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, perfect. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR & Company.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & COMPANY: Hey, thank you very much, guys. On the legacy asset, on the -- you lowered your loans from 103,000 to 88,000 on the high touch servicing or default servicing. How much of that was sold or are you guys just working through the book?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I would classify it as little to very little sold this quarter. It's just working service loans -- delinquent service loans down.

PAUL MILLER: Just working it down? And has -- the new stuff coming in, is that still a material amount or it has that been -- is that mainly done? Like you're not really getting a lot of new stuff coming into this bucket?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Very little from any production that was done after the crisis, Paul, as you could expect. So they're delinquency statistics. So really you still have modifications that -- the re-modification work going on because people have had modifications for years. Some portion of them go back in the situation and then you have just the normal flow.

But that number keeps working itself down and, based on the quality of our portfolio, should come down even significant to where it is. This is a grind now. This is just working through -- if some were involved in litigation take time. It's just a grind to work them out now.

PAUL MILLER: And then you said in the quarter -- and you disclosed this a very, very clearly -- that it was about $700 million on this. Where can we -- can this be cut in half by the end of the year? When does this really become immaterial do you think?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, as we've told you, our target -- our next weigh station on improving this thing is $500 million at the end of the year and we're well on our way to get there, Paul. But your experienced in this business. That is not an acceptable number, but I just need to keep them tracking it down.

What's interesting, and if you look at the headcount we show you and stuff, what is changing is they're headcount down is at 9,800 or something like that, 9,900 at the end of the quarter so it's come down from a high of 58,000 internal people plus external contractors dramatically.

Now we've got to get some of the harder costs out, meaning the systems and technology that was overbuilt for $12 million servicing portfolio, the real estate, and that takes a little harder work. So we're grinding all that out. So say $700 million and change to $500 million and change and ultimately we've got to get it down to significantly below that $500 million to make it makes sense as a servicing.

I think it's okay, but to actually be an effective servicing platform we should drive it down. Your point about immateriality is something -- this is becoming less and less of an event to us. And so what we've got to execute on -- it's not going to have the impact of when we had $3.1 billion of quarterly costs a few years ago.

PAUL DONOFRIO: $1.4 million of 60 plus day delinquent loan service.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So $500 million by year end, that's our next goal, and then when we get there we'll give you another one. But we're just -- like I said earlier to Betsy on the Consumer side, we've got to keep moving this in the right direction and we have an idea where we'll get to, but we want to make sure we get the first piece out, it's $1 billion a year.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, guys. Guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thanks very much. If I could just refer back to slide 16 for a moment. There's been a lot of debate about the dynamics in the auto lending market, about deterioration in underwriting and the risks of large amounts of used cars coming off of lease. Could you give us any granularity about what you are seeing in lending across the FICO spectrum and how you are anticipating that residual issue to play out?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. Look, this is some perspective. We're maintaining our market share in auto lending, but we're very focused on originating prime and super prime loans. Average FICO score, as you can see on the page, of 778 and debt to income ratios are at all-time lows.

Again, we're not following the market from a structuring standpoint to the longer tenors. 90% of our loans are 73 months or lower, so that's our strategy. And I think if we stick to that, we'll be fine. We did pull forward from -- we had an opportunity this quarter to get more flow. We had planned to do that in later quarters. We pulled that volume to this quarter and we'll evaluate it in future quarters.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And you asked a question about residual values and the volume of cars sold and what happens. We also, as part of our stress testing of our -- stress testing our portfolios, internal stress testing and also for the CCAR DFAST work, we stress the collection -- the recognized collection value of cars down 40% and it's not -- it'd obviously have more losses, why wouldn't you?

But what really controls your losses is the quality portfolio and what runs through that calculation. And that number is, because of the high quality is very low. So we test that question you're asking which is what happens if residual values or used car values continue to -- fell dramatically in a recessionary environment or something and that's one of the things we test, and it's not a big number.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Right, and when you say that you pulled forward some flow, what do you mean by that?

PAUL DONOFRIO: We had the opportunity -- we have relationships where -- on the flow side and when we see opportunities we can pull some of that in. Originations come through the branch, they come online and they come through our relationships with financial institutions who have relationships with dealers.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And our relationship with dealers also.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, our relationship with dealers. So every once in a while we'll see an opportunity to add some balances and if it's within our underwriting standards we'll consider it.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: And that was primarily on the indirect side?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay. Thanks very much for the clarity.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Hi, my short question is when will the return on equity go into the double-digit range? Look, you have a good franchise and balance sheet. You're showing growth in loans, deposits, online banking, other areas. And you're showing lower, better expenses, branches, headcount, risk but it's not adding up. I mean your stock is 15% below tangible book value and this was yet one more quarter of mid-single-digit ROEs and worse than peer efficiency.

So my question is why is Bank of America less efficient than peer? And it's tough on the outside to know because you have $2 billion of expenses in Other that's not allocated to the business lines. What is your Plan B if rates don't go up and when will the ROE go into the double-digits?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Well, hi, Mike. Thank you. So I guess I would start by again -- just so everybody understands the facts -- we -- if you adjust for FAS 91 and FAS 123, our return on tangible common equity would be roughly 8.5%. And again, as I said before, we've made a lot of progress in LAS. And if you give us any credit for the progress for the progress we think we're going to make in the future, we're going to be able to take that 8.5% even further.

We've made, I think -- so the key is we've got to continue to make progress on expenses. I'll get to revenue in a second, but we've got to continue to make progress on expenses and, again, I think we've demonstrated that we can do that. If you look just year-over-year, expenses are down $1 billion or 6%. If you go back to Q1, Q1 2011, we've taken quarterly expenses down, core quarterly expenses down $3.5 billion, so that's a $14 billion run rate. We've got to continue to do that.

If you look this quarter at our Consumer and GWIM segments, you can see the operating leverage. If you look at the whole Company and you back off FAS 91, you can see the operating leverage. So we've just got to continue to work on expenses. We're not sitting around waiting for rates to go up. It would help if they did, and that's what we're focused on.

MIKE MAYO: All right, if I can follow-up. Despite all the progress that you've made -- and you talked about the LAS expenses, you can talk about New BAC, you can talk about the quarterly expense rate since 2011. But your core EPS is still $0.33 this quarter, and it was a weak -- tough quarter, tough environment, but it still in that $0.35 range.

So despite all those expense savings we're not seeing it in the core EPS number that's still around $0.35. So where did all those expense savings go or is this going to come through in future quarters?

And I know I've asked this question on many earnings calls and also thank you, Bank of America, for having that -- and Brian for having that opening letter from the lead director in the annual report. Jack Bovender says that he wants to engage more with investors.

And so I do hope that he takes my questions at the annual meeting to engage a little bit more because I've asked this so many times. I still don't feel like I have an answer that I understand, so just one more try at it, Paul. Just where are these expense savings going if EPS is still in the same range?

PAUL DONOFRIO: So, they're going -- you sort of have identified the opportunity that we have in a different market environment. It's a judgment I think we have to make. But a portion of these savings are going to increase growth in the future. A portion are going to the bottom line.

That's the lever we can pull over an extended period of time to adjust for the market environment. We've proven we can get the expenses out. If we wanted them all to drop to the bottom line we could do that, but we need to invest in growth at the same time and we've got to balance that.

MIKE MAYO: So, no new New BAC coming up or anything like that? It's just -- as I guess, Brian, you've said, you grind it out. It's just -- it would be nice to see more of the progression. Is it -- do you think it's a 2016 event? A 2017 event? Or we just -- when rates go up we'll see more of it?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Look, in terms -- we are focused on driving down expenses every day, every quarter, every week. You can call it anything you want. We've got a lot of focus on this and I think you're going to continue to see progress.

Our operating leverage on an adjusted basis this quarter was meaningful. You can see it. If you adjust for FAS 91, revenue down 3%, expenses down 6%. We're getting the operating leverage. Look at the GWIM segment, look at the Consumer segment. We are focused on it.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you, Paul.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Hi, good morning. So, I had a follow-up to Glenn's earlier question on the Wealth Management margin. I just want to get a sense as to whether we should be thinking about that 26% margin that we saw in the quarter as a good jumping off point, just given some of the tailwinds you had spoken to, whether it be the higher-margin NII growth and the absence of the legacy Merrill awards. And I suppose as it relates to that, are preparation efforts for things such as DoL compliance potentially going to weigh on the margin in future quarters?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: A couple things with that. The 26% -- if you think back across the last year when we discussed this, we had the ATP piece. And so a chunk of that is that, the other chunk is good expense management. I said earlier the margin net interest income stabilizing, improving. They been growing the balances now. It's more stable. So I think it is a good starting point.

It will -- in some cases you would hope that it wouldn't go up a lot because that would mean asset management fees and other things are growing, which attach more compensation, less marginal profit, which will be good news, because the overall profit will grow better. But you should assume that that's a level we should hold onto if -- in a relatively stable environment as we see this quarter starting out at.

When you go to the fiduciary, we've been working on that, obviously. Just because it's the final rule and it came out recently we've been working on it. So I don't think -- I think to the extent there's cost embedded in that, a lot of it's in the run rate and it will be marginally in the run rate for the next few quarters. It's not a hugely substantial cost and if you even -- look, we've spent a lot of time educating our teammates about doing it. There are operational costs but I don't think it's material in the grand scheme of things.

PAUL DONOFRIO: I'll just add a little bit to that. I think from the very beginning we supported the fundamental objectives of the Department of Labor. And if you look at our goals-based strategy, it delivers a lot of what they are getting at with that rule in terms of the best interest standard.

Our Merrill Lynch One advisory platform, which we successfully completed the transition of a lot of clients this quarter. That's a great example of how we've been up front to create an experience that is really transparent, single fee schedule, etc. That's a significant investment. And we're guessing that that investment is really going to pay off here in terms of implementing this rule.

If you look at the roughly $2 trillion of [GUM] client assets we have outside of deposits and loans, we think the Department of Labor will probably impact less than 10% of that. And certainly given the implementation schedule we wouldn't expect to see much of an impact, if any impact, in 2016 and as we digest the rules we'll just have to evaluate how it's going to affect out years.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay. So it sounds as though a lot of the incremental expense is already in the run rate and that you don't anticipate much revenue disruption based on the final rule as written?

PAUL DONOFRIO: That's correct.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay. Got it. And maybe just focusing on the expense base within Global Markets. Was certainly pleased to see the absolute level of dollar expense was, from what I could tell, the lowest level that we've seen over the last five years. So clearly some of the efforts that you highlighted to right size the cost base have borne fruit.

And as we think about the expense trajectory for this business, what should we expect in an environment where the trading revenues are relatively stable or consistent with what we saw in the most recent quarter? Is that [$2.4 billion] a reasonable run rate expectation?

PAUL DONOFRIO: We're going to continue -- like every other segment, we're going to continue to work on bringing our costs down in this segment as well. I think there's lots of things we can do from an operational standpoint to improve profitability over the medium and long term and we're focused on that.

You're right, here compensation expenses are significant and they are going to be consistent with the revenue performance. I think we were disciplined this quarter in terms of our compensation expense and you saw that in the numbers.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: They've been adjusting -- as you read about in the press, there is a -- it's not in the run rate yet, it comes in next quarter because it happened mid-March. They made major adjustments in the size of the platform in mid-March. I'll give you an example.

We have equity sales people year-over-year down 60 or 70 on a base of -- that's probably down 15% or 20% at least. So fab in that business continues to reposition. Bernie and Jim continue on the fixed income side so they've made some major adjustments in headcount. So we'll hold it down here.

You want this expense to go up because that means the revenue has gone back up. So you've got to be careful. But the fundamental operating platform has embedded in the run rate cost actually continue to develop a systems architecture, continue to drive the compliance of Volcker and all that stuff as you go in the run rate. So the chances of the non-compensation related expenses moving a lot is not the big deal and the question is just how do you incrementally keep management down.

PAUL DONOFRIO: The other thing to remember just in this quarter, I would just point out again, that we did have a little bit of help from litigation. We had a reversal of a prior matter. It helped on the expense line.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay. And can you quantify how much of a benefit that provided, Paul?

PAUL DONOFRIO: We don't generally comment on those sorts of things. It was -- look, it was north of $100 million.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay, got it. And then just one more final one for me, just on the investment banking side. You talked about stability in March continuing into April on the trading business. One of your competitors talked about actually seeing some improving trends in the capital raising environment in April versus what was clearly a challenging quarter in 1Q.

I didn't know if you were seeing some improvement on the capital raising side as well. And if you can give us an update just in terms of backlogs in some of the other pockets like M&A, that would be helpful.

PAUL DONOFRIO: As you might imagine, the pipeline is -- looks great because everybody -- people need to transact, they just haven't -- they just didn't do it in the first quarter, so it's building up. In periods where there's volatility like this, the best thing our bankers can do is to be in front of CEOs, Boards and CFOs. They are doing that.

There is going to be -- have to be financing activity at some point because clients need to finance. And so our pipeline looks good. I wouldn't necessarily say we've seen any -- in the first few days of April we've seen any dramatic increase in capital markets activity, but there is certainly lots of dialogue. The pipeline looks good again because I think there's a lot of pent-up demand there.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think the simple thing to think about in the investment banking Capital Market side is the work is ready to go, we just -- if we continue to see the stability, you will see it come through. And that's -- our comments are really based on still -- they're still stabilizing as we speak.

And so, if that happens, you expect to see it start pulling through and it would be up from the quarter, quarter over quarter. But there are still a few more weeks of stability that you have to see for people to actually pull the trigger on financings and stuff.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Obvious, the markets right now are stable. People can finance if they want to. I think it's just a question, as Brian said, of CEOs and Boards just making sure that the stability we're seeing right now is something that they can count on as they go to market.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks. Good morning. Brian, right at the outset you said that there has really been no meaningful change in the customer base activity. And then the following on your comments about stable capital markets, you are growing the core loan book now double-digits still, 11%. I'm just wondering how much of that is the environment holding up. How much of that is still the spigot opening from reasonable growth? And just your outlook in terms of customer behavior on the lending side?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The other thing, Ken, is that you have to remember that for a long period of time we were fighting the runoff of the noncore assets, which are now small enough that we could actually overcome them. So there are a lot of quarters where the core activity was growing but you couldn't find it because -- if you look at the slide you can see the All Other, which is the investment portfolio, really mortgages and then the LAS assets are now small enough so that the quarter-to-quarter runoff.

But I think it's solid across-the-board. I think that in the segments we focus in on the Consumer side, prime, super prime, there's strong activity. Mortgages, you could see the origination volumes this quarter were solid. I think if you think of home equity has kicked back up a little bit again because people see home equity in their house.

The auto businesses strong, but it will ebb and flow with how many units get sold ultimately because that's the nature of the business. Although I think we can gain share there because our share on our direct-to-consumer business was very low. We didn't even do it two years ago and now we're up to, I don't know, $0.5 billion or more a quarter.

So I think from a consumer side, the card business, because we've now sold through all the portfolios we have to sell, I think you should see stable and start to see better year-over-year comparables than we've had the last several years. Obviously the last big portfolio went out in the fourth quarter, and so I think we feel good.

If you look at the online customers, the creditworthy customers that we deal with are there to borrow and we're lending to them. And if you go on the Commercial side, as Paul said earlier, I think you would expect us the CRE -- we slowed -- we want to be careful in CRE, so we are doing very fundamentally structured loans. But in C&I, and a nice -- business banking, not a huge business for us, frankly, but they finally are making it through their runoff and that's good.

And so I think across all those businesses you should see -- it may not grow as fast as [normally] it has. Two years ago we had the international book grow and corporate -- we slowed that down based on our judgments about risk. And so I think it's a pretty balanced growth. And so the question always is do you have to compromise your credit standards to grow? No, we don't because you can see that. And then secondly, is there opportunity to actually get growth? And the answer is yes. But -- and that's just good, hard work.

KEN USDIN: Yes, Brian, to that last point, how much opportunity actually, without pointing to compromising, but how much more spigot opening can you still do, to your point about the post crisis, the tightening up internally? Are you still under lent, if at all. Or you still have to be somewhat careful about where we are in this stage of the economic cycle being that we are seven-plus years into an expansion?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have to be careful and that's what I think we wanted to show you some of the -- there are two -- three basic principles that you have to follow. One is, we had to balance the portfolios between Commercial and Consumer.

Second, we had to get the Consumer to secure portfolios, dominating versus unsecured both credit card -- now the loans really put us behind -- in a tough situation last time. And then, third, you've got to maintain your individual quality of underwriting. Consumer is more formulaic and Commercial more deal selection and customer selection.

But if you look at it -- I'll just give you the simplest way to think about this. We have moved probably from 8 out of 10 mortgage holders who are absolutely within our credit box, absolutely we do business with, getting their mortgage somewhere else to maybe 7. So we've still got 7 more to go without talking about expanding the credit parameters in our mortgage business one iota.

So think of that as a demonstration point that you can go over and over again. So there is plenty of market share out there. And then one of the things, Ken, we're looking at is we look across our 90-odd markets in the United States. There are areas where we have tremendous opportunity to expand our market share where the franchise just wasn't balanced.

Some areas of franchise, the wealth management business is a high percentage; in some places, it's low. The middle-market business is very high market -- very strong, good market shares in certain markets and a third of that in other markets. And so, where we're deploying these people is also based on our view of which market. So it's going into that market, hiring talent, using this massive customer capability we have to go drive it. Again, target the exact customers we want.

So, even on a geographic basis, whether it's the deposit business and expanding in some of those markets, but also in the commercial lending business and -- otherwise there's opportunities without compromising credit.

PAUL DONOFRIO: As Brian said, that's where those added sales professionals are going. They're going to markets where we think we have synergies across commercial, GWIM and Consumer.

KEN USDIN: Okay, got it. so in some -- you think this 10% plus primary lending is still achievable? That's what it sounds like from what you're saying.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think we've been telling people to focus more on mid-single-digits type of numbers in a given 2% growth -- 1.5%, 2% growth economy as opposed to 10%. So -- but the core business is growing faster and then we're still running off, but we've told people to focus in at that level.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Understood. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning. Brian, I think we've all over the last few years been trying to find banking normal and it's proving hard to find. And it kind of has begun to strike some of us that maybe first quarter -- what we saw in the first quarter in terms of volatility and continued low rates, etc., etc., is banking normal, at least for the foreseeable future.

And under that scenario, if you believe that, would you -- have you begun to look at -- take a second look at your businesses again? And will there be any sort of reallocation of capital going forward and are there businesses you might want to exit?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I'm not sure you can consider first-quarter banking normal in the sense that we still have extra costs we've got a get out of here, Nancy, that we continue to work down. Litigation was elevated in the quarter from more the normalized level that we feel we can achieve and things like that. But leave that aside.

The basic principle is we continuously look at the franchise to see about optimization. So generally when people ask that question they are thinking about a couple different areas. One is the markets area. We show you the markets. Profitability returns in this business. But if you get into the supplement you'll see you can never call a markets business an annuity business.

But what drives our business is really a connection between the issuer clients, the commercial borrowers and commercial clients and the investor clients that we serve. And to do that -- in our Wealth Management business, because that's a group of people that rely on the research platform. If you look, the interconnectedness of that is massive and -- whether it's by us getting out of proprietary trading and Volcker and things like that, the whole -- the real business is driven at that.

And so, if you -- we've taken the balance sheet from implying at the time of Merrill, probably nearly to $800 billion or more, maybe closer to $1 trillion down to $500 billion and the revenues have stabilized and I think that's a good place for us to be. Number one research plant in the world. Number one in the US this year. The ability to use it in wealth management, the ability to use it to inform our corporate customers.

So, we look at how we pare away things and look at it -- so in the international business we've pared back -- there was 1,200 -- I don't know, 800 to 1,200 people that were downsized in markets and banking in the first quarter. So we keep -- it's not in or out, it's more how do you keep paring it back.

And so, if you look across there, we always look at that question. We continue to look at it, but right now we really like the franchise and the connectivity between the franchise of all the different elements, focused on markets, focused on wealth management, focused on the core business.

And I think now the question is with low rates, we just have to grind the cost down and that's going to come out of really all the pieces and -- well, for a while, it was -- you could go at it at a fairly high level and drive it. Now it's really incrementally idea by idea and taking it out and that's why you see that constant improvement.

Improvement of core costs of $2 billion run rate first quarter last year to first quarter this year is not -- is working at it. It just takes more time because 130 million square feet of real estate down to 80 million going to 70 million. There's a lot of work to get out of that real estate.

NANCY BUSH: Right. Just as an add-on and looking at costs in the consumer bank, and you look at your mobile penetration and how it's going up, etc., etc. Is there a magic number in terms of -- mobile transactions, mobile penetration, just the whole use of mobile in your Company where I think you've been a leader that will lead to sort of a step down in branches. Are we sort of on this threshold of being able to take branches down yet another however many?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think if you think of branches and think about it as offices as opposed to the historical notion of a place where you transact, the question of how many you have is going to be how many relationship managers you need and how many places they have to sit. And so, what we've done is consolidated the branches to be even bigger.

So the sheer number -- so we added 6,100, or 4,600. Each year we've repositioned 200 or 300 of them. But what we're doing is getting out of smaller branches and building into bigger branches. So we consolidated three into one and build up -- that branch has in it US trust people, Wealth Management people, small business salespeople.

So what we're actually -- if you think about it as a real estate question, the number is not as important as they are full and that they are marginally driving the profit. And you can get a lot of salespeople per square inch, a lot of customer activity per square inch, and that's where we're going.

And so, you're going to see some of the new prototypes that we've deployed. You can see in places like Denver where we're now on our third branch and we'll continue to build out that are much -- look much more like a sales office than what people's vision of a traditional branch.

But going to your earlier question, Nancy, I don't know where this stops and I'm not -- that's not saying I'm trying to hide an answer that I have, it's just that if you and I were here last year, and we were, and you said 17 million mobile users, that's good penetration, it's 2 million more a year later.

And as computer-based banking is up 1.5 million or something like that, which is kind of remarkable on top of that. So we don't know where this goes, but we're going to be pushing ahead, following our clients and making sure we stay with them. At the same time, our customer satisfaction scores are now reaching an all-time high, which means the way we're doing it works for them.

And you've given me your feedback about our customer focus and capabilities over the years, but they are back to the highest they've ever been and that's, importantly, managing that transition carefully and that's what we've got to keep doing.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you.

PAUL DONOFRIO: I just want to echo a couple of thoughts the Brian said. I think the branches are going to become not a destination where people come to transact but a destination where people come because they need a product or service because of something changing in their lives. They need to start saving for their kids' college or they need a new -- they need a mortgage or they need a credit card.

It's more about they are coming there because of some life event or because of some product or [service] they need, not for every day transaction banking. We'll still have the branches that can do that for people who prefer that, but I think over time people will recognize the convenience and safety of doing these things online, doing them electronic not from paper. And the branches will become -- we're organizing our branches so that they become destinations for people who need help with their financial lives.

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thanks. I wanted to focus on mortgage banking and the retention of those loans, more on the balance sheet than continuing to push them to the GSIBs. Is that regulatory driven or are you really looking for that higher retention rate because you're looking for some assets that have duration, so is that one of the better maybe option adjusted yields that you can get at this point?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Marty, you can come at this a fairly straightforward way which is we have $1.2 trillion in deposits and we have $900 billion in loans. And if we put our own mortgages on the balance sheet we know the quality, we know the customer and we know that the servicing cost ultimately will be a lot less of how we're doing it.

If we buy third-party loans -- so to extract the value of those deposits we've got to invest in something. We invested substantially in treasuries. We have to -- back to mortgages and mortgage-backed securities. And so the question is why by someone else's when you are producing your own?

So it's really a very pragmatic view of -- we want to control our destiny in mortgage going forward so that the customer we look in the eye and originate the mortgage with is the customers we service for, is the customer we have the asset quality with and there is no third party involved. So it's more driven by us just getting to our own, controlling our own destiny.

MARTY MOSBY: And a follow-up to that is if you look at the impact of that on the business segments you actually are increasing the portfolio by about 30%, which is showing that retention. However, if you look at All Other, it's more than overkill swamping that growth.

You had about a $45 billion reduction, and kind of getting back to Mike's question about where is the benefits going, just the reduction in All Other, that almost $50 billion of loans is over $1 billion worth of NII that is going away, whereas you are having to do and invest and spend money to generate the 30% growth in the business.

So is the runoff still part of where some of the leakage is that we are hoping to get in all the improvements in growth that you're showing in the core? And when does that -- what's left is about $100 billion, when is that finally done so that you wouldn't have that leakage anymore?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, the -- we used to -- there is an element that's just as -- we used to book that retained piece in the central area. We stopped doing that. That's showing the changeover, so you've got to think of it a little bit together. But -- and it's consistent with our peers. Most people have their consumer businesses booked to loans they retain. We just didn't do that for years.

But remember, those -- you've got to remember that you've got to think of the whole balance sheet. You're looking at the loan category. The money comes out of center because of liquidity demands in the rules. It goes into treasuries and other securities which are not in that chart because they are not loans, mortgage-backed securities and treasuries and that still has a yield to it. Not as dollar-denominated as much as mortgages but has a yield to it.

That has been driven more by the liquidity demands in LCR than it is by anything else, which is the centralized portfolio. We've gone from $100 billion in liquidity four or five years ago to $500 billion, so that has a cost to it in that -- in prior years that could have been invested in high-yielding assets, but not -- mortgages don't count for liquidity.

MARTY MOSBY: Got you. Thanks.

PAUL DONOFRIO: And again, look -- the facts are we've been growing overall, so year-over-year including those segments which, as you point off by our strategy are running off faster. We're still growing the overall balance sheet.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK: Hi, it's a follow-up on mortgage. So I think one of your suppliers or one of your partners, PHH, mentioned that you were going to be pulling back some of the servicing to yourself. And I just wanted to understand did you have to do anything to build for that book of business or is this already something that's in your run rate on the expense side and we're going to be bringing in incremental revenues on the mortgage servicing side?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's marginally -- will be absorbed. If you think about it, the total number of loans is relatively small. The total -- it will go on the platform of very little change.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and is this the beginning of pulling it all over?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think -- I would just say that we're trying to be consistent with our strategy of controlling our own destiny.

BETSY GRASECK: okay. All right. That's great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And it appears we have no further questions. Ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude today's Bank of America earnings announcement call. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect and have a great day.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160415ec4e0018i
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
13,411 words
   PD
19 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to today's Bank of America earnings announcement.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Please note that this call may be recorded. I will be standing by if you should need any assistance. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Lee McEntire.

LEE MCENTIRE, SVP, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Thanks to everybody on the phone. Thanks for those that are joining us on the webcast as well.

Welcome to the fourth-quarter earnings results presentation. Hopefully everyone's had a chance to review the earnings that we released. It's available on the Bank of America investor relations website.

And so before I turn the call over to Brian and Paul let me remind you we may make some forward-looking statements. For further information on those please refer to either our earnings release documents on our website or our SEC filings. So with that I will turn it over to our CEO, Brian Moynihan.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CHAIRMAN & CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Lee, and good morning. Thanks to all of you for joining us this morning to discuss our fourth-quarter results.

Before Paul Donofrio takes you through the details of the quarter I just wanted to provide some overall context on our progress in 2015 and the opportunities and challenges ahead. As you know for the fourth quarter we reported $3.3 billion in earnings or $0.28 per diluted share.

For 2015 we had net income of $15.9 billion. That's the highest net income we've had in a long time.

Full-year return metrics are 74 basis points for ROA and 9% for return on tangible common equity. During 2015 we continued to drive our eight lines of business forward. We focused on driving responsible growth across all our businesses and as you look at the annual earnings of the Company and see how they fell you can see how they came through.

Our consumer and wealth management business serving mass-market customers all the way to the wealthiest Americans delivered $9.3 billion net income this year. Our global banking business, which provides services to small, medium and large companies around the world, produced $5.3 billion in net income this year.

Our institutional investor clients, our markets business, with its market leading research capabilities and top-tier platform across the globe delivered $3 billion in earnings after adjusting for DVA in a very challenging market. What's clear in these earnings despite the gyrations in the markets especially at the end of the year last year is the annuity nature that we get from our franchise by driving customer and client flows. That's the power of the Company, its balance and its scope and its strong customer base.

We aim to continue to improve it every day for our clients and customers and our shareholders. These results reflect the work we've done over the past several years to develop a more straightforward simplified operating model and focus on responsible growth.

As you can see on slide 2 across a variety of measures, loan growth, business activity, capital, liquidity, credit losses and cost management, we've made meaningful progress and believe we're positioned for a variety of economic cycles. At the foundation of all of this is a strong capital liquidity base. We added to our record liquidity levels in 2015 and we believe we're well positioned against the 2017 LCR requirements with total global excess liquidity resources now over $500 billion.

This amount represents nearly a quarter of our balance sheet. We have enough parent liquidity to last more than three years before we need to tap the market for funding.

Now our liquidity levels were driven by strong growth in deposits this year. And we were able to put that funding to work to grow loans on an absolute basis for the first time in several years.

Loan growth was all driven by organic activity and consistent with our risk posture. Our tangible common equity of $162 billion is at record levels as well. We returned $4.5 billion to shareholders this year in common dividends and share repurchases.

Our tangible book value per share improved 8% in the past 12 months to a new high of $15.62. Our responsible lending focus also shows in our underwriting results. Our net charge-offs were down to $4.3 billion this year, consistent with 2014 but much lower than previous years.

Commercial charge-offs increased off a very low base, mostly from oil-related charge-offs, while consumer losses as a core continue to improve. This reflects both our responsible underwriting and continued improvement in our legacy portfolios.

Finally, we get to the cost management side. At the heart of our work has been improving expenses which you can see are down sequentially from last year, mostly on lower litigation costs but also on improved LAS and other operating costs.

These have improved steadily across the last several years. We began new BAC in 2011 and completed it in 2014. Since then we have been using our simplify and improve initiatives to find savings that more than offset increased compliance, merit and other inflationary cost.

But most importantly those savings fund investments in our business whether it's in technology, our salesforce growth or other infrastructure costs.

As we move to slide 3 we include a few examples of trends of business activity in our consumer side of the house and wealth management side of the house. As you can see we grew average deposits in consumer banking wealth management business $52 billion or 7% comparing year-over-year fourth-quarter periods.

These deposits were up over $105 billion in core deposits since the end of 2012. This is strong organic growth as a result of hard work and improving the customer satisfaction our franchise by making it easier for customers to do business with our bank and strong product management simplifying the product set. All this has been done, we've optimized our delivery network reducing our financial centers, divesting certain markets and also expanding our award-winning mobile capabilities and the customer base that uses that.

As you can see this work also extends to our wealth management business. We've had long-term net flows for every quarter for a 6.5 years in wealth management. We have record low levels and significant higher deposit levels.

Good products and advice, a growing sales force and two of the leading brands in the business position us well here. When you move to our global banking markets area you can see in the institutional side of the house set forth on slide 4 we saw solid activity in 2015. Loans to commercial and corporate clients around the globe have grown nicely.

Client demand has been good and our bankers have met our challenge to capture market share responsibly. This focus allows us to demonstrate a strong 12% growth in loans and global banking in the past 12 months. And you can see the deposit growth has been strong here over the last year as well.

If you look at the markets business Tom Montag and his team have done a good job reducing assets and lower their risk and still generating relatively stable revenue. Despite the recent market challenge we remain quite profitable in this business and well-positioned around the globe with both a strong FICC and equity platform.

As we step back we remain focused on our core customer strategy. We continue to invest in the future even as we continue to address the legacy issues of the past. We have been able to grow even as the operating and economic environment remains in a low growth mode.

Our model is solid but there is still plenty of work to do but also there's plenty of opportunity ahead for us. Overall I'm pleased with the progress we made in 2015 and we have more to do in 2016.

In 2016 you should expect us to continue to focus on responsible growth. We'll continue to drive the investments made in the franchise to deliver the value to you as shareholders. We'll continue our sharp focus on risk management and we'll continue our cost discipline as we look to continue to improve return on capital metrics of our Company.

With that let me hand it over to Paul.

PAUL DONOFRIO, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian, good morning everyone. Starting on slide 5 we present a summary of the income statement returns for this quarter as well as the fourth quarter of last year which had similar seasonal aspects.

We earned $3.3 billion in the quarter compared to earnings of $3.1 billion in 4Q 2014. Earnings per diluted share this quarter were $0.28, up 12% versus a year ago. Results include two significant charges that were previously announced and impacted EPS by $0.06.

First, we recorded a pretax charge of $612 million associated with trust preferred securities which phased out of Tier 2 capital at the end of 2015. Second, we had a tax charge of $290 million associated with the UK tax changes that were enacted during the quarter. Lastly, we had a few other items that benefited EPS this quarter by a penny on a net basis.

These included a negative net DVA impact in sales and trading that was more than offset by positive impacts of market-related adjustments in net interest income and some one-off tax benefits. Revenue on an FTE basis was $19.8 billion this quarter, up 4% from Q4 2014. Expenses were $13.9 billion, approximately $300 million or 2% lower than a year ago driven by good expense discipline across the Company.

We also provide returns of a few other metrics on this page. I would remind you that client activity and revenue in our global market segment tend to be lower or lowest in the fourth quarter, affecting returns and other statistics.

Lastly, as many of you are aware there was a recent accounting change that requires certain unrealized debit valuation adjustments to be recorded directly to OCI rather than through the P&L. We early adopted this change, effective as of the beginning of 2015. The slides and the supplemental earnings material that present 2015 results have been adjusted.

Turning to slide 6 and focusing on the balance sheet, we grew deposits by $35 billion from Q3 and we used these increased deposits to fund responsible loan growth. In total assets declined $9 billion as increases in loans and security balances of $30 billion were more than offset by reductions in trading-related assets and cash.

Liquidity rose to just over $500 billion, a record level and time to required funding remains over three years. Tangible common equity of $162 billion improved modestly from Q3 as earnings were offset by both the return of $1.3 billion in capital to common shareholders and negative OCI driven by security values. Tangible book value per share increased to $15.62, another new record high.

Turning to regulatory metrics, we began reporting regulatory capital under the advanced approaches for the first time this quarter. On a CET1 transition ratio under Basel III, ended the quarter at 10.2% and really has no comparable metric as transition ratios in prior periods were reported under the standardized approach with lower RWA levels.

On a fully phased-in basis, CET1 capital improved modestly to $154.1 billion. Under the advanced approaches compared to Q3 2015 pro forma estimate the CET1 ratio increased slightly to 9.8%. RWA was essentially flat as growth from commercial exposures was mostly offset by lower activity and balance sheet levels in our global market segment.

We also provide our capital metrics under the standardized approach. Here our CET1 ratio was flat at 10.8% with modest improvements in capital, offset by modest increase in RWA. In terms of the supplementary leverage ratios we estimate that as of 12/31 we continue to exceed US rules applicable beginning in 2018 at both parent and bank.

Turning to slide 7, we had strong loan and deposit growth this quarter. Recorded loans on an end-of-period basis increased $15 billion from Q3. This is the third consecutive quarter of recorded increases in total loan balances.

We continue to see solid loan demand in our primary lending businesses, partially offset by runoff in LAS and all other. Excluding declines in LAS and all other, ending loans in our primary lending segments increased $22 billion from Q3.

$8 billion of this increase was in consumer loans as GWIM increased mortgages and security-based lending. Consumer banking also saw good loan growth in mortgages as well as vehicle loans.

We also had some seasonal growth in credit card partially offset by selling $1.7 billion of card receivables at the end of the quarter. Commercial loans were $15 billion spread across multiple industry groups.

Turning to deposits on many basis they reached nearly $1.2 trillion this quarter, growing $78 billion, or 7% in Q4 2014. Growth was solid across the franchise. Consumer led the way, growing 9% year over year while both global banking and GWIM each grew at a 6% pace.

Turning to asset quality on slide 8, while still strong we did see net charge-offs increase modestly from recent levels. Total net charge-offs increased $212 million versus Q3. $144 million was from consumer items previously reserved for and lower recoveries on the sale of NPLs in the fourth quarter versus Q3.

We also saw a $73 million increase in net charge-offs from our energy portfolio. Outside of these two areas net charge-offs were stable compared to Q3. Provision of $810 million in Q4 was relatively flat with Q3.

Reserve releases in consumer real estate and credit card were partially offset by reserve builds in commercial which were driven by increases in criticized exposures as well as loan growth. Reserve releases excluding the previously reserved items I mentioned earlier were roughly $200 million.

On slide 9 we provide credit quality data on our consumer portfolio. Net charge-offs increased $137 million.

The two items of note that make up this increase were reserved for in prior periods and did not impact provision expense in the quarter. $119 million was the result of collateral valuation adjustments.

In addition we had some small charge-offs associated with our 2014 DOJ settlement. We expect to complete our commitments under this settlement in the first half of 2016.

Adjusting for these two items consumer net charge-offs were relatively flat versus Q3. Delinquency levels and NPLs continued to decline and reserve coverage remains strong.

Moving to the commercial side, on slide 10, net charge-offs increased $75 million primarily from losses in our energy portfolio. Outside of the energy portfolio, commercial losses remain very low.

Given the focus on the impacts of low oil prices on companies in the energy sector we want to spend a minute to describe our energy portfolio and provide some perspective. The pie chart breakdown our $21 billion of utilized exposure to the energy sector. This represents a little more than 2% of our total loan balances.

Within that $21 billion, $8.3 billion or less than 1% of total loans is loans to borrowers in two subsectors, exploration and production as well as oilfield services. We consider these two subsectors to have significantly higher risk than the rest of the energy portfolio.

Of our $8.3 billion utilized exposure to these two higher risk subsectors $2.9 billion has already been downgraded to criticized. So 35% of the higher risk subsectors has already been downgraded to reservable criticized exposure, thereby driving a portion of the reserves. And allowances for loan losses for the entire energy portfolio is approximately $500 million, or 6% of the funded exposure of these two subsectors.

Companies in the vertically integrated subsector represent $5.8 billion of the energy portfolio. We believe this subsector has a better ability to withstand lower oil prices. Nearly 100% of the companies have a market cap of $10 billion or more or they are sovereign owned and the average company has a market cap greater than $60 billion.

We believe the remaining exposure in refining and marketing as well as other is also less dependent on oil prices. As part of our standard risk management process we stress test our credit portfolios including our pension portfolio. Our stress analysis of the energy portfolio includes various sustained low oil prices over extended periods.

As an example, if we held oil prices at $30 per barrel for nine quarters we estimate our potential losses on the energy portfolio would be roughly $700 million. In energy and across our commercial sector we continue to support clients while managing lending limits and actively engaging with stressed borrowers.

Before moving from asset quality I want to refocus on total provision expense and how one should think about it over the next couple of quarters. As we continue to assess and react to future changes in the energy sector we could see lumpiness that could potentially drive provision expense over $900 million.

Turning to net interest income on slide 11, on an FTE basis NII was $10 billion increasing roughly $300 million from Q3. NII included a negative $612 million charge associated with three trust preferred securities. These securities were scheduled to be completely phased out of Tier 2 capital as of Jan 1 and with 7% to 8% coupons became expensive debt.

NII also included $116 million of positive market-related adjustments to the amortization of bond premiums under FAS 91. NII excluding market-led adjustments and the charge on the trust preferred improved $188 million from Q3 to $10.5 billion. This improvement was driven by increased deposit balances which we used to fund growth in loans and securities.

As we move into the first quarter, please note the following. First, we will have one less day of interest. Second, recent changes by Congress will lower the amount of dividends we receive from the FRB by approximately $50 million a quarter.

Having said that, if the forward curve is realized and if we have some modest deposit and loan growth we still expect to show some growth in NII in Q1 2016 relative to our adjusted NII of $10.5 billion.

With regard to asset sensitivity, at the end of the fourth quarter out overall asset sensitivity decreased slightly as a result of increases in long-end rates as well as security balances. As of 12/31 and instantaneous 100 basis point parallel increase in rates is estimated to increase NII by approximately $4.3 billion over the subsequent year. A little more than half of that improvement comes from the increases in short-end rates and a little less than one-quarter of the benefit comes from market-related adjustments.

Turning to expenses on slide 12 non-interest expense was $13.9 billion in Q4, $300 million lower than Q4 2014. This was driven by good expense discipline across the Company.

Litigation expense was a little higher this quarter at $428 million, exhibiting some lumpiness as we work to resolve legacy issues. Keep in mind that annual litigation expense decreased from $16.4 billion in 2014 to $1.2 billion in 2015. Legacy asset servicing costs excluding litigation finished Q4 a little better than our target of $800 million.

As we have said our net goal is $500 million per quarter. Expenses excluding litigation and LAS were $12.6 billion and represents the fifth quarter out of the past six below $12.8 billion. We continue to look for ways to streamline and simplify how we do business.

This is important because it allows us to invest in growth while maintaining relatively flat core expenses in a sluggish revenue environment. Importantly, this relative flatness continued even as we invested in additional sales professionals and improved technology.

Looking towards expenses in 2016 let me remind you in the first quarter we will record as normal approximately $1 billion in cost for retirement eligible incentives. In addition, the first quarter typically includes seasonally higher payroll taxes of roughly $300 million. And if we experience additional rebound in Q1 sales and trading revenue this would also increase incentives and other associated costs.

Turning to the business segments and starting with consumer banking on slide 13. Consumer earned $1.8 billion, 9% greater than Q4 last year. These results reflect good operating leverage on increased customer activity. The segment generated a strong 25% return on allocated capital.

Revenue of $7.8 billion was up modestly from Q4 2014. Net interest income benefited from higher deposit and loan levels. Non-interest income was down slightly from lower mortgage banking.

The decline in mortgage revenue reflects selling fewer nonperforming loans as we hold more on our balance sheet, in addition with the absence of $30 million in quarterly revenue from the Q3 sale of the small noncore appraisal business. Expenses declined 2% from Q4 2014 as the savings from reduction in financial centers and personnel more than offset higher product cost and investment in increased sales specialists.

The cost of operating deposit franchise remains low at 177 basis points. Operating leverage drove improvements in the efficiency ratio to 56% as we continue to experience shifts in customer activity away from branches towards self-serve options. Mobile banking users increased to 18.7 million which is up 13% from Q4 2014 and deposit transactions from these devices now represent 15% of deposit transactions.

Slide 14 presents consumers progress across a number of customer activities. I would highlight activities in three areas: loans, deposits and brokerage assets where we continue to grow responsibly. These three products are at the core of our rewards program where we share benefits with customers who deepen relationships with us.

Average loans grew $12 billion from Q4 2014 in mortgages and vehicle lending. Ending deposit growth was strong at $48 million or 9% from Q4 while the rate paid decline to 4 basis points.

Regarding brokerage assets, Merrill Edge asset levels of $123 billion are up 8% from last year even with declines in equity markets this year. Total mortgage production was up 13% from Q4 last year and stable with Q3. Looking at card activity which includes GWIM card issuance was strong at 1.3 million.

Average US card balances of $89 billion were down modestly from last year but up seasonally from Q3 2015. US card credit quality was strong as net charge-offs remained at decade-low levels of 2.5% with a risk-adjusted margin of 9.4%. Credit spending volumes finished on a high note as Q4 spending was 5% higher than last year, outpacing what we believe to be total market spend levels.

Debit spending was strong as well. For example, on Christmas Eve day we saw record debit card spending of more than $1 billion.

In our consumer segment we expect technology adoption by customers to continue to be a cornerstone of not only improved customer satisfaction but also efficiency gains and operating leverage. The latest examples of this are around digital selling and appointment setting.

Digital sales in the fourth quarter were up more than 31% from last year. Digital appointments reached more than 16,000 in a recent week. We expect these adoption trends to play an increasing role in future performance and customer satisfaction as we continue to advance online and mobile capabilities.

Turning to slide 15, global wealth and investment management produced earnings of $614 million. Results were down from Q4 last year driven by lower transactional revenue and the impact of the market decline on asset management fees. Transactional revenue continues to be impacted by the shifting of activity from brokerage to managed relationships as well as market uncertainty.

NII benefit followed loan growth and solid deposit growth but was offset by the Company's ALM activities, leaving NII relatively flat with Q4 2014. Non-interest expense was modestly higher than the year-ago period. Investment in client facing professionals continues while lower revenue caused a decline in incentive compensation that was more than offset by amortization of stock awards issued in prior periods.

Pretax margin was 21%, down from Q4 2014. Beginning in the first quarter of 2016, we will benefit from lower expense resulting from the completion of amortization related to advisor retention awards given at the time of the Merrill Lynch merger.

Moving to slide 16, despite the volatility in market levels we continue to see solid client activity and we continue to invest in the business growing wealth advisors 5% from Q4 last year. Long-term AUM flows were $7 billion and remain positive for the 26th consecutive quarter. Deposit flows were strong growing end-of-period balances $15 billion from Q3.

By the way, this may have been driven in part by client concerns with market volatility. Loans continue to grow, improving 10% from last year. This is the 23rd consecutive quarter of average loan growth in this segment.

Turning to slide 17, global banking earned $1.4 million, down 9% from Q4 2014 but still generating a 60% return on allocated capital. The earnings decline from Q4 was driven by higher provision expense. Provision expense was up $264 million from Q4 last year driven by higher energy-related charge-offs and reserve build to loan growth and energy-related risk.

Revenue increased modestly from Q4 2014 while expense declined modestly. Driven by higher loan balances NII improved despite spread compression and the allocation of the Company's ALM activities including higher liquidity cost. Non-interest income benefited from higher treasury services revenue, higher leasing revenue and a small gain from the sale of a foreclosed property, partially offset by lower IB fees.

Looking at trends on slide 18, in comparing to Q4 2014 IB fees of $1.3 billion were down 17% as leveraged finance and equity issuance was partially offset by advisory fees that were at second-highest level since the Merrill merger. From a marketshare perspective we maintained our number three global fee ranking.

Looking at the balance sheet loans on average were $320 billion, up 12% year over year. The growth was broad-based across C&I, real estate and leasing. We continue to experience some spread compression although it has moderated relative to a year ago.

Asset quality of new loans was consistent with the overall portfolio. On deposits we saw good performance with average deposits increasing by $16 billion or 5% over Q4 2014. The mix of these deposits remains very good with less than 5% classified as 100% runoff balances.

Switching to global markets on slide 19 and comparing to Q4 last year we are pleased with the results here given challenging market conditions as the teams increase revenue while using lower asset levels and less VAR. Global markets earned approximately $200 million but we think one should consider results excluding DVA. On that basis adjusted earnings were $308 million which was relatively flat to Q4 2014 on the similarly adjusted basis.

Note that our net deviated loss this quarter was $198 and compared to a loss of $626 million in Q4 2014 which included an initial FTE adjustment. Total revenue excluding DVA improved $313 million, or 10% from the fourth quarter last year on improved FICC sales and trading.

Outside of sales and trading global market share of lower investment banking fees was offset by a gain on the sale of an equity investment. Non-interest expense increased 9% in line with revenue improvement.

Moving to trends on the next slide and focusing on the components of our sales and trading performance, sales and trading revenue up $2.6 billion excluding net DVA was up 11.5% in Q4 2014. Compared to Q4 last year FICC sales and trading of $1.8 billion improved 20%, reflecting improvements across most products notably in rates and credit-related products.

Equity trading of $882 million declined 3%, reflecting lower client activity. Average trading-related asset levels were down 9% in Q4 2014 while VAR was down 14%.

Turning to legacy assets and servicing on slide 21, this segment lost roughly $350 million in line with the prior year. Focus areas here are mortgage banking income, the number of delinquent loans and expenses all compared to Q4 2014.

First, mortgage banking income which improved slightly was driven by three factors. Rep and warranty provisioning improved $237 million to a provision of $9 million this quarter. That favorability was offset by a decline in servicing fees of $108 million as the units serviced declined as well as a decline in net MSR hedge performance of $152 million.

Next, the number of first mortgage loans that we service that are 60 days delinquent continued to decline and are now at 103,000 units. And last, the team did an excellent job lowering expenses. Excluding litigation we achieved our goal of $800 million, moving costs down $309 million or 28%.

On slide 22 we show all other which reported a loss of $289 million. This was an improvement of $86 million from Q4 2014. This loss was driven by the $612 million pretax charge associated with our trust preferred as well as the impact on the UK tax law changes.

This was partially offset by gains on debt security sales as well as reserve releases on consumer real estate loans booked in all other.

A comment or two on taxes before wrapping up. The Company's effective tax rate for the quarter excluding the UK tax charge was 25%, reflecting reoccurring tax benefits plus a few small one-off benefits. We would expect the tax rate to be in the low 30s for 2016 excluding unusual items.

Before closing I want to cover our early adoption of DVA accounting in more detail. In January of this year the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an update to allow early adoption of a new rule regarding recognition of DVA on financial liabilities from changes in our own credit spreads.

The update means these types of debit valuation adjustments will now flow through OCI instead of the income statement. We believe this change makes our earnings comparisons more meaningful and easier to understand, therefore we adopted early.

We restated all prior years, excuse me, we restated all propose this year per the FASB rules and those numbers are contained in the supplemental package. This has no impact on capital as it moved dollars between retained earnings and OCI but it did impact revenue earnings taxes and EPS in the first three quarters of 2015.

The changes reduced previously reported EPS by approximately $0.02 each in Q1, Q2 and Q3. This accounting standard adoption did not impact DVA on derivatives which continued to flow through trading account profits.

Okay, let me conclude by offering a few takeaways. Although the US economy is improving slowly revenue growth remains challenging. This quarter we continued our progress on those things we can control and drive.

These include delivering for clients and customers within our risk framework and driving client and customer activity that will result in sustainable profits and returns. Our results reflect this focus. We maintained a strong foundation of capital and liquidity.

We grew loans, deposits and investment flows. We continue to invest in our franchise by adding sales professionals and improved technology. Our strength, global capability and experience allowed us to deliver for clients in a challenging market environment.

And we did all this while closely managing expenses. With that we will open it up to Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Can you talk about the outlook for the core costs beyond some of the lumpy items in 1Q?

And then specifically maybe comment on how you feel like your markets business is sized. We've obviously seen some cost savings announcements at your US and non-US peers. I want to get a sense of how you feel you're positioned for the markets?

PAUL DONOFRIO: This quarter, the fourth quarter I think represents as I said in the comments the fifth quarter out of six that we've been below $12.8 billion. As you know I think we've been talking about maintaining core expenses below $13 billion, so we feel really good about our progress.

I have to remind everybody that we're maintaining those core expenses at those levels while we're investing in front office professionals while we're investing in technology, while we're absorbing the natural increase in pay for our employees and fraud cost and CCAR costs and other things. So I think we feel good about the work we're doing there. In terms of global markets what was the question?

MATT O'CONNOR: Just in terms of the staffing and the positioning there how you feel for I don't know about the current environment but just not bouncing back in a big, big way. And obviously we're seeing reductions being announced at some of your US and non-US peers. So how are you feeling about the sizing of your business for the environment you expect?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Matt, in the fourth quarter we did reduce headcount in the business, the markets businesses and the related capital markets business. We didn't make a big announcement but that led to the $130 million in severance in the fourth-quarter numbers that you see. So we will continue to adjust that headcount. Tom and his team will continue to adjust it but they made an adjustment in headcount in the fourth quarter, just didn't make quite the press other people's did.

PAUL DONOFRIO: The only thing I'd add, Matt, is my focus was on core expenses. We're going to see total expenses I think continue to come down as we work on LAS and continue to hopefully see some moderation on legal expense.

MATT O'CONNOR: And just on the timing of the LAS getting to that below $500 million you did disclose a big drop in the headcount if we look year over year and obviously there's delay in terms of costing [self] coming to down but what's the timing of getting to that $500 million or below?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I think we've made great progress in terms of getting expenses down. I think we started at what, $3.1 billion quarters ago but we've made great progress getting down to $800 million.

Our net milestone is $500 million per quarter. That's going to be a little bit harder, as you get lower and lower it's a little bit more unpredictable. And so we're not really giving a target at this time but we're going to get there as soon as we can.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: You should expect us to make good progress, Matt, towards this year. And so as you look towards the end of the year we should be getting there.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. I just want to dig in on a couple of things, one was on energy since it's the flavor of the day.

You know you gave a lot of color there and you indicated that those $30 holds for nine quarters, that's a loss of $700 million. I just wanted to understand is that already reserved for or that's over and above what you've reserved for?

And then maybe you could give us an even more bearish case, if we go below $30 what you've got baked in? Because I don't think it's linear, I just want to understand how you're thinking about it.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. Well as we said in the comments we've got reserves against that energy portfolio of $500 million. That's 6% of the high risk subsectors and we develop reserves on an incurred basis.

We develop them by looking at loss given default, probability of default, exposure to default. We go loan by loan. We have a lot of imprecision, other factors that we look at for imprecision and we put judgment on all that.

One of the things we look at when we come up with our judgment of what we should be is our stress testing. And so that's how that gets factored in to our reserve which again has to be on an incurred basis.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. So when you indicated that if $30 holds for nine quarters your model suggests a loss of $700 million. That's already reserved for or that's on top of what you already have reserved?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: In part, Betsy, because the idea is you can only incur for what you see through today. In terms of the operating structure of these companies and the asset-based lending, these are asset-based loans, derivative-based loans. So they've ratcheted down based on price but at year-end you're only reserving for what you see today.

If you're nine quarters from now and oil is still at that price you'd have to have it reserved for what's left of the portfolio of the exposures. But coming down it would come down during those nine quarters by the losses you took at least in resolving those credits. So it's in part covered but not fully because that's an estimate of a future that as Paul said it's an incurred view of the portfolio.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, I get that.

PAUL DONOFRIO: The other way to think about it is we've got a $500 million. As we go, theoretically you go through the nine quarters if that $700 million were to come true if our model was perfect it would go against that model $500 million but you'd be building reserves as you went through that process.

So if you told me what you wanted to end the nine quarters at, if you wanted to end at $500 million you can do the math. If you wanted to end at more or less it's going to be more or less in terms of you kind of have to build.

BETSY GRASECK: And then could you talk a little bit about the reserve release that's still possible from the other portfolios? You had a $200 million reserve release this past quarter. Just wondering what the legs are on that?

We've seen other institutions essentially finish up their reserve release. I know you had a big legacy book, so maybe there's a little more legs there. Just wanted to understand how you're thinking about the trajectory there.

PAUL DONOFRIO: I think you've got it. I think we have a legacy, we have a large legacy portfolio on the consumer side. As we continue to work through that and if home prices continue to stay where there or improve, the economy stays where it are or improve, I think you're going to continue to see reserves from us in 2016 or reserve releases I should say from us in 2016 but they are going to moderate from what they have been in the past.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So there's still some legs but at a decelerating pace?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, some of that swings over to the commercial book as you saw this quarter. So we have come down from a lot of reserve releases last year, I think it's 800 million or so in the fourth quarter, 700 million or 800 million or something down to 200 million, a couple of hundred million. And you'd expect that to mitigate during the course of 2016.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, and we've built reserve in commercial.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning, Paul. I was recalling I think you had for a goal this year to generate positive operating leverage. I was wondering how you feel about the ability to achieve that, what kind of revenue environment are you planning for and how will you manage expenses to try to get some positive operating leverage this year?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I think we feel good about the operating leverage we achieved in 2015. You can see that with the revenue growth relative to the EPS growth and I think we're looking to continue that trend.

We got hopefully a little bit of a tailwind here on rates. We're going to continue to manage expenses carefully.

So in terms of our EPS growth in 2016 we don't give estimates but in terms of our EPS growth in 2016, I think it will be more of the same. Revenue growth with some hopefully expense discipline that will get us some operating leverage.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then Brian, could you talk a little bit about what your goals will be with your 2016 CCAR submission? Are you looking to make some progress on both the dividend and buyback potentially and if you maybe could share some thoughts about that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: John, we haven't seen the scenarios yet and stuff like that so I think it's probably premature to discuss that. Our goal is long term is to return more and more capital to shareholders through dividends and stock buybacks.

At this price obviously stock buybacks are favored. But when we see the scenario and play that out it would be getting ahead of the process to talk about it today.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and Paul, one quick follow-up on the NII, is there a benefit from the paydown of trust preferreds that you're get in 2016? And is that why you're able to grow the core NII a little bit in 2016?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I wouldn't say that's why but obviously there's a benefit from paying off those trust preferreds. They had I think it was $175 million per quarter -- I've got that right? Yes.

And so there's a benefit there. The way I would think about those is we're not going to, quote, replace them because they don't count toward our regulatory capital, so why would we replace them?

We're going to have a capital structure that meets our regulatory requirements which requires us to have a certain amount of CET1. We're going to have the appropriate amount of preferred and subject and of course we have to meet the TLAC requirements. So that's how I would think about it.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And so it's really just the loan growth and pretty stable rates driving some core NII growth?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: John, if you look at it what global is affecting us 2013, 2014 was we're continuing to run off portfolios that have yield to them. And obviously the reinvestment rates on the investment side of the house as we ran those off were flattish. That's kind of all run through the system.

So now what you're seeing is $80 billion a period deposit growth from fourth quarter last year to this year. And the overall pay rate for that is in the low single-digit basis points. All core, all in consumer, wealth management and driven by middle-market and the banking business.

So that's the deposit funding side. And the asset build is now good core loans that have reasonable yields to them and you start to see it and then pick up just a hair from that. And we expect it to drive in our core as long as the economy continues to grow a couple percent.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Hey, John, just real quick I want to correct one thing I said. The $175 million is full-year.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR & Company.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Thank you very much. On your NPAs you have really good disclosure, you're getting it down to 103,000. Did you sell any this quarter or was that all workouts through your servicing?

PAUL DONOFRIO: We sold a little bit but not as much as we had in the past.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Largely Paul, that's been, it's very incremental at this point on the sales side.

PAUL MILLER: And then, at this point when do you think you can get that down to I guess it's not a normal level because you're just going to run this whole portfolio off. Could you have any idea when that would be over with?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, Paul, the 103,000 is of the total portfolio. So there's a normal piece in that and an abnormal piece in it. But we should be driving it down to the 60 days, 103,000 is across both portfolios.

But that number should come in I don't know pick a percent, percent and a half of the service loan units. So it's still got some room to go.

And that's the key that I think Matt pointed out earlier is the FTE headcount in LAS we had a 2,000 person headcount drop in the Company overall in the fourth quarter, about half LAS, half the rest of the Company. The LAS percentage rate was 8 percentage points not annualized for the quarter at 30%. It's still dropping its headcount but it's getting flatter and now we've got all the old cost to drive out of the portfolio.

So in terms of thinking about real estate and old systems and stuff and so that's what takes a little more time now than just the people cost.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hey, good morning. Maybe just a quick question on deposit behavior. Since the rate hike have you seen anything unusual? I would assume it would be more on the institutional side where you would see movement at this point.

And then maybe you can give some update on how you're thinking about the deposit betas this year.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. The short answer is that we have seen no real movement.

Of course we're very focused on making sure that we pay an appropriate deposit rate but so far there's been no movement. We have been modeling deposit betas on our interest-bearing deposits in the high 40s.

JIM MITCHELL: And do you still think that make sense or do you think that's relatively conservative?

PAUL DONOFRIO: We think that makes sense. And given the quality of our deposit base as Brian walked through already the portion we have in our consumer and GWIM franchises, the number of primary checking accounts, even on the wholesale side if you look at our deposits less than 5% of them are 100% runoff deposits.

So we feel good about our $1.2 trillion in deposits. We took this year the deposit rating came down another basis point to 4 basis points for all deposit. So we feel good about that modeling.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And Jim, remember that modeling is not 40% of everything, it's a lot nothing and a lot less for the first couple of bumps. So I think that's what you're thinking about. So if we continue along with one or two rate rises there will be a lot more capture then as it gets into the higher --

JIM MITCHELL: Right, it will be more back-end weighted.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Exactly. I think that's what you're asking.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay and just one last question, maybe on the expense side, if we look at, I mean you guys have done a good job, but if you look at your core expenses normalized for all the puts and takes it still seems like your efficiency ratio would be sort of in the 63%, 64% range and a lot of your peers are well below 60%. Is this sort of you grow into the improving efficiency ratio with the revenues as you reinvest or is there do you think you can get there more quickly? Just trying to get a sense of how you get the trajectory into more in line with the peer group on the efficiency ratio side?

PAUL DONOFRIO: If you look at the full-year 2015 and you do those puts and takes with the things that we've talked about through the year and you make any sort of a reasonable guess as to the progress we're going to make around LAS, we're in the 65%-ish range, we're going to continue to focus on growing responsibly and working on our total expenses as we talked earlier. And so with a little help from growth and some more work on expenses we think we're in shooting range.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: As we model ourselves and look at sort of the peers, so the average efficiency by business units and model against our business mix we're going to be a little higher because the high-level wealth management in our business relative to the total. But look, three things on expenses.

Number one, we'll continue to drive it them and funding all the growth and FTE for the sales side we have 6% growth in consumer FTE sales side, 3% wealth management, maybe 8% in global banking year over year. So we're paying for all that, paying for all the incentives attached to it, paying for all the infrastructure attached to it. So we're going to continue to drive it down.

So just rest assured that is. And then we are not satisfied in the mid-60s efficiency ratio of the Company and we should be able to drive that down and it will come from both just hard work and as you say with a rate lift and stuff which affects -- we're still affected a little bit more by low rate structure than other people we should pick it back up. But don't think we're complacent on this.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, I appreciate it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi, thanks. So I think you put the heat on a little bit on loan growth over the last couple of quarters. And if you look at lending in your primary lending segments it's picked up and I think that's good.

The question I have is with new information that we have, I mean the markets digesting and anticipating I don't know if I'll call it a recession but a lot of fear around recession on lower oil and China-related fears. The question I have is if you look at the core loan growth are you still okay running it at this level? Do you feel like your customer base that you're making these new loans to are a little more insulated to the world that the market is fearful of?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Outside of energy we are not seeing asset quality change nor are we seeing a reduction in appetite for credit. I would remind everybody that we were very, very focused on our customer framework and our risk framework. But within that framework we continue to see a lot of opportunities to help our customers grow their businesses.

If you look at this quarter and you just focus on the core we had 3% quarter-over-quarter growth or an annualized growth rate of a little over 12% or $22 billion. I'm not going to sit here and tell you that's what it's going to be next quarter. But we're not seeing material decline in conversations with our clients about how to help them grow.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think to give a additional color if you think about it if you go back a couple of years we grew the international business because we had to round out that franchise. We sort of slowed that down, 24 months ago that started to drop in terms of growth rate. And so because of the client selection criteria there is very high in clients, multinational clients, etc.

But we slowed it down just to keep the Company in balance and that's been our watchword. If you think about on the consumer no subprime, no lowering FICO scores. If you look at the coming on FICOs they are higher in the portfolio still which is almost hard to believe, the charge-offs, delinquencies in both home-equity, delinquencies across the last four years and continue to get lower every year.

This year was the lowest they've been all the way back a long time in both credit card and home-equities. And if you look at the client selection in the US a couple of things. One is we're adding officers in the middle-market business but they are going after our target clients and this is not go find new industries, etc.

So whether it's the way we lend to commercial real estate which is very high-end real estate developers, etc., the way we lead in middle-market is very strong. So as you look across this client selection in the middle-market business has been strong.

The best (technical difficulty) that we're seeing is things in our business banking, small business portfolios. We're actually starting to see growth there, again sticking to our credit risk which is the first time in many years because we had to run off some stuff that came in through LaSalle, Merrill and everything else that we're finally seeing nominal growth.

And so I think this client selection we slowed down international, it sort of always watching and in fact using your stress test to make sure you stay balanced. And if you look at us we feel we're pretty balanced between the consumer and commercial sort of 50/50. And then within the consumer we're really sticking to our knitting which is very strong, high-quality, both creditworthy borrowers.

GLENN SCHORR: Great. One follow-up on the FA growth you noted a 5% year on year, I'm just curious there's not a heck of a lot of core growth in that business. I'm just curious how much is coming from your training programs versus recruiting both traditional and nontraditional sources?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's coming from both. The reality is that the number one issue they face in the wealth investment and brokerage services revenue line is the decline in transactional revenue.

And it has gone from two years ago probably $600 million a quarter even in non-robust market times down to I don't know $300 million, $400 million. That is hard to make up on the annuity piece. Even though they are having record net flows it's just the revenue rate on that is less.

So that's the factor. So it's not to do with really recruiting. The production per FA continues to be solid at 1 million-plus.

It's really that core fundamental issue that they are facing. And that transition is what we're all going through. It's getting to the point where it's becoming less material and i.e., less material to the total revenue line from the transaction side.

PAUL DONOFRIO: On the other hand I would just remind everybody that we've got significant positive loan base in that business. And so again if rates rise we're going to see some benefit there.

GLENN SCHORR: All right, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES CO., LTD.: Hi, good morning. So actually I had a quick follow-up to the topic Glenn was just addressing.

Relating to GWIM and just some of the margin pressures that we've been seeing over the last couple of quarters I wanted to get a better sense as to how much of that do you think is cyclical versus secular, whether it be DoL-related pressures or just intensifying competition for advisors? And along those same lines whether a 30% margin target is still achievable once we get to a more favorable rate backdrop?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Let me start with the last one and pick up on just some comments Brian made again. The decline in the margin has been because of decline in transactional revenues.

In addition over the last couple of quarters there's been a lot of market volatility. Markets have ended down in certain months and that affects what we make on asset management.

We would hope in a better market environment we would see some improvement in some aspects of the transactional business because there's a lot of selling of mutual fund products and other products there. And then again as I point out we've got a business here with close to $140 billion in loans and $240 billion to $260 billion-ish of deposits and as rates move we're going to start seeing some benefit from that on which the payout ratio is quite different than on the more traditional asset management products.

So that really I do think is the revenue story that will affect margins. And again in the first quarter of this year we're going to see $100 million reduction in expenses because of the runoff of the compensation programs we've put in place around the Merrill merger.

So I think that's what I would say about the margins. What was the second part of the question?

STEVEN CHUBAK: Just about to what extent if you could at least segregate the secular versus cyclical headwind components on the revenue side? But I think that you adequately addressed that in your response.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So I think people ought to think about GWIM, the margin has come down, we think it's flooring out here and it will start to pick back up in part because of some of the unfundamental changes in the ATP program running off and stuff. But we've invested in a PMD program. It cost a few hundred million dollars of drag to do that.

That's the right thing to actually build the advisor base over time and service the clients. And the team if you look at it underneath the US the flows and stuff are strong and the US trust business is having some of its best quarters ever just because of the difference that it didn't have the secular runoff you referred to in terms of the fee-based business.

So it's a good business, it does a good job with its clients. We expect more out of it. And that's the job for John and Keith and Andy and Terry going forward.

STEVEN CHUBAK: All right. Thanks, Brian. And maybe just switching over to the credit side, I appreciate the detailed disclosure you guys have been giving on the energy book and was just hoping you could provide both exposure and reserve levels, maybe some other areas of the commodities complex, specifically metals and mining.

PAUL DONOFRIO: We feel good about our metals and mining exposure. It's about $8 billion but most of that exposure is much more short dated and much more collateral. So we feel good about that exposure.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay. And then just as a follow-up to the initial provision guidance you had given, thinking about it from a modeling perspective is the right way for us to be thinking about the provision rate for 2016 taking that $800 million to $900 million quarterly run rate plus whatever additional energy driven reserve building we should be contemplating which presumably is incremental.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, that's not a bad way to think about it. Again if you remember our guidance from last quarter we said $800 million to $900 million for the first two quarters of 2016. And the way I would think about those two quarters would be yes, we could see some lumpiness.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: But I think the one thing overall is that as you look at the question on the exposure that we're also paying close attention to is it sort of a demand or supply issue for oil prices. And if it's a supply issue that affects these companies and related companies and demand from.

But if it's a demand in the broadest context i.e., economies continue to slow down and that's the broader concern. So we're looking at not only the impact on all the portfolios thinking about who gets the benefits in our portfolio basis from low energy cost which are serious benefits to the consumers and to companies that consume energy versus those producing it.

So there's a balance here that we've got to think through. Right now it's pretty isolated the energy companies and even if you look at consumers who work for them in our basis by ZIP Code and unemployment levels and stuff we've seen relatively modest deterioration or none in the consumer side people employed in these businesses.

So I think as you think about it the real question is going to come down to for 2016 in terms of all our industry is are we in a demand-driven issue i.e., a general economic issue or is the United States going to plug along and if it does then I think Paul's guidance is the right one. If you're in the supply it's all going to be localized on these industries.

PAUL DONOFRIO: It's not demand, it's again worth emphasizing there are a lot of people who are helped by low prices. That helps our asset quality not only on the consumer side but also in places like India and manufacturers all around the world.

STEVEN CHUBAK: All right, got it, guys. Very helpful. Thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thanks very much. I was just wondering if you could help me think through a little bit your GAAP and risk-weighted assets over the first half of the year given the growth dynamics that are pretty robust and some of the runoff and then also some of the changes that are going through on the RWA calculations.

PAUL DONOFRIO: So you're talking about going with the first half of 2016?

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Correct.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Well, on a standardized basis I think you're going to see RWA trend up if it we're able to grow deposits and loans. On an advanced basis there's all sorts of puts and takes there.

I don't think you'll see as much growth as you would on a standardized basis -- on an advanced basis, yes, as you would on a standardized basis as we continue to work on our RWA.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: And so what are the implications of that then for your regulatory capital ratios?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Well we need to get to more inventory target. From a CET1 under an advanced basis our goal is to get to 10%-plus a buffer by 2019.

So we're at 9.8%. I feel like we have the time to do that.

We're certainly not going to need to take all that time. We would expect to get there soon. But it is impacted by changes in rates, changes in OCI.

We're hopefully returning capital. But we're not -- we feel like we're on track to get to 10% plus an appropriate buffer.

The only other thing I would add is we still have some opportunity to optimize RWA from an advanced perspective. That's in two fundamental areas. It's always stuff you can do in markets and other areas.

But in two fundamental areas, one is the extra RWA we got on the wholesale side when we exited parallel run. That's not a permanent thing. We need to work on our models, work with our regulators and hopefully over time we can make some improvements there.

The other one is operational risk. We have $500 billion of RWA for operational risk under the advanced approach. That is 25% more than the net highest bank and that operational risk is for businesses that we are no longer in.

It's for products we no longer sell. It's for a risk profile that we no longer tolerate. So again that will take time but that's another opportunity for us to lower RWA from an advanced perspective.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Thanks. Maybe if I can just sneak in one more. When you talk about an appropriate buffer are you thinking a method 1 or a method 2 as a baseline?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think -- the buffer to the capital?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, B3A.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We're basically thinking the buffer we need to be above the requirements, the 10%. We'd say 25 to 50 basis points would be where we're at.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks, good morning. Just a quick follow-up on the loan growth side, you talked about the credit quality underneath the commercial side. But after 13%, 14% loan growth year do you think you can maintain that type of pace of growth given some of the concerns we've seen underlying even if quality is holding up?

So just I guess your general outlook for loan growth rates. And can you match or maintain what you did last year? Thanks.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Look, I'm not sure we're in the business of giving guidance on loan growth we think we can grow. If you were looking for some perspective from us I wouldn't even call it guidance. Mid-single digit is what we hope we can accomplish.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Continue to be driven by commercial would you say?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I think it's going to continue to be driven by commercial but you're going to see growth in consumer as well.

KEN USDIN: Just a quick second one. You've been growing the mortgage business again. What's your outlook for continuing to take share in the mortgage business and have we seen the bottoming of results on the fee side of mortgage?

PAUL DONOFRIO: In our mortgage business I think we are focused on originating prime and sort of non-conforming loans. There's been good progress here I think if you look over the last year.

The number of non-conforming loans that we are originating has increased meaningfully and a reminder a that those loans we book on our balance sheet. So that's NBI when you're booking, when you're selling less loans it's going to affect your NBI income but it's going to come through the NIM on a more annualized basis.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: From a broader -- we decide the fees because of the geography and how the accounting works when you put I think 60%, 70% of loans on balance sheet. In terms of overall production we expect to continue to make progress because, and you can see that in the numbers, that we're going to as other people are flattening out we continue to have lots of opportunity with our core of customers.

A set amount of 10 still that are creditworthy in our customer base are still getting a mortgage elsewhere and that's what the team is chipping away at. And it's never going to be the hugest business of Bank of America compared to things like the Merrill Edge business in consumer, the credit card business and consumer. But we expect to get broader market share from each of the segments.

PAUL DONOFRIO: I think it's interesting I'm not going to sit here and tell you that it's directly 100% correlated, we've done all the work but we've added sales professionals in our branches. They are focused on originating mortgages that are more prime-oriented. We've got them working with our GWIM specialists.

That client group is generally more prime-oriented and we see progress. We see the prime loans growing.

KEN USDIN: Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Autonomous Research.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: Hi, good morning. I guess on commercial if you could follow up on the ex-energy comments, you know in your experience what are some of the best leading indicators for the commercial credit cycle and what kind of trends have you seen again ex-energy and those leading indicators over the past couple of months that gives you confidence that things are stable?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Well, I have to think about that. We spend a lot of time, our credit people do spend a lot of time just combing through that portfolio and looking at cash flows from the Company and making sure we understand the collateral, making sure we fully understand our structures. So I think it's a lot of blocking and tackling and talking to clients and making sure we understand what's going on with their businesses in terms of the energy portfolio.

I would emphasize again that outside of the energy portfolio we are not seeing movement in NPL and criticized assets. Our NPLs continue to come down.

BRIAN FORAN: And then if I could ask a follow-up along the same lines on the consumer side. I just two parts, one you made the point that even in energy-heavy geographies you're not seeing any adverse change in the consumer.

In part specifically just since it's such a big credit line are early delinquencies still coming in better-than-expected or are they stable or how would you characterize the current early delinquency trends? And then on home equity since again that's another big outsized portion of the reserve is there any update you can give us on how the first wave of HELOC recasts or switches to amortization schedules have performed versus what you had modeled?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. So in terms of card when we look at our credit losses they are at low points, historic low points and they've been bumping around at that level. We've seen a little bit of increase the last couple of quarters but that again I think is just a reflection of things just bumping around at really low levels.

In terms of the home equity and of draw based on the volume we've seen to date which we've seen a lot of volume the portfolio is performing in line with our expectations. And we continue to monitor the end of draw portfolio and continue to work with our customers to manage the risk.

I just would remind everybody that these borrowers have paid through the downturn and this portfolio continues to improve as home prices improved. The risk is an ongoing part of our reserve process and we think we're well-reserved.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Just on card and those 30 days delinquency or 90 they came down during the course of from the end of 2014 all the way through 2015 and in both cases is running at multiple-year lows in both percentage-wise and nominal amounts. So we're seeing no deterioration of credit in either of those, and the same with the home equities. It's just in home equities just have a little more cleanup because of the legacy portfolio in there.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

OPERATOR: And pardon the interruption. We lost Mr. Hawken.

(Operator Instructions) Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, I have one question for Paul, one for Brian. Paul, lower energy prices you said can help certain segments such as consumers.

Can you give any examples of that? And also on the energy topic, if oil stays at $30 then your provisions for energy would go up by how much? I didn't understand the answer from before.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Oil, let me take the last one first. So we've got a reserve on our energy portfolio of $500 million. That is 6% of those two subsectors that we think are high-risk and we have done modeling stress test modeling at various oil prices.

The one we've been talking about on this call has been at $30 and that's over nine quarters. And so if oil stayed at $30 for nine quarters we would think that our losses over those nine quarters would be $700 million.

Again that would go against the $500 million we already have reserved. And one would presume we would be building reserves during that time period to make up the difference.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So Mike, when you look at consumer benefits from the oil and gas just to give you a simple thing, if you look at our card base in the fourth quarter of 2015 the spending on debit and credit cards rose 4% from the fourth quarter of 2014. And if gas prices would have been stable it would have grown at 5.7%.

So what that means is consumers had effectively on that base of 1.7% that they received the benefit of year over year. If you translate that to dollars round numbers that's $20 million a day of less spending on gasoline by our consumers in our portfolios per day and from like $90 million down to $70 million-ish or something like that.

That is the benefit they get. So for a large number of consumers median income the cash flow increases and that gives them more money to spend.

MIKE MAYO: Do you think people are being too negative on the decline in oil prices? You're implying it has a nice stimulative effect. But people sure aren't thinking that these days.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think Mike it comes down to the question of whether you think this is a (inaudible) price is a reflection of our broader issue of growth in the economies or we're going to get slow growth 2.5% in the US and I guess 3.5% in the world. If you're going to get that in 2016 it's going to be isolated, the negative is going to be isolated to the oil companies and related commodity producers just because of a slow growth environment.

If you're saying there's going to be a much different economic scenario than so-called consensus predicts that's a broader based problem. But right now it's really an oversupply of oil driving prices down and that's impacting the people in the industry. And the rest of the consumers, I mean corporate customers and consumers that use oil and energy are getting a good benefit.

PAUL DONOFRIO: And Mike, the only thing I would say, Brian is spot on, if it's a demand issue we're going to see it in other parts of the economy. However, we have not seen that yet. We have not seen a change in our asset quality outside of energy.

MIKE MAYO: And then if I can shift gears, Brian, I know I've asked this question in other years but I know you're not satisfied with the mid-60s core efficiency ratio and I know you're not satisfied with a single-digit ROE. So what is your specific financial target for efficiency in ROE and what is your timeframe to get there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: As we've said we've ran about 9, adjusting for everything about 9.5 for the year. And return on tangible common equity we believe we have a path to get that to 12. Rates get us part of it and hard work on expenses and core revenue growth and driving gets us the rest of it and so an LAS expense drop-in.

We're chipping away at that and if you look from 2014 to 2015 we made a substantial step and we'll continue to drive away. We haven't put a specific timeframe on it. It's just a goal to keep driving and we'll drive beyond that.

On the efficiency it follows that as efficiency it follows that sort of map that right now we're operating 66%, 67%, 67% probably normalized for 2015. And between LAS we can drop that down to 65% and that's just hard work and we're grinding away at it every day. You're seeing loans grow, you're seeing deposits grow and so you should see an improvement in 2016.

MIKE MAYO: Any expense initiative plan, Paul, since you've had a couple of quarters now to take a look at that? Are we looking for like an extra $1 billion or I know kind of like a new BAC program or what are you thinking about there?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Expenses are on our mind every day at Bank of America. We have everybody focused on expense discipline. That's translating through our culture under our simplify and improve program where the teams are always coming up with ideas to make it simpler for our customers, make it simpler for our employees and improve the expenses of the Company.

That's how we're going to achieve our objectives around core expenses that we've talked about on this call. We're all very focused on expenses.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: It appears that we have no further questions at this time. I would like to return the program back to our hosts for any concluding remarks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you, everyone. We look forward to talk to you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's program. You may now disconnect your lines and everyone have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160120ec1j000p6
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,566 words
   PD
14 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to today's program. (Operator Instructions). Please note this call is being recorded.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Lee McEntire. Please go ahead, sir.

LEE MCENTIRE, SVP OF IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Thanks to everybody on the phone; thanks on the webcast for joining us as well. Welcome to our third-quarter results. Hopefully everybody has had a chance to review the earnings release. It is only available on the Bank of America investor relations website.

So before I turn over the call to Brian, let me just remind you we have our new CFO that will be going through the results this morning, Mr. Paul Donofrio. And so we will -- we may make some forward-looking statements. For further information on those please refer to either our earnings release documents on our website or our SEC filings.

So with that I will turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Lee, and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our third-quarter results.

Today we reported $4.5 billion in after-tax earnings or $0.37 per diluted share. When we think about the quarter, the key messages we continue to make good progress in a tough revenue environment due to low interest rates and a sluggish economic recovery. In addition with the late summer's volatility especially in the fixed income trading markets, are remaining challenging but with that we produced another good quarter of progress in all of the businesses.

Before Paul takes you through the details of the quarter, I want to provide a little context from my vantage point. We have continued to make progress toward our full earnings capacity here at Bank of America and this quarter represents the fourth consecutive quarter of solid results following the resolution of our large legacy exposures in the third quarter of last year. When you think about it over the last four quarters we have reported over $16 billion in after-tax income. That compares to the previous four quarters leading up to the third quarter of 2014 of about $5.2 billion, including the significant litigation cost.

Returns over the last four quarters in aggregate have generated an ROA of about 76 basis points and a 10% return on tangible common equity. This quarter we were able to keep the absolute level of our balance sheet flat to the second quarter. But by doing that we continue to replace discretionary assets with good core customer loans and we believe that is a very good trend. We continue to build record liquidity and we believe we are well positioned against the 2017 LCR requirements.

Our capital is again at record levels and we returned over $3 billion back to shareholders so far this year through common share repurchases and dividends.

Our tangible book value per share improved this quarter to $15.50. It is the highest level in many, many years.

So I want to spend a couple more minutes focusing on a few drivers in our business. Our teams here at Bank of America are focused on the everyday engagement with our customers, deepening relationships by growing the core of things we do with them deposits, loans, managing their risks, helping them invest their assets all while keeping our costs down and you can see that in our results.

When you think about our deposit franchise, we grew $50 billion in deposits over the last year on an all organic basis. That in and of itself is a large bank. As a reminder, our Consumer franchise is the largest retail bank in the United States. In our Consumer Banking business as you can see, we grew revenue and earnings year-over-year despite the low interest rate environment.

We have been restructuring our branch structure selling some branches, closing some branches and changing account structures and with that this quarter our core consumer checking accounts continue to grow. We grew those accounts and improved the percentage of those customers who use us as a primary bank and importantly the average balance per account continues to grow.

On cards, on credit cards, we issued another 1.3 million credit cards this quarter and active accounts continue to grow. The good news is we are doing it through the lowest cost possible through our core franchise, much lower than other means of growth.

When you go to the change in our financial services business for mobile and digital banking, we now have 18.4 million active mobile customers and 31 million active online customers. Digital sales this quarter were up 30% over last year. More customers are using mobile device to deposit checks and access their accounts and now are starting to buy products as well as book appointments. To get a sense of that, we are now looking 15,000 appointments a week off of our mobile devices.

Our Merrill Lynch teammates who work within our Consumer business helped push us through a new standard of 2 million accounts this quarter.

When we go to our Wealth Management business, this business is showing the effects of lower market valuations pressuring revenue but activity here has reflected good long-term flows, good deposit flows and good loan growth. In addition, we continue to invest in long-term growth in this business, more advisors, better products and better advice in building and preserving wealth for our clients and these clients continue to use the full range of our products including banking products.

As we have switched to our commercial banking business, the business we call Global Banking, loans to commercial and corporate clients around the globe grew nicely from last quarter and the year ago quarter. Although investment banking fees were down year-over-year, the industry fee pools appear to be down as much or more. We maintained our leadership across many of the products.

In our Global Markets business despite the challenging market conditions in the late August and September timeframe, we reported $1 billion in after-tax earnings in that business. Excluding DDA impacts, this is the best third quarter in earnings for this business we have seen in recent memory.

Our net interest income in the Company is benefiting from loan and deposit growth showing momentum this quarter after you exclude the impact of FAS 91.

Focusing on expenses which we've talked to you much about, we continue to hold our costs in check. Expense less litigation LAS costs remain well below the $13 billion threshold of $12.7 billion and that was in line with our second quarter despite the additional cost of CCAR and additional investments in the business.

We are taking the benefits of our simplify and improve program which keeps our costs flat while we continue to invest in customer facing client people to grow our businesses. This ability to invest in growth is key to driving our franchise forward.

When you go to the risk side of the house, credit risk remains very strong, market risk remains subdued and we get a great return on that VAR as you look at it across the competitors. We continue to feel good about our legacy exposure risk and LAS business continues to work itself down.

So in the context of the environment we faced, we are operating what we feel is a solid quarter and as evidenced the continuing progress on our strategy, our strategy of responsible growth with our customers.

With that, let me hand it over to Paul.

PAUL DONOFRIO, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everybody. Starting on slide three, we present the summary of our income statement and returns for this quarter as well as Q2 and Q3 last year. As Brian said, we earned $4.5 billion in the quarter compared to a loss of a couple hundred million dollars last year and earnings of $5.3 billion in Q2. Earnings per share this quarter were $0.37.

Let me mention a few larger items that in aggregate, benefited diluted EPS this quarter by a penny.

First, a negative $597 million market related NII adjustment, primarily FAS 91, cost us about $0.03. More than offsetting this was a $0.02 benefit from DVA of $313 million and a $0.02 benefit from a collective impact of three other items, gains from selling some Consumer Real Estate loans, tax benefits from restructuring some non-US subsidiaries, and a provision for payment protection insurance in the UK.

Revenues were $20.9 billion this quarter; expenses were $13.8 billion, significantly lower than a year ago because of litigation costs and compared to Q2, expenses were flat as we managed cost well while investing in our franchise. Return on assets was 82 basis points this quarter and return on tangible common equity was 10%.

Turning to slide four, the balance sheet ended basically flat relative to Q2 with assets of $2.15 trillion. However, we grew deposits $12 billion from Q2 while long-term debt declined by approximately $6 billion. Liquidity rose to nearly $500 billion, a record level and the time required for funding is now 3.5 years. Tangible common equity of $162 billion improved because of earnings supplemented by $1.5 billion in OTI. This was partially offset by $1.3 billion in capital return to common shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.

Tangible book value increased 10% from Q3 last year and our tangible common equity ratio grew to 7.8% as equity improvements outpaced asset growth.

With regard to regulatory capital, I want to start by pointing out that our transition ratios under Basel III increased with CET1 ending the quarter at 11.6%. However, I will focus my comments on Basel III fully phased in regulatory capital ratios. CET1 capital improved $4.8 billion to $153 million driven by net income, positive OTI and DTA utilization. This was partially offset by capital return to shareholders.

Under the standardized approach, our CET1 ratio improved to 10.8% as risk-weighted assets decreased modestly even as loans grew. Under the standardized approaches, the CET1 ratio increased from 10.4% to 11% as RWA improved by roughly $30 billion largely due to reductions in risk. During the quarter we announced that we exited the parallel run and we will begin reporting under the advanced approaches beginning in 4Q.

So we have also presented our CET1 ratio for 9-30 on a pro forma basis which includes the addition of approximately $170 billion in RWA primarily for wholesale credit under the advanced approaches. The pro forma CET1 ratio at 9-30 was 9.7%, an increase of approximately 40 basis points from Q2 on the same pro forma basis.

In terms of the supplementary leverage ratio, we estimate that as of 9-30, we continue to exceed US rules applicable at the beginning of 2018 at both bank and parent.

Turning to slide five, we grew loans and deposits both of which are key drivers to our financial performance. Reported loans on an inter-period basis increased $1.2 billion from Q2. However underneath the consolidated number, there was significant activity I want to take a moment to point out.

With that in mind, let's review why loans in All Other and LAS are declining. First, the portion of our mortgages that we report in All Other continue to run off due to paydowns. This runoff is being replaced by new loans which are now recorded in business segments like GWIM and Consumer where they are originated.

Second, also in All Other, we converted $6.2 billion of mortgages with long-term standby agreements into securities thereby improving HQLA. These types of conversions are largely complete.

Third, we sold roughly $3.6 billion of other mortgages and NPLs as we continue to clean up and optimize the balance sheet. Lastly, in LAS where we report our legacy home equity portfolio, second lien loans continue to run off.

Now if one excludes the above activities in LAS and other, ending loans in our primary lending segments increased $19 billion or 3% from Q2.

Turning to deposits on an ending basis, they reached $1.16 trillion this quarter growing $50 billion or 4% over Q3 last year. We produced solid growth across the franchise, Global Banking grew deposits 6% year-over-year. GWIM grew 3% and Consumer grew 7%. However as you can see at the bottom right, if one includes CD runoff, Consumer deposits grew 10%. We have also included two other tables to give you a sense of the composition of our deposits.

Turning to asset quality on slide six, I won't spend a lot of time here as asset quality continues to be strong and mostly consistent with Q2. Net charge-offs were flat around $930 million versus adjusted Q2, Q3 provision expense of $806 million and we released a net $126 million in reserves. Releases in Consumer real estate and credit card were partially offset by reserve builds in commercial. In commercial we saw small increases in reserve over criticized exposure from Q2 driven by downgrades in oil and gas that were partially offset by some improvements in the rest of the commercial portfolio.

Also noteworthy, the increase in oil and gas reserve over criticized in Q3 was less than half the size of the increase from Q1 to Q2.

Turning to slide seven, net interest income on a reported FTE basis was $9.7 billion, declining $1 billion from Q2. The decline in long end rates in the quarter caused adjustments in our bond premium amortization which resulted in a linked quarter decline in NII of $1.3 billion partially offset by good growth in NII otherwise. The Q2 adjustment increased NII by $669 million while the Q3 adjustment decreased NII by $597 million.

NII excluding these adjustments improved $292 million from Q2 to $10.3 billion. Three factors drove this increase. First, we grew core commercial loans. Second, we improved the composition of the balance sheet and our Global Markets business which improved trading related NII. Third, we benefited from one extra day in the quarter.

With regard to asset sensitivity, at the end of the third quarter our overall asset sensitivity increased as a result of the decline in long end rates which drove the FAS 91 adjustment. As of 9-30, an instantaneous 100 basis point parallel increase in rates is estimated to increase NII by approximately $4.5 billion over the subsequent year with a little more than half of that improvement caused by increases in short end rates.

Turning to slide eight, noninterest expense was $13.8 billion in Q3 matching the level of expense reported in Q2. The $20.1 billion expense in Q3 last year included $6 billion in litigation costs. Litigation this quarter and in Q2 was less than $250 million. Excluding litigation, expenses were $13.6 billion in the quarter, a decline of $600 million or 4% from last year and consistent with Q2 despite additional costs related to our CCAR submission.

Headcount continues to trend lower, down 6% compared to Q3 last year. LAS costs excluding litigation were relatively stable compared to Q2. However, we still expect to lower that number to roughly $800 million in Q4 and move lower in 2016. As a reminder, in fourth quarters we tend to experience some seasonal increase in expenses as we close out the year.

Let's walk through the business segments starting on slide nine with Consumer Banking. Consumer $1.8 billion, 5% greater than Q3 last year. The business segment generated a strong 24% return on allocated capital. Revenue increased over last year as increases in noninterest income outpaced a decline in NII.

With respect to NII compared to last year, the benefit of higher deposit levels was more than offset by the allocation of ALM activity and lower car deals. Noninterest income benefited from divestiture gains as well as higher card income driven by increased customer activity while service charges declined. Expenses declined from Q3 last year despite a 5% increase in sales specialist and higher fraud costs in advance of ruling changes regarding EMV chip implementation. Those increases were offset by savings from the continued optimization of our delivery network. The cost of operating our deposit franchise remains low at 180 basis points and the consumer bank reported an efficiency ratio of 57%.

We continue to experience shifts in consumer activity away from branches towards self-service options. Self-service trends are driven by mobile banking, online banking and ATM usage. Mobile banking customers increased to 18.4 million and deposits via mobile devices now represent 14% of consumer deposit transactions. Mobile processing is better for us and it is better for our customers. It is one-tenth the cost relative to processing and financial centers and more convenient for customers.

On slide 10, we present key drivers and trends. Average loans grew across mortgages, card and vehicle lending. Deposits, as Brian mentioned, continue to increase particularly if one excludes the impact of CD declining. On this basis, deposits are up 10% from the year ago.

Regarding brokerage assets, Merrill Lynch accounts crossed the $2 million mark and are up 2% while asset levels are up 8% from last year even with declines in equity markets this year.

Mortgage production although up from 3Q last year was down from 2Q as refinances declined. In the future, mortgage banking income in the Consumer segment will be lower by approximately $30 million per quarter given the Q3 sale of a small appraisal business. A similar amount of expense should reduce quarterly as well.

Looking at card activity, card issuance was strong at 1.3 million. Combined credit and debit spending volumes were up 3% from last year despite the decline in fuel prices. Average outstandings were down slightly from Q3 last year as customers paid off more of their balances. However, average balances showed modest growth over Q2.

US card credit quality was strong as net charge-offs declined this quarter to a decade low of 2.5% driving risk-adjusted margins higher to 9.3% excluding divestitures.

Turning to service charges, they were down moderately versus Q2 last year -- excuse me -- versus Q3 last year as we continued to open higher quality accounts that carry higher balances. These higher quality accounts tend to have fewer account fees.

Turning to slide 11, Global Wealth and Investment Management produced earnings of $656 million. Results were down from Q3 last year driven by lower market values and lower related client activity. Compared to Q3 last year, Asset Management fees were up 2% but more than offset by declines in transactional revenues.

The trend of lower transactional revenues continued this quarter as clients migrated from brokerage to managed relationships which was compounded by lower markets and muted new issuance. On NII, the benefits of higher loan and deposit flows was more than offset by the Company's ALM activities driving NII down from Q3 last year.

Noninterest expense was modestly higher than the year-ago period as litigation cost were higher and wealth advisors grew 6%. Pretax margin was 23%, down from a strong Q3 last year. Margins were pressured this quarter by a few factors.

First, markets declined pressuring revenue across many products especially those in which we record transactional revenues. Second, operating leverage was challenged as areas of revenue where incentives are high like asset management grew while NII where incentives are much lower, declined.

Moving to slide 12, despite the lower market levels, business drivers improved. Wealth advisors were up almost 1000 or 6% from Q3 last year. Long-term AUM flows were more than $4 billion. Deposits increased more than $7 billion. Average loans were up 10% from last year, our 22nd consecutive quarter of loan growth in this segment.

The last thing I would note that is not shown here is referral rates across the Company remained strong. For example, our retirement solutions business continues to win in the marketplace. We have won more than 1200 retirement plans year to date, many of which were referred from global banking. On a year-to-date basis, this is up more than 40% from 2014.

Turning to slide 13, Global Banking's earnings were $1.3 billion, generating a 14% return on allocated capital. Earnings declined from Q3 last year but were up modestly versus Q2. The comparison to Q3 last year reflects higher provision expense and lower NII driven by the Company's ALM activities as well as increased liquidity costs. Additionally, we saw year-over-year compression in loan spreads. However, loan growth was a positive contributor to NII. Growth from Q2 reflects improved NII from loan and deposit growth.

Regarding provision expense while flat to Q2, it is up $243 million from last year. We added $125 million to reserves in Q3 compared to a release of $116 million in the year-ago quarter.

Looking at trends on slide 14, let's first focus on fees relative to the same period last year given seasonality. Despite a lower level of IBCs this quarter, we maintained our number three global fee position and believe we increased our market share as industry fees pools declined. Investment banking fees for the Company this quarter were $1.3 billion, down 5% from Q3 last year. Advisory fees were up 24%, debt underwriting was down modestly, equity underwriting was down from Q3 last year, in line with industry volume declines.

Outside of IB, our Treasury fees improved from Q2 on increased activity. Looking at the balance sheet, loans on average were $310 billion, up 9% year-over-year and a similar percent relative to Q2 on an annualized basis. The growth was broad across both corporate and commercial borrowers and asset quality was consistent with our overall portfolio.

Importantly, the decline in spreads year-over-year flattened as the decline from Q2 was relatively small. On deposits, we saw good performance with average deposits increasing by $8 billion over Q2 and we continue to optimize the portfolio, improving the composition towards higher quality deposits from an overall LCR perspective.

Switching to Global Markets on slide 15, earnings were $1 billion on revenue of $4.1 billion despite challenging markets. We generated an 11% return this quarter. Earnings were up from Q3 last year which included litigation costs of roughly $600 million most of which was nondeductible for tax purposes. As you can see, we have a net DVA gain this quarter which was higher than last year. Total revenues excluding that DVA declined from Q3 last year driven by lower fixed sales and trading and to a lesser extent IBCs, offset partially by improved equity sales and trading. Noninterest expense excluding litigation improved $102 million versus Q3 last year, a 4% improvement.

Moving to trends on slide 16 and focusing on the components of our sales and trading performance, sales and trading revenue of $3.2 billion excluding net DVA is down 4% from Q3 last year. Comparing to the same period a year ago, fixed sales and trading revenue declined 11%. Similar to the first half of this year, the year-over-year comparisons reflect good activity in macro related products like rates and after tax. Conversely, market activity remained muted in credit products driving lower client activity this quarter than Q3 last year.

As a reminder, our mix remains more heavily weighted toward credit products driven by the strength of our new issues capability and market share.

Equity rose 12% driven by strong performance in equity derivatives reflecting favorable market conditions. Asset levels were down modestly from Q3 last year.

Turning to Legacy Asset & Servicing on slide 17, this segment lost roughly $200 million. I want to focus on three things here, the reduction in delinquent loans, mortgage banking income and expenses and compare each to Q2.

First, the number of delinquent first mortgage loans continued to decline, down 14% this quarter as the teams continue to work through solutions for customers.

Second, mortgage banking income declined by more than $400 million. This decline was driven primarily by three factors: servicing fees declined about $50 million as the units we service declined; net MSR and hedge performance declined $100 million driven by gains on MSR sales in Q2; reps and warranty provisions swung nearly $300 million from a benefit of $204 million in Q2 to a revision of $77 million this quarter.

Lastly, I want to focus on expenses which excluding litigation were flat compared to Q2 as increased professional fees offset improved operating costs from the decline in delinquent loans. We believe we are on track to achieve our goal of reducing expenses excluding litigation to approximately $800 million in Q4.

On slide 18, we show All Other which primarily includes our ALM actions and the operations of our UK card business and other smaller activities. All Other reported a $503 million pretax loss more than offset by certain tax benefits. The pretax loss was a result of a negative NII market-related adjustment and an increase in provisioning for UK credit, UK credit card payment protection insurance. This was partially offset by gains from securities and loan sales.

Regarding the change in PPI liability, we increased it because of a notice of future regulatory guidance regarding treatment of claims and a case ruling.

A comment or two on taxes before we wrap up. The Company's effective tax rate for the quarter was 26%. It was lower than Q2 due to the tax benefits I mentioned earlier. I would expect the tax rate to be roughly 30% next quarter excluding unusual items and specifically the recent UK tax proposals.

In terms of 2016, I would expect it to be in the low 30s. As a reminder from last quarter's announcement, we expect that the UK tax proposal announced in July will result in a one-time tax charge of approximately $300 million upon enactment from revaluing our UK DTAs.

Let me conclude our prepared comments by offering these takeaways. Although the US economy is improving slowly, revenue growth remains challenging in this interest rate environment. We are focused on those things we can control and drive. These include delivering for our clients and customers within our risk framework and driving those things we know will result in sustainable profits and returns. Our results reflect this focus.

We grew both loans and deposits across our business. We delivered to our corporate and institutional clients in a challenging market environment. We stayed focused on managing risk and we kept costs in check while investing in the business. We are getting better positioned each quarter for the current business environment and we remain well-positioned to benefit when rates rise.

With that, let's open it up to Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thanks, good morning. Just wondering if we could maybe just speak a little bit at the NII outlook given the dynamics about the stable balance sheet, shifts within the balance sheet and how we should think about both the GAAP and adjusted NIM if the interest rate environment continues to look more or less like it does today? Can you just help us think through what all of those dynamics mean for NII?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. So assuming some loan growth and adjusting for day count, we would expect normalized NII excluding market related adjustments to be flat to grind up as long as rates don't decline in the future. In the fourth quarter, we think they will grind up slightly based upon the realization of the expected forward curve and some loan growth.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay. And with respect to the loan growth, is that in the context of growth in the overall balance sheet or continued stability given mix shift?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you just look at commercial loans year-over-year up 10%, last quarter up 3%, so you've got to annualize that out and what we are looking at is that we replaced discretionary assets with actually good core assets so whether the balance sheet grows a little bit or not is not as critical as the assets. So it is probably driven in the near-term more by mix than aggregate size growth on a GAAP basis.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Wondering on expenses, you kept the core expenses flat to last quarter. Did you digest additional CCAR expenses and also some costs related to the proxy vote? What are the puts and takes on keeping that flat and what is your outlook on the core expenses going from here in this kind of environment?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure, so the short answer to your question but then I would like to elaborate a little more is yes, we kept core expenses flat and we absorbed CCAR and other CCAR expenses and other investments in the business in the quarter.

To take a step back, I think the way we would ask you to think about expenses is we are seeing good expense progress within our business importantly as we continue to invest in the future. So core expenses which for everybody excludes litigation and LAS are expected to remain relatively flat at call it a little less than $13 billion per quarter in a moderately improving business environment as we invest in growth and use SIM and other initiatives to offset inflationary pressures.

If the business environment slows, we would have to adjust. If the business environment gets better, we are going to use SIM and other efforts to improve the operating leverage of this Company even as incentives and other expenses increase.

PAUL DONOFRIO: So, John, I would remind everybody that we did guide you that we would have increased CCAR expenses in the second half of the year so we do have a little bit of that in the fourth quarter as well.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So, John, just so you think about it from a headcount perspective because that is what is going to drive our 60% people cost down. For the quarter we were down about 1.5. In that, we actually had an increase in client facing headcount in the quarter up 1.6 so basically we were able to achieve a reduction while we continued to invest. On top of that, the risk in CCAR FTE count was up about 400 for the quarter and other business hiring especially the new kids from school were up about 1000. So through attrition and then through other reductions we got that down to net 1.5.

So if you follow that course, last quarter we were down 3000 or so and that was 15 quarters in a row or something like that. We are down a little less this quarter which is expected to be a similar pickup next quarter. So the 12.7 we did in the second quarter remember was a surprise to all of you. We called it flat this quarter which I think exceeds what our expectations were. We are laser focused on keeping it at that kind of level while we continue to invest in 1000+ people to go generate the business growth you are starting to see.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Paul, in terms of the credit outlook, do you expect to kind of bounce around here, you've got charge-offs in the low 900s and you did about $100 million in reserve release. So charge-offs 900, provisions 800, is that the kind of ballpark you expect to stay in near-term?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I would expect to see provision in 2016 roughly where it is today.

JOHN MCDONALD: So that is around 800 a quarter, something like that, ballpark?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, because we are going to get a little help. John, if you look at it, you've still got a little excess mortgage charge-offs going through card continues to work its way down because of this period of credit quality and the question on the commercial side is bouncing around, gets lumpy. But you look at the reserve release, we are down to 100 so think of that sort of 800 to 900 range a quarter and I think that is a way to think about it over the next several quarters.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Paul, I just wanted to just you to elaborate a little bit on the comment you made during prepared remarks regarding the composition of the balance sheet improving that being a benefit for trading related NII. Could you just talk through what you did and is that sustainable? The benefit to NII?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Sure. I think the answer is we just sold for lack of a better word, sold some lower yielding assets that we used to grow our business end markets and we positioned them to higher yielding assets. So as an example, we would do a little bit less in prime brokerage and a little bit more in fixed income where some (inaudible) worths and yields are higher.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then on the conversion of the loan to securities for HQLA given the fact that you mentioned that is done, what kind of core loan growth are we looking for as we move forward here?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: By core do you mean loan growth in the business segments or for the consolidated Company?

BETSY GRASECK: I guess I will take consolidated more than anything.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So we grew loans as a consolidated company year-over-year by 1%. It was up slightly quarter over quarter. I would expect that we would be able to continue to grow the whole Company in the sort of, in that range. You are going to see faster growth in the core lending businesses, we grew that year-over-year 9%. I am not going to stand here and tell you that we are going to do that every quarter but we would expect to see more robust growth in our lending segments.

You have to remember that in LAS home-equity loans are still coming down and in the discretionary portfolio even though we are not going to have $6 billion as much as $6 billion in LTSE conversions, we still are going to see first mortgages run off there.

BETSY GRASECK: And then just lastly on this topic when you are thinking about reinvesting deposit growth etc. in securities, where are you relative to your new investments in securities versus what the portfolio yields are? Are you close to breakeven there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: In terms of running off yields, Betsy, versus the coming on yield?

BETSY GRASECK: Correct.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It is relatively stable.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Our portfolio has been priced down over the years and so it is relatively stable.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Can you give us an update on the CCAR resubmission and then also comment on some of the management changes that occurred there as we think about the 2016 process just how you might approach it differently or similar to what you have done in the past?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Why don't I start with CCAR and then maybe Brian will speak to some management. So in terms of CCAR, we submitted our resubmission on September 30 as planned. That has the involvement of the leadership of the Company and the Board, significantly involved within the line of business we tried to keep the regulators involved and up to speed every step of the way and they have until 75 days after that submission to get back to us.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: In terms of the change three months ago we told you that we were making the changes, nothing has changed in that Terry continues to work on the CCAR process, Terry Laughlin and Andrea has moved over as Chief Administrative Officer and been heavy in the process from the day that we announced it and that transition will continue to take place over the period of time between now and the next CCAR submission in 2016.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, and then just separately in terms of the credit quality comments that you provided for the next several quarters, how are you thinking about energy as part of that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we mentioned in the prepared remarks that our criticized assets were up modestly if you sort of dive into the oil and gas segment. And remember last quarter we increased criticized assets about $1 billion because of oil and gas. This quarter we saw that increase decline significantly to about 40% of that level and then be offset by improvements in the rest of the portfolio. So we saw a modest increase in criticized assets. We feel pretty good right now where we are with oil and gas. As you know, clients are going through the redetermination process.

MATT O'CONNOR: Just a big picture question following up on that, there is a lot of concern I think among credit folks that energy defaults have increased a lot and will continue to increase from here but we are not really seeing all that much pressure either at you guys or the banks. Are you guys higher in the structure, different customer base, why do think there is less pressure maybe with you guys than we are seeing from the industry as a whole outside of banks?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think the answer is yes, higher in the structure and a lot of the risk is distributed out to investors and things like that. The Company has had reserve base methodologies have hedges involved and it is more complex I think than oil price changes. So I think as you look at it, our lending portfolio is done consistent with our credit quality standards and had held pretty well under the significant change in revenue from oil price changes.

PAUL DONOFRIO: And large corporates, we are just dealing with larger companies that have a lot of different options and in middle-market as Brian said, a lot of that lending is secure.

If you look at our overall energy portfolio, we are at about 22-ish and really only about 40% of that really isn't tied. Of course everything in that sector is tied in some way to oil and gas but 40% of that is not really directly tied to the price of oil and gas. So when you start just working through the numbers and you whittle that down and then you whittle it down for the number of loans that we have where we have reserves, it gets to something I think that is manageable.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Good morning, Paul. Just a quick question on the liability side of the balance sheet. You had highlighted that long-term debt was down $6 billion or so in the quarter. I noticed that long-term debt costs were down about 11 basis points quarter over quarter. Is that sustainable in the context of TLAC? Is there just some movement underneath the hood or is it timing? Just kind of help me think about where that footprint and cost go from here.

PAUL DONOFRIO: We generally don't comment on our issuance plans. I guess the only guidance I would give you is we are going to try to have preferred that is roughly 1.5% of Tier 1 capital and sub debt that is roughly 2%. And in terms of TLAC, we don't know what the rules are yet. We may have to issue a little bit more debt. But based upon what we are hearing at least from a sort of rumor perspective, it looks to be quite manageable.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Technically quarter to quarter there were some hedges that went from a deduct to a benefit or the other way around that changed that rate. So I wouldn't think that the underlying rates haven't changed much is the way to think about it. There is just a hedge cost and a hedge benefit that came through that increased the spread.

PAUL DONOFRIO: Or you were referring to the decline to the yield, sorry.

JIM MITCHELL: No, that is all helpful. Maybe just on the loan growth side, what are you seeing on the demand side as Consumer has begun to pick up for you guys? Where are you seeing the most strength and do you think the environment still is pretty positive from the loan demand perspective in the US?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Remember we are focused on -- in the Consumer business on two things that we have been consistently focused on. We are making loans to our customers in connection with the whole franchise. And then secondly, we are staying in the very prime orientation. So as you think about this quarter, home equity production was $3 billion-ish which was kind of consistent with other quarters. It has grown from $1 billion up to $3 billion across the last couple of years and been very consistent.

As Paul said earlier, mortgages tipped down a little bit but year-over-year they are up strong, a little bit of seasonality in there and a little bit of refi runoff. Our auto lending business is still was strong. The direct to consumer piece of that we didn't have two, three years ago. We are up to $0.5 billion a quarter production so we are seeing good demand but part of it is just capturing that inherent client share, wallet share that we have been after and you are seeing that materialize.

The other key honestly in terms of nominal growth for us is the runoff non-core part that has gotten small enough over the last couple of years that we can overcome it. So the only place we still have that hole from a corporate perspective is really the home equity business. So we have resized the card business and you are seeing all the hard work, the 1.3 million cards producing some loans even though it is a huge payment rate on that.

You are seeing the auto lending business, both direct to consumer and then what we do with dealers and stuff strong and stable, and you saw the car sales numbers strong. And you are seeing the Consumer Real Estate strong from the home-equity production and I think solid.

When you go over to GWIN, you saw loan growth there between US Trust and what we call structured lending, but don't think of it that way. It is lending -- as well as assets and then also in the margin lending was fairly stable. I talked to John (inaudible). We haven't seen a big change in our margin lending. A lot of people think investors have lowered their risk and stakes have been relatively stable across the last few months.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, great. That is helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANAYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: So one of your competitors revealed that their efforts to mitigate some of the GSIF indicators had actually helped push them into a lower GSIF bucket and looking at the metrics that have been published as of year-end, it looks like you are actually closer to the lower end of that 3% threshold. And we have seen some progress in terms of reduction in Level III assets at year end. And just wanted to see if you actually see opportunities to manage that bucket lower somewhere closer to 2.5%?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We always manage the balance sheet against all the different constraints whether you can see the improvement in pro forma advanced ratio by 40 basis points this quarter, closing down the gap. So we are always looking to manage the balance sheet. I wouldn't put a lot of stake in the us moving ourselves fundamentally in buckets at this point because we have been working at that for the last three years to make sure as this rule was going to come out, that we had ourselves positioned as well as we could. So we will continue to work on it but I wouldn't expect us to change.

If you look about the risk assets and Level III assets and things like that and our Company continue to trend down and we just worked the balance sheet back. But I wouldn't say that we expect to move a bucket. We could but we don't expect to.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay. That is really helpful. Thanks, Brian. Maybe just digging into some of the GWIN guidance that, Paul, you had given earlier, the negative operating leverage has been fairly pronounced which you acknowledged and I did appreciate the detail at least on some of the specific factors that weighed on the margin such as litigation and maybe some remixing in terms of revenue.

But just wanted to get a sense as to how we should be thinking about that margin trajectory going forward assuming no elevated litigation and without any rate boost, just to get a sense as to how we should be thinking about that profitability trajectory?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you remember the last quarter we talked a bit about this. There are some things that will help us which are that some of the deal stuff runs off this year relative to next year which will give us some positive help but round numbers nearly $100 million a quarter of expense help. That is just amortization that finally runs off so that is positive.

And I think Paul cited and you cited back the examples of some nonrecurring things. I think you have to be careful in the year-over-year comparisons on the margin because this business, there is a big bank inside our GWIN business, that $250 billion deposit franchise, big-money franchise so all of the dynamics that we talk about from the corporate obviously hit them also. And so they will benefit more by stability in that as we compare quarters and hopefully grow out of that as they grow loans and deposits.

But I think that is the thing. The question then comes down to more philosophically would you quit investing in new advisors to get a point on margin or so and in the context of that business earn $600 million to $700 million after-tax for us in the context of needing to drive it to another level. We still believe the right trade is to continue to invest in growth. And if the world changed and those people weren't becoming successful which they are, we would change that.

And the thought is that we are adding advisors, you don't see that in other people's franchises and we are doing it in connection with Consumer Bank which is a critical increased success factor for our advisors. In other words, we hire people in what they call BFAs without -- that work within the Consumer franchise but on Merrill teams and we are seeing them get up to speed fast. We think that is a competitive advantage for people we during this business and we will continue to invest in that.

So if we can't seen the success we will pull back on that but right now it is worth it for our shareholders and our customers.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay, thanks for that detail, Brian. Maybe just one more for me on the investment banking side. One of your competitors was talking about a pause in activity that they have experienced so far in 4Q. I recognize it is early days but just wanted to get a sense as to what you are seeing within the global banking and markets businesses and also if you could provide just some additional color or detail on what you are seeing in the backlogs by channel, that would be really helpful too.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I will let Paul hit that but in terms of that. Just want to make sure you are talking about trading or investment banking fees or both?

Steven Chubak

Both.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Okay, Paul?

PAUL DONOFRIO: So I guess in terms of the pipeline, the pipeline right now looks quite -- this is investment banking fees -- the pipeline right now looks quite strong. There is a decent amount of M&A in it, the timing of which can move around a lot. Some of the pipeline increase I guess can be attributed to transactions that were in our pipeline in the third quarter didn't it come out in the third quarter and are rolling over into the fourth quarter. We saw that type of activity in ECM and as markets improve, we hope that pipeline activity will come out.

In terms of sales and trading, we talked a little bit about that in the prepared remarks. We saw I think good activity in equity sales and trading as clients needed to rebalance risk or take advantage of opportunities particularly in Asia. We were getting some of that flow and feel good about it. On the other hand, we do have a strong FICC business that is tied to new issuance and the new issuance market in the third quarter wasn't as strong so some of those flows just weren't there.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Year-over-year, last year's fourth quarter was pretty tough so I think being better than that wouldn't be great performance in sales and trading. But Tom and the team have got the business pretty well positioned in terms of effectiveness and that is why even with the slowdown in the latter part of the quarter we still made $1 billion and you subtract out DVAs, $800 million or so and that is good performance in that business.

STEVEN CHUBAK: All right, great. That is it for me. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thanks. A couple of quick follow-ups. I hear all o your comments so no need to repeat them on the feeling decent about credit quality and energy specifically. Just looking for two pieces of info if you are willing to share either reserve as a percentage of loans for energy specifically or maybe what percentage of the criticized exposure is energy related? Just looking for more detail behind the comfort. Thanks.

PAUL DONOFRIO: I don't think we have any of that perspective with us handy and I am not sure we disclose that but we will follow up with you if we do.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, worth trying. In terms of what is going on in terms of the mix shift on balance sheet out of some of the discretionary assets and into the core loan growth, I think everybody will take that all day long. And I am curious on if there are RWA implications that we need to think about, is that a heavier RWA mix even though we will take it -- I am just curious on how that plays on the capital side?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Yes, I think that as we grow loans, obviously our RWA is going to increase particularly on a standardized basis. It is less of an increase on an advanced basis but they are completely tied. And as you said, we are comfortable with that given the interaction with our clients and the opportunity that brings to increase our margins relative to other investment opportunities.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: As you think about it, remember that if you look at page five and you look at the content of what is leading coming on especially in the Consumer business and then think about running that through all kinds of models including the CCAR process and think about getting rid of $5 billion of home equity loans which were basically nonperforming and putting on $3 billion of good home equity loans, that dynamic is pretty favorable to the overall calculations. And so it is not only within categories -- not only in categories it is also within categories that we are seeing improvement in credit quality on what is coming on especially when we run through models and things like that.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, I appreciate that. One last one. You commented earlier about the strength in equities partially driven by the good performance in the derivatives business during the quarter. I guess the question is it ebbs and flows but maybe over the last 12 months, not just the last quarter, is derivatives 40%, 50% of overall equities, is that a number you are willing to share?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Are you talking about the percentage of equities as a function of what?

GLENN SCHORR: I'm saying in any given period, your equity markets revenues, how much of that is driven via the derivatives business?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think it is less than half but I don't have the number off the top of my head but I think you can look at it in various pieces. We are checking it now but remember it is an integrated business, it is between 30% and 40%. We just found a number but remember it is an integrated business so you can't say growth or derivatives but cash -- the clients do all things with us including fixed income and equities so we are growing it together. So think 30%, 40%.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Good morning. Brian, just one question follow-up on the loan side. You talked about the demand and where you are seeing it but I'm just wondering in terms of like the no excuses growth mentality from a supply side, where are the lending officers now in terms of like using the excess capacity to continue to grow the balance sheet? Is there still room from the Bank of America supply side to extend that growth on top of what the economy and the market place is giving you broadly?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, if you look at the different segments, if you think about on the Consumer side using -- it is more sales force growth and effectiveness and so in building that team and then also the digital sales coming up whether it is autos, whether it is credit card are up dramatically. So think of that engine as being both people and machine for lack of a better term. But don't think of it as changing credit quality or taking any kind of more risks. So [Tom and Dean] that run that business for us has done a good job and so I would say these supply is there more from a delivery capacity than it is from an expanding the box or anything like that. We've really kept it to where we want it and we think that holds us in good stead as you think through all the different dynamics in our Company.

When you go to the commercial side, it is simply a couple of things. In the very small business which is reporting, we have actually seen that business stabilize and start to make its way out of a run-off position and that is again a more automated scored approach. We sped up approval times and done a lot of work to make ourselves more competitive more on delivery than credit. But if you go into business making, commercial banking, global corporate investment banking segment are three versions. (inaudible) and the team, they have actually hired over 100 people, loan officers this year so think of that as 10% to 15% growth in loan officers. Got them hired, they are in working. It takes time for them to get up to speed. Al (inaudible) in our middle-market business, I think is up 60 this your, something like that, 70 people delivering lending and products and things behind that also as treasury services people.

So again capacity expansion in the global corporate investment banking a little differently but as we look at middle market, I think that is an area where we are -- we used to think if we were going to take 10, let's only take eight, that is better, we are now telling our teams you need to -- we to understand why you are not taking 10 if that is our whole limit and our capacity in a given transaction as an example and they are doing that. So I think we are probably creating a little more not risk weighting type of supply but just we are taking a little bit more loans because we are twice the equity we used to be and therefore we can absorb it and the team does a great job in credit quality there.

So I would say if you looked at it across the board, Consumer, it is more delivery capacity and in commercial it is more both delivery capacity and then as you cite, sort of take a little more risk in terms of dollar denomination but not in terms of unwanted credit quality.

KEN USDIN: Okay, got it. Paul, one quick follow-up on GWIM, can you just remind us how that business kind of marks itself in terms of asset level pricing versus the transactions? It seems like those kind of went different directions this quarter and the result was kind of flattish on a revenue perspective. So what do we need to think about in terms of where the markets have come and where we are looking ahead in terms of asset level versus transaction type revenue activity?

PAUL DONOFRIO: AUM? So we continue to grow AUM and that is all good. I mean it was a little bit slow this quarter but in a bad market environment we continue to grow AUM, we continue to grow deposits, we continue to grow loans so I think everybody is doing their job. You are right that when market activity is lower, we tend to see less activity in the transactional side of that business. There is a lot of new issuance there, mutual funds, other products that just don't come to market and so that sort of exacerbates things when the markets are bad. Does that answer your question?

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. Two questions. One, there is an issue out there I think supposed to happen in 2018 on credit quality. It is this current expected credit loss. Can you just tell us where the argument is about that right now and whether you have been able to do any preliminary work about how that would impact you?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I don't think, Nancy, the idea of a loan type of reserving on the commercial -- all loans it is out there, the FASB is working on it. I think there has been voluminous comments and questions about it. But when it comes out, we well make it -- it will be basically a one-time adjustment type of thing and then it would be over with and so over the course of time, it should come out the same because you think about it this is just putting it all up front as you put the loans on and the commercial side especially would be a change.

So we will get to that when we get to that but it hasn't been clarified what the rule is. Lots of people have commented on it and it would be a one-time thing and as you say somewhere around 2018 is what people currently think.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Secondly, another credit quality question. There was a lot of speculation before the quarter and I think this is probably based on the energy outlook that this would be the quote inflection point quarter and beginning to build reserves. But what you are saying and what J.P. Morgan said yesterday was that the credit quality outlook remains pretty stable. Can you just comment on this inflection point issue and when you think we will get there?

PAUL DONOFRIO: Well, we are still seeing reserve releases on the Consumer side of a bank. They are certainly starting to moderate and consistent with loan growth, we are seeing some reserve additions on the commercial side of the bank. And as I said earlier, if you are looking for when those lines are going to sort of cross, we think provision as Brian and I both said is going to be roughly sort of 800 to 900 in 2016. That is kind of where the conversion is going to happen someplace per quarter that is someplace in 2016.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Nancy, remember, we still have massive risk coming off in Consumer that we are not -- reserves are going over to the commercial side and some is coming out net of that 100 plus million this quarter. We expect that to probably mitigate and then if you get loan growth, you will build reserves at some point but I think that is still a bit out there.

NANCY BUSH: So sometime in 2016 probably?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, it depends on what the loan growth is and it depend on the best economic scenario. But I think we still we are still repositioning reserves on the Consumer side that are [excessive]. You can see in the credit statistics we are carrying a healthy reserve for areas that are continuing to come down in terms of risk.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

THOMAS LETRENT, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, guys. It is actually Thomas LeTrent on behalf of Paul. Most have been asked and answered but one quick question on the servicing side. The servicing income has been coming down at a faster rate than the portfolio and I know you guys have sort of exited most of the sales on the portfolio side. So at what point can we sort of expect the fees to level off and is that just a function of the legacy stuff continuing to run off?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you go to page 17, you can see that the rate of reduction will come down, will slow down but it will still come down on the theory of the units doing. But remember the other issue we have is we are holding more of the loans so that from a corporate perspective that also -- comes in yield and not in servicing fee. So expect it to work its way down to 345 this quarter I would think 300-ish is where it ought to sort of flatten out.

THOMAS LETRENT: And then also on slide 17 if I may on the 60 days delinquent, how much of that is the quarterly change, how much of that is from sales or is that mostly just runoff?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I would say most of it is just runoff.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We are just working it out contemptuously and so we've still got room to go to get it normalized but there is nothing big material going on in terms of sales and stuff this quarter.

THOMAS LETRENT: Okay, that is all. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: I had three small questions. First, you sold $3.6 billion of assets, mortgages and NPLs. What was the gain or sale on those sales? I'm sorry, the gain or loss?

PAUL DONOFRIO: In total on our gains, on all our sort of loan sales in the quarter, it was $400 million.

MIKE MAYO: I am sorry, $400 million?

PAUL DONOFRIO: $400 million.

MIKE MAYO: That added a little bit. Can we assume that repeats or this is kind of a one-off?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you look, Mike, it is in the puts and takes we put on the first slide there.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, that is fine. Higher rates, you are more asset sensitive now I guess $4.5 billion to 100 basis points. You were $3.9 billion last quarter. Are you intentionally -- I mean how do you think about that, are you leaving money on the table by being so asset sensitive? Do you want to be this asset sensitive? Maybe give the answer in the context of the last jobs report which seems to imply rates will increase later than previously expected.

PAUL DONOFRIO: We have not changed how we manage the interest rates of the Company. All that happened was long end rates went down from Q2 to Q3 increasing the (technical difficulty) that number.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The FAS 91 is really the major difference.

MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, Paul, you are new in the job as CFO. Actually Brian, this is the first call where we can ask the question, why did the old CFO leave? We have heard a lot of different reports so why did the last CFO leave?

And, Paul, as you are new in the job as CFO, what changes might you want to make? And Paul or Brian, if rates don't go up for a lot longer than you expected, what is your Plan B to deal with the tougher environment?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So let me answer that and then I will let Paul talk. As we talked about three months ago, Bruce had served as Chief Risk Officer and CFO for a combined six years and wanted to get back and run a business or do something different so we announced that and Paul became CFO. There is nothing new to add.

In terms of how we will deal with the environment as we said most times to earlier questions, we continue to be able to hold the core expenses flat while we make the investments, pay the increased CCAR expenses, pay for the cost to reposition the franchise, severance and everything and we will continue to work that. If the environment changed and we didn't think we were getting returns on that, we will just go to the long-term interest of our shareholders, we would reduce the investment rate.

MIKE MAYO: And Paul's philosophy on being CFO, any changes with your predecessor?

PAUL DONOFRIO: I think it is a little early for me to have developed a plan in terms of radical change. Bruce did a tremendous job of cleaning up the balance sheet and positioning our Company for growth and we have a great team that he built and I'm getting to know all of that and we will see how it goes.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: As it appears we have no further questions, I would like to return the program to Mr. Lee McEntire for closing remarks.

LEE MCENTIRE: Thanks for joining, everybody. We will talk to you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's program. Thanks for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151015ebae0018h
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
15,702 words
   PD
15 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to today's program. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
Please note this call may be recorded. (Operator Instructions)

It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Lee McEntire. You may begin, sir.

LEE MCENTIRE, SVP, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Thanks to everybody on the phone as well as the webcast for joining us this morning for the second-quarter results. Hopefully everybody's had a chance to review the earnings release documents that are available on the website.

So before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce let me just remind you we may make some forward-looking statements. And for further information on those please refer to either our earnings release documents, our website or our SEC filings.

So with that I'm pleased to turn it over to Brian Moynihan, our CEO, for some opening comments before Bruce Thompson, the CFO, goes through the details. Brian?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CHAIRMAN & CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Lee. And good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our second-quarter results.

As you can see from our release we reported $5.3 billion in after-tax earnings this quarter which is up from last quarter as well as more than double what we made last year. Not only were we pleased with the bottom line but revenue was up and expenses were down comparatively against both periods.

Lots of things came together to achieve these results and we continue to work on all these also. On the expense side we told you that we achieved the new BAC cost savings back in the third quarter of last year. However, we didn't give up on our focus on expenses and you can see those in the results.

It's the lowest non-litigation expense base since 2008. At the same time we continue to invest in the future of this Company. Just to mention a few of these investments, we added sales specialists in our financial centers, up a 3% versus last year.

We added 3% to our financial advisors since last year. 4% to our commercial and business bankers. We've opened new financial centers in new markets that we previously didn't have coverage and we continue to upgrade those in other markets.

In addition we continue to invest in young new talent in our Company. We hired a record number of teammates from college, over 1,200, and we upped our intern program to over 1,800 this summer.

And we continue to invest as we have said in technology with over $3 billion we've spent this year to continue to improve and drive our products and our capabilities in the Company. As we are doing that we continue to focus on our process improvement. Our Simplify and Improve effort continues to take hold and you saw that and some of the effects of that this quarter.

The goal of the program is to hold the cost management well as the economy continues to recover and our revenues continue to recover. Away from the expenses, a few other highlights of the quarter, we saw our overall loan growth and balances from the first quarter, we saw a continued improvement in our net charge-offs in credit quality, our deposits and our consumer continue to grow even faster this quarter than prior quarters.

We also built capital and tangible book value despite the OCI impact of higher rates. We returned over $1.3 billion to our shareholders through share repurchase and common dividends. And looking at the results this quarter you can also see that we're making progress on our path to our long-term targets to return on assets and return on tangible common equity.

Bruce will take you through the business activity in the various pages in the slides but some highlights. This quarter again we averaged about 5,000 new customers a day to our mobile banking platform. But importantly the team continues to make progress in bringing that platform into the Company in multiple ways.

An example of that is this quarter our digital channel sales were up 30% from last year in the second quarter. In addition to that we continue to focus on our mortgage area; our direct-to-consumer mortgage and home equity originations improved 40% from a year ago.

In the mass affluent space our Merrill Edge product continues to have record assets and they're up 15% to over $122 billion. And that's on top of our investment brokerage services revenue teammates in US Trust and Merrill Lynch that continues to grow.

We also continue to drive our 401(k) business and this year we've added some of the industry's largest companies to our platform. So those are the trends in the business and Bruce will cover more later.

From a broad economic standpoint what do we see out there? Notwithstanding uncertainty in economies outside the United States we see the US economy continues to steadily improved. In our middle-market business, our commercial businesses, our Company's balance sheet is strong and they continue to draw loans at a higher rate than they did last quarter.

Our consumers continue to spend on our debit and credit cards, this quarter spending over $127 billion this quarter, up 3% from last year even with a downdraft in gas prices in the year-over-year comparison. Our industry-leading research team under Candace's leadership and Bank of America research expects US GDP growth for the second half of the year to be 3% for each of those quarters and we see that in our statistics.

Our Company is well-positioned to benefit from that continued health in the economy. And we continue to manage this Company to deliver for our customers, clients and for you as shareholders. With that I will turn it over to Bruce.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian, and good morning everyone. I'm going to start on slide 3 and let's go through the results.

We recorded $5.3 billion of earnings in the second quarter or $0.45 per diluted share. This compares to $0.27 a share in the first quarter of 2015 and $0.19 in the second quarter of last year.

A few items to note as you review the results. In the second quarter we had $669 million of positive market-related adjustments in net interest income primarily driven by premium amortization on our debt securities from higher long-term rates. This provided a $0.04 benefit to EPS.

The quarter also included $373 million in benefits from consumer real estate loans which added $0.02 a share. One other item worth noting is the rep and warrant provision which is a net $205 million benefit this period. This was mostly associated with positive developments in legacy mortgage-related matters which

I'll discuss later in the presentation.

This added $0.01 to EPS. Revenue on an FTE basis was $22.3 billion in the second quarter and included the items that I just mentioned. Total non-interest expense in the quarter was $13.8 billion and reflects lower litigation costs, lower LAS cost and good core expense controls compared to both the first quarter of 2015 and the second quarter of 2014.

Provision for credit losses this quarter were $780 million and included improved net charge-offs on an adjusted basis as well as less reserve release compared to the first quarter of 2015. Return on tangible common equity this quarter was 12.8%, return on assets was 99 basis points and the efficiency ratio was 62%. If we adjust for those metrics for the few items I mentioned earlier return on tangible common equity was 10.9%, return on assets was 85 basis points and the efficiency ratio was 65%.

On slide 4, the balance sheet was up less than 1% versus the first quarter of 2015 as loan growth and higher securities balances were offset by a decline in the ending balances within our Global Markets business. Loans on a period-end basis were up reflecting good core loan activity. All of our loan categories showed growth from the first quarter of 2015 with the exception of Consumer Real Estate which declined from both discretionary activity as well as other one-offs.

Common shareholders' equity improved. This solid earnings growth was partially offset by a $2.2 billion decline in OCI and $1.3 billion in capital returns to common shareholders.

We repurchased 49 million shares for $775 million and paid approximately $500 million in common dividends this quarter. Tangible book value increased to $15.02 and tangible common equity improved to 7.6%.

If we look at lending activity on slide 5 our reported loans on an end-of-period basis increased for the first time since the third quarter of 2013, growing $8.5 billion from the first quarter or 4% on an annualized basis. Activity in our discretionary portfolio which is reflected in the LAS and All Other box where we use consumer real estate loans to manage interest rate risk in the LAS unit where we have a home equity run-off portfolio together showed a decline from the first quarter of 2015 of $15 billion.

The loan sales I mentioned earlier accounted for roughly half that amount and included certain loans with long-term standby arrangements that were converted into securities. After we exclude this activity, our core loans increased $23.5 billion, or 4% from the first quarter of 2015. Commercial lending was strong.

Among other initiatives the management team challenged our corporate and commercial lenders for the past several quarters to more fully utilize the credit limits to drive responsible growth. In that light, Global Banking showed a continuation of loan growth from the end of the first quarter of 2015 growing $11.4 billion, or 4% during the quarter from a mix of C&I across large corporate and middle market as well as growth in commercial real estate.

Our Wealth Management business continues to experience strong demand in both securities based lending as well as consumer real estate. And our Consumer Banking area grew both card and auto loans.

If we move to regulatory capital on slide 6, under the transition rules our CET1 ratio improved to 11.2% in the second quarter. If we look at our Basel III regulatory capital on a fully phased-in basis CET1 capital improved $1.1 billion driven by earnings, partially offset by the OCI decline, share repurchases and dividends.

Under the standardized approach, our CET1 ratio was steady at 10.3% as RWA was stable with the first quarter of 2015. Under the advanced approaches, CET1 ratio increased from 10.1% to 10.4% as RWA improved by approximately $34 billion. Lower counterparty RWA drove this decline and was equally split between three factors.

The first lower derivative exposures mainly driven by movements in both rates as well as FX. Second, optimization through better collateral management and reductions in certain positions. And third, an increase in the population of trades eligible for model treatment.

The balance of the improvement was driven by lower levels of market risk. In regards to the Fed's requested modifications to models in order to exit the parallel run that we have previously communicated to you, at the end of the quarter we estimate if we made the requested modifications that our advanced approach's CET1 ratio would be approximately 9.3% at June 30.

Moving to our supplementary leverage ratios we estimate that at the end of the second quarter we continue to exceed the US rules that are applicable in 2018. Our bank holding company SLR ratio was approximately 6.3% and our primary bank subsidiary BANA was approximately 7%.

If we turn to slide 7 on funding and liquidity, long-term debt of $243 billion was up $6 billion from the first quarter as issuances outpaced maturities. As you can see from the maturity profile we have $10 billion of parent company debt scheduled to mature in the rest of 2015 and we'll continue to be opportunistic in regards to issuance.

Our global excess liquidity sources reached a record level during the quarter at $484 billion and now represent 23% of the overall balance sheet. The increase from the first quarter of GELS reflects a continued shift from discretionary loans into HQLA securities as well as the increased step balances.

Our parent company liquidity increased to $96 billion and our time to required funding improved to 40 months. At the end of the second quarter we estimate that the consolidated Company was well above the 100% fully phased-in 2017 requirement for the liquidity ratio.

If we turn to slide 8 on net interest income, on a reported FTE basis was $10.7 billion, an increase of $1 billion from the first quarter of 2015. Volatility in long end rates over the past few quarters has clearly caused some variability in out reported NII. The market-related adjustment from our bond premium amortization this quarter was a benefit of $669 million as rates rose 40 basis points in the quarter while in the first quarter of 2015 we reported a negative $484 million adjustment from a decline in rates in the period.

If we adjust for those items our NII declined approximately $100 million from the first quarter of 2015 to just over $10 billion as the impact of lower discretionary balances and consumer loan yields more than offset the impact of one more day of interest. At the end of the second quarter an instantaneous 100 basis point parallel shift increase in rates would be expected to contribute roughly $3.9 billion in NII benefits over the following 12 months and that's split roughly 60% to short end rates and 40% to long end rates. Given the movement higher in long end rates our balance sheet did become less sensitive to long end rates compared to March 31 as we realized some of that sensitivity through FAS 91 in the second quarter.

As you can see on slide 9, non-interest expense was $13.8 billion in the second quarter and included $175 million in litigation expense. Litigation expense did decline significantly from the second quarter of 2014 levels. If we exclude litigation expenses were $13.6 billion in the quarter, a decline of $900 million, or 6% from the second quarter of 2014.

On balance we're quite pleased with our year-over-year expense improvement even while we continue to invest in the franchise. In the third quarter of 2014 we wrapped up the new BAC cost savings initiatives and several quarters later we continue to see good progress on operating cost reductions in LAS as well as in other areas. Our headcount is down 7% compared to the second quarter of 2014 and as a reminder we do expect to incur some costs associated with our CCAR resubmission through the balance of the year.

If we go ahead and switch to asset quality on slide 10, reported net charge-offs were $1.1 billion versus $1.2 billion in the first quarter 2015. Both periods include charge-offs associated with the August 2014 DOJ settlement which we had previously reserved for. If we exclude these impacts and a small impact from recoveries on NPL sales, our core net charge-offs declined $75 million from the first quarter of 2015 to $929 million.

Loss rates on the same adjusted basis improved to 43 basis points in the second quarter of 2015. US consumer credit card delinquencies improved as well and on the commercial front we saw an uptick in NPLs and reservable criticized exposure from the first quarter driven by downgrades in our oil and gas exposures. Despite these downgrades we feel good about our exposure in this area as they are well collateralized and most of these credits only had a one level migration on a risk rating scale.

The second-quarter provision expense was $780 million and we released a net $288 million in reserves which includes the utilization of previously accrued DOJ reserves. Releases in consumer card and consumer real estate were partially offset by reserve builds within the commercial loan growth area.

Let's go ahead and move to the businesses on slide 11, Consumer Banking. Consumer Banking had earnings of $1.7 billion which was 4% greater than the second quarter of 2014 and 16% above the first quarter of 2015 level. This in turn generated a strong 24% return on allocated capital.

Within revenue fees were up 2% from last year driven by higher card and higher mortgage banking revenue but this growth was more than offset by a decline in net interest income. The decline in net interest income is a result of the allocated impact of our ALM activities as well as some compression in card low yields. Provision decreased $44 million from the second quarter of 2014 driven by the continued improvement that we saw in both the credit card as well as the auto portfolios.

Our non-interest expense was down 4% from the second quarter of 2014 as we reduced the number of financial centers and associated costs and personnel. The cost of average deposits ratio is now less than 175 basis points and we have a 57% efficiency ratio within this segment. This business is a good representation of how the Company is doing more business while we continue to reduce expenses.

We also continue to experience a shift in consumer behavior patterns away from branches and towards more self-service. For example, the number of mobile banking customers continues to grow and increase to more than 17.6 million customers this quarter and these customers look to mobile devices for approximately 13% of all transactions or all deposit transactions.

If we look at some of the key drivers and trends within the consumer area on slide 12 we remain a leader in many aspects of Consumer Banking doing business with roughly half of all US households. Let's look at card activity. Card income increased 5% from the second quarter of 2014 on strong sales and solid spend levels.

Card issuance reached almost 1.3 million units in the quarter on increased sales efforts while the average book FICO score was also strong. Average loan balances were down slightly from the second quarter of 2014 as we do see customers paying down more of their balances.

Net charge-offs declined from very low levels and were 2.7% in the second quarter and risk adjusted margins remain high at roughly 9%. Mortgage banking income in this segment was up 8% from last year as originations had nice follow-through from the elevated pipeline at the end of the first quarter as well as higher production margins.

First-quarter mortgage -- first mortgage originations for the total Company were $16 billion, up 44% year over year and up 16% from the first quarter of 2015. Home equity line and loan originations increased 23% to $3.2 billion from the year-ago quarter and were stable with the first quarter.

Revenue improvement versus the second quarter of 2014 was driven by improved margins. Although the mortgage pipeline remains solid it is down 15% from the end of the first quarter driven in part by higher rates.

Service charges were down modestly versus the second quarter of 2014. This fee line item does continue to be somewhat muted as we continue to open higher quality accounts and those accounts are carrying higher balances. Compared to the second quarter of 2014 our average deposits of $545 billion are up $31 billion, or 6% even as we lowered the rates paid which now stands at 5 basis points.

Lastly, while we are bringing down our overall headcount in this business we continue to invest in the growth opportunity of our preferred client base. And we've been increasing sales specialists in the financial centers and that's resulted in increased activity.

If we turn to slide 13, Global Wealth and Investment Management produced earnings of $690 million which was up 6% from the first quarter of 2015 levels but down 5% from the second quarter of 2014. Compared to the second quarter of 2014, solid fee growth was offset by lower net interest income, higher credit cost and modestly higher expenses which resulted in a decline in year-over-year results.

The allocation of the impact of our Company's ALM activities more than offset the NII benefits that we had from solid loan growth within this space. Year-over-year non-interest income was up 4% on strong asset management results. Non-interest expense was modestly higher in the second quarter on the strength of our asset management fees as well as the continuing investment in client facing professionals.

The year-over-year increase in provision reflects larger reserve release in the prior periods. Pretax margin was 24% and the return on allocated capital remained strong at 23%.

If we look at activity and drivers on slide 14 asset management fees continue to grow and are up 9% from the second quarter of 2014. This was partially offset by sluggishness of transactional revenue in the brokerage business. We did increase our financial advisors by 6% over the last 12 months and we feel good about the number of advisors that are joining us from competitors.

Client balances are above $2.5 trillion, up almost $12 billion from the first quarter of 2015 driven by solid client balance in-flows as well as improved market valuations. Long-term AUM flows were $9 billion for the quarter and that's the 24th consecutive quarter where we've seen positive flows. As I mentioned earlier we continue to experience strong demand in both our securities based and residential mortgage lending areas and we reached a new record for loans within this space during the quarter.

If we turn to slide 15, Global Banking earnings were $1.3 billion which is 14% unallocated capital. Earnings did decline 13% from the second quarter of 2014 as lower non-interest expense was more than offset by lower net interest income, lower investment banking revenues and higher provision expense that was associated with a strong loan growth that we saw during the quarter.

The year-over-year decline in net interest income reflects the allocation of our ALM activity and liquidity cost as well as some compression in loan spreads. Non-interest expense did decline 3% from the second quarter of 2014 as lower litigation and other technology initiative cost were partially offset by investment in client facing personnel.

If we look at the trends on slide 16 we chart the components of revenue. Investment Banking fees for the Company were $1.5 billion, down 6% from the near record levels that we experienced during the second quarter of 2014.

Advisory fees were up 5% during the quarter. Debt underwriting was relatively stable as increased activity in the investment-grade and other products offset the declines that we saw within our leverage finance area.

Equity underwriting was down 19% from what was a record level for our Company in the second quarter of 2014. Outside of Investment Banking fees other banking revenue declined from lower leasing gains partially offset by modestly higher treasury fees and card income. If we look at the balance sheet loans on average were $301 billion, up 4% from both the year-over-year and linked quarter periods.

The growth was broad-based across both corporate and commercial borrowers. Although average deposits were relatively stable versus the second quarter of 2014 we did see a favorable shift in mix with our non-interest-bearing deposits up over $20 billion and our interest-bearing deposits down $17 billion versus the second quarter of 2014. This growth in non-interest-bearing balances was driven by a continuing focus on the growth within operating balances.

The decline in interest-bearing balances was driven by targeted reductions in these low liquidity value deposits.

Switching to Global Markets on slide 17, in the second quarter earnings were $1 billion on revenues of $4.3 billion. We generated 11% return on capital in this business during the quarter. Earnings were up modestly from the first quarter of 2015 levels which included higher litigation but down from the second quarter of 2014 is revenue declined.

Total revenue excluding net DVA declined from the second quarter driven by lower equity investment gains, lower FICC and sales and trading results and lower investment banking fees. If we exclude a $188 million difference between periods on the sale of an equity investment, revenue was down 4% from the second quarter. Non-interest expense was reduced 5% from that same period in line with the revenue reductions.

If we focus on the sales and trading performance components on slide 18, sales and trading revenue of $3.3 billion ex-net DVA is down 2% from the second quarter of 2014 levels. Compared to the same period a year ago, FICC sales and trading was down 9% and not unlike what we saw in the first quarter of 2015 strength within the macro-related products like FX, rates and commodities was offset by lower levels of activity within the credit products space. And to remind you, our mix does remain more heavily weighted to credit products based on the size of our new issue business.

Equities trading was up 13% year over year driven largely by increased client activity within the Asia-Pacific region as well as a strong performance within the derivative area.

Slide 19 shows our Legacy Assets and Servicing business where we were profitable during the quarter given the net benefit in our rep and warrant provision. Revenue excluding this benefit did decline from the first quarter of 2015 on less favorable MSR hedge performance as well as lower servicing revenue. Litigation expense declined significantly from the second quarter of 2014.

Non-interest expense ex-litigation was roughly $900 million this quarter, improving $122 million from the first quarter of 2015 and $526 million going back to the second quarter of 2014. We remain on track to hit our fourth-quarter goal of approximately $800 million in LAS cost ex-litigation.

We were also pleased that during the quarter our number of 60-plus day delinquent loans decreased to 132,000 units. That's down 14% from the first quarter and almost 50% from the prior period of last year.

Before I move away from the mortgage space let me mention an important development in our legacy mortgage exposures. This quarter there was a closely watched case in New York's highest court which confirmed that the New York six-year statute of limitation on filing rep and warrant claims begins to run at the time the reps and warranties are made and not at some later point in time.

Based on our review of the relevant documents we believe the vast majority of the bank's remaining PLS representation and warranty obligations are governed by New York law. As a result of the case ruling you can see on slide 20, a significant $7.6 billion reduction in our gross outstanding private label claims as a result of certain claims now being time barred.

This ruling also had positive implications on our rep and warrant provision as I mentioned as well as the range of possible loss above those reserves. You recall, the RPL had been a range of up to $4 billion for several years and so the top end of that range has now been reduced to up to $2 billion.

On slide 21 we show all other. The $637 million of earnings this quarter resulted in a swing in profitability as a result of the improvement in the NII market-related adjustment from quarter to quarter as well as the prior-period inclusion of the annual retirement eligible incentive cost. The loan sales I mentioned earlier also included in revenue.

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 29% and I would expect the tax rate to be roughly 30% for the rest of 2015 absent unusual items like the recent UK tax reform proposals. Among the UK proposals were a reduction in the corporate tax rate, a surcharge tax on bank earnings and a reduction in the bank levy rate. Our preliminary read is that we could have a one-time charge of several hundred million dollars later in this year to reprice our UK deferred tax assets upon enactment.

At this time on an ongoing basis we expect a recurring tax impact to be modest. Before wrapping up on this slide let me remind you that our preferred dividends in the third quarter should be $440 million and $330 million in the fourth quarter of this year.

So to wrap up as Brian started the presentation with many things that our teams have been focused on for some time came together nicely this quarter and that enabled us to report more than $5 billion in earnings and move closer to our long-term targets. Revenue reflected relative stability, we lowered cost, we grew loans nicely, our credit quality remains very good and we're focused on operating leverage within the business. The foundation of the Company's balance sheet has never been stronger with record capital and record liquidity levels and we remain well-positioned to benefit from a rising rate environment.

With that let's go ahead and open it up for Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. The question I'm getting from people this morning is around the expenses. You showed some very nice improvement in core expenses coming down meaningfully Q on Q and year on year, and the question is have we reached the end state here or is there any further opportunity to bring down expenses from here?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think, Betsy, in the broadest context we continue to work expenses. If we talk to all of you about each quarter, 18 straight quarter reduction in core operating expenses outside litigation, 15 straight quarters of 3,000 people or more reduction each quarter. So we just continue to apply technology to continue to over the long term reduce expenses.

So the goal we have in SIM is to keep the expenses flat as revenue increases. And if the world economic situation changes different what people are expecting we'd have to look at it differently. But as you can see this quarter that will result in a constant downward pressure given where we are in the economy.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then on the reps and warranty side you had what looks like a little bit of a true-up based on this litigation decision. Is that the right way of reading it or is there potential even in more to come in the future as you go through these cases?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, clearly what the case is significant is this, Betsy. We looked at and as we do every quarter look at the rep and warrant provision and you're right it was a net benefit of $200 million this quarter.

I think the important thing I think more than the $200 million is if you look back on our slide 20 in the earnings materials the effect of the decision led to two things that do reduce tail risk on a go-forward basis. The first is you can see the number of new claims that came in was just over $200 million which is a dramatic improvement from what we've seen historically. And second as a result of the time barring of certain claims that the outstanding claims that we have, and keep in mind these outstanding claims are based on original UPB, came down fairly significantly to just below $19 billion.

So while it was nice to have the modest benefit that we did in the quarter I think importantly on a go-forward basis it does reduce the tail risk that's out there. We saw some of the benefits from that in the activity levels this quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks. And then just one last question.

You indicated the upside that you have in the event of a rate rise $3.9 billion if the parallel shift is 100 basis points. The question is how you're thinking about dropping that to the bottom line? Is there reinvestments that would take up some of that or are you at sufficient run rate in investment spend that you would be able to drop more to the bottom line?

BRUCE THOMPSON: There's no question, Betsy, as we look at and I'll just remind people that we were at $3.9 billion for a 100 basis point move. If you look at that roughly 60% of it is on the short end now. 40% of it is on the long end, and there's no question that we would expect to drop a significant portion of that to the bottom line if and when we see that 100 basis point move.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then just back to the expense side, the expense run rate that you've got right now is something you think you can hold at least if not improve from here, is that fair?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, Betsy, really to your last question we've been investing in headcount to open up a customer facing capacity. So I'd rather give you some of the statistics earlier, so we're comfortable from a technology spend rate, from an investment and client facing capacity, marketing and everything we're at a good run rate. So there'd be downward pressure as headcount continues to come down through the application of technology across the platform with customers internally.

So we're comfortable that we can continue to drive it. And make no bones about it this is what we work on every day and we're reluctant to put out a dollar target because frankly that tells the team we've made a goal and stop as opposed to just get better at it every day. So we are constantly working to improve the dynamics of revenue versus expense in this Company.

BETSY GRASECK: Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: If we look at the core net interest income ex- the market-related marks it was down a little bit versus last quarter but you're starting to see the loans inflect as you mentioned earlier. Do we start seeing stability in the core net interest income looking at next quarter or two or do we really need higher short-term rates for that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Thanks for the question. It's a good question. I think if you look at we typically have a little bit of seasonal pressure in the second quarter on NII so as we sit here today based on the curve we would expect to see the core net interest income which obviously excludes FAS 91 move up from Q2 to Q3 and we'd expect further growth from Q3 to Q4.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And that's without any benefit from rates?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's just based on the realization of what the existing curve is which quite frankly we don't look at and our models don't show Fed funds going up until January 2016. So there's not a lot of great benefit in that at all.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then on the discretionary book you mentioned it came down a little bit when you look out on a combined securities mortgages basis and I guess just we saw long-term rates go up and some banks have been increasing the discretionary book with higher reinvestment rates or higher investment rates here. What's the thought on bringing that book down as rates have gone up?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I have two comments. I think the first is that when we talked about the discretionary balances coming down that's basically the whole loan portfolio as well as certain pieces of the home equity portfolio. So we referenced that those came down about $15 billion quarter over quarter, half due to sales and half to paydowns.

We probably have one more quarter where you'll see some of the conversion of those loans to securities. But if you actually look at the amount of securities from a balanced perspective they went up a little bit Q1 to Q2 based on the conversion of those loans to securities. And as we continue to see the deposit footprint grow we will continue to invest and we're obviously mindful of the balance between increasing net interest income like I spoke about as well as being sensitive to OCI risk.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hey, good morning. Just a quick follow-up on the NIM outlook.

I think Bruce last quarter you mentioned that if the yield curve stayed where it was you'd have about $600 million of drag in NII over the next few quarters. Are you saying that that's pretty much changed with the steepening of the curve since April when you spoke last and not only NII is growing but NIM should stabilize or is it just sort of offsetting each other?

Are you getting a boost from that? How do we think about the yield curve versus your prior comment?

BRUCE THOMPSON: As we look and snap forward there are a lot of things that influence that number. One is obviously the ability and how much we've put the increase in deposits to work through growing loans and clearly we've seen during the second quarter we saw that loan growth move up which is obviously a good thing which lessens some of that sensitivity.

And as we look at the amount and what we're doing from an investment portfolio there's less to do during the second half of the year. So all in all as we look at those different factors it's why we're comfortable saying that we'd expect the core to increase both Q2 to Q3 as well as from Q3 to Q4.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, fair enough. And just on the capital side, when do you think the modifications become official and you exit the parallel run? How long do we think we have to wait for that and is there anything that could change in terms of your expectation around I guess the 90 basis point hit to your CET1?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think I can say that we can't say too much about regulatory matters. I think given the updated disclosure we've given you can assume that we're getting closer to having that resolved. You never know until you're ultimately done but we feel very comfortable with the guidance of 9.3% factoring in the adjustments based on where we were at the end of the second quarter and we'll look to get that wrapped up sooner than later.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, that's helpful. And just one last quick one on the $3.9 billion of sensitivity to higher rates, how much is FAS 91 related versus core?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. As I mentioned roughly 40% of it's long end which is $1.5 billion of the amount and roughly half of that is FAS 91 and half of it is non-FAS 91 related.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, thanks. Bruce just one more question on the rate sensitivity, the $3.9 billion move for 100 basis point parallel move I assume that illustration is to a 100 basis point move that's a shock or an instantaneous move in rates? Can you give us any feel for how that number would change if the move in rates is more gradual? As the Fed is saying if I go gradually how does that change if it's not instantaneous?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well I mean ultimately over time if you get to the 100 basis point number you have that, I think your point is that if they move 25 basis points is it 25% or is it more than 25%? And I think the thing that you have to keep in mind and we've talked about it a lot with what we would expect from a deposit repricing perspective that clearly you'd expect the first 25 to 50 basis points move up that we would not have to do much from a deposit perspective. So net-net on a relative basis that should be a positive as you look at the numbers.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And a clarification, where it is the gain on consumer real estate loans? Is that in the Mortgage Banking line?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, it's in other income and it's reflected in the All Other segment.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. The Mortgage Banking income was very strong on the fee income line, obviously you had the rep and warrant in there. Was there anything else in there that helped on the Mortgage Banking line?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I would say that generally that the hedge results on the MSR were fairly decent in the quarter and then like we've said there just wasn't much litigation during the quarter as well. So all of those things led to the results being where they are. But you're right we've typically had 100 to 200 of rep and warranty provision and we had 200 benefits, so you get a sense of the magnitude of the swing on a comparable period basis.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. Okay, and then last question for me on the credit, do you see the net charge-offs bouncing around the current level the $929 million and how do you see it playing out in terms of provision reserve release relative to what you just did this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think this quarter I think you're seeing a continuation of what we've been talking about and I want to be careful that I think we need to exclude DOJ both on the top as you did in your $929 million number as well as in the reserve release. So if you back out what we had for DOJ the reserve release was about 150, the charge-offs of $929 million were down roughly $75 million.

And while this can bounce around a little bit I think what you're likely to see over the next couple of quarters is probably a convergence where the charge-offs and the provision number become more closely aligned. And I would just say that particularly on the consumer side we continue to like what we see on credit and on the commercial side you can see that charge-offs are virtually nil within the large corporate space and there's nothing that we see out there that's going to change that materially.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And on top of that will the DOJ still be a factor for the next couple of quarters?

BRUCE THOMPSON: As it relates to that I want to think, John, that it will be in the $100 million type area as it relates to both charge-off and reserve release and then by the time we get to the fourth quarter it should virtually go away. It can bounce around a little bit but it should largely be gone by the end of the third quarter.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: But it pares off John so the way you subtract this quarter continue. So it's a number it's offset by a previously established reserve.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hi, thanks. Two quick ones on the average balance sheet.

When you look at the debt securities line, the yield went up some version of a lot from 2% to 3.2%. I'm assuming some of that is LAS loans converting, but could you give a little color on what drives that? Because the overall size of the book didn't change that much.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, it's interesting, if you look year over year and you adjust for FAS 91 which shows up in the NII when you're looking back at the table that the yields were almost identical from the second quarter of 2014 to the second quarter of 2015 once you make that 91 adjustment.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Similar but different question, inside the C&I book, the used commercial book it was just a 4 basis point drop quarter on quarter but there's growth there. So I'm just curious the trade-off between price and yield give up on the new loans you're putting on versus the responsible growth you talked about.

It doesn't seem that bad. I'm just curious on what kind of yield you're putting new loans on?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. I think when you look at commercial loan spreads there are two things that those numbers reflect. I think the first thing which just from a macro perspective that has been a little bit of compression although we're seeing it slow as it relates to just the competitive landscape and where loans are getting done.

As it relates to your question about the new loans, the responsible growth, if you looked at in particularly in the areas that picked up during the second quarter that on our risk rating scale they would translate to credits that tend to be in the strong BBB or a single 8 area so that they are largely investment-grade type credits where we're extending it and if you look at average spreads in that area they tend to be in the LIBOR plus 150 type area on average which is a little bit lower than the average across the commercial platform. But as you can see the credit is clearly at the upper end.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So Glenn it's probably say if you think about it we're not on credit structure we held our discipline, on price there's been pressure but then you have to look at that on a whole relationship basis with the other fees and revenues you get from cash management and stuff. And we try to have a client focused discipline to do it. But your observation is right, there is a little pressure on those spreads due to that.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, I definitely appreciate that. Last one is when you talk about the pushing for growth and you mentioned the different specialists in the branches, the Business Banking, the financial investment consultants, I'm curious what are you doing to incent and to encourage them? In other words are there actual incentives or do they get paid on their production?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: In the sales context there is there are incentives for production but it has to be done the right way with the right customers in the right structure so it is not -- it doesn't drive their behavior. It's different than let's say the Wealth Management business in terms of the balance between incentives.

But yes they are paid to open, the mortgage loan officers are paid to produce mortgages and to open up checking accounts and other things. But it's really, it's actually deploying the people and building the capacity to sell, that's where we are reducing the need for services through all the automation that's going on and shifting that group of people.

So that it is really just having more of them than think of it as incentive driven behavior. And then really then having the information at the point of the sale through our technology of offers that have been made to people for credit cards, etc., so you can make the offer again that's already been made to them online or something. So it's a combination of sales practices, more people and then just the discipline of the team, Tom, Glenn and Dena (inaudible) then it would be incentive driven.

GLENN SCHORR: All right. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thanks very much. Just to follow up a little bit on that last point, when I was trying to shift through the core loan growth numbers this morning it looked like the core loan growth coming out of the institutional bank and the Wealth Management looked strong but I'm still unclear what the core level of growth was inside the consumer organization and so I'm just trying to reconcile that with where the incremental hiring is occurring on the sales front. So can you just clarify what the core level of consumer growth was?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well as you look at the consumer on page 5 you can see the balances and you can see the different pieces. We had change of practice of how we booked residential mortgages for our consumer customers that has an impact on that. But overall you remember they're still fighting a couple -- we're still fighting a couple of things on consumer.

One is the card balances are finally stabilize and you saw from first quarter to second quarter a slight uptick there. That's because we've been hitting increasingly record sales of credit cards so I think we did about $1.3 million this quarter, Bruce, that is again a record for us and since we changed the business model six, seven years ago. And if you look at -- but if you look at things like the home-equity balances and things like that those are under pressure just because we're still seeing significant repayments even though we're producing a lot in that area.

So if you look at that you can see it's across the board just a little bit upside tilt, in part the interplay between some of the runoff in the other category and the buildup in residential. But they do a lot more than sell loans in that place and so the investment sales levels that drives that Merrill Edge, in fact at the FSAs and the branches that we deploy do $4 million of notional on average a month of new investment products. In building $4 million to $5 million they sell obviously checking accounts, net checking accounts this quarter.

We're in a net checking account growth position even taking into account the runoff from divestitures and other things and then you have the loan side. So they are responsible for driving all that and so it shows up in the loans a little bit but also that's why the feed category is stable in other areas.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: And so do you have a sense or is there some sense maybe you can give us to how that investment in front office staff is contributing to growth outside of the segment?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, for example in the small-business arena in the first half of the year we did about $5 billion of originations and what the world would define as small business we have it across two divisions and they helped grow that. Merchant services growth, you know they sell that goes into the Business Banking -- Global Banking segment and they sent about 20,000 customers a year into Wealth Management that literally walk in a branch are wealthy and they get moved over and that helps our Wealth Management business.

So you can't think of -- you're right. That salesforce does what it does in the segment but it has the benefit across the board and then service is a lot for all customers.

Business Banking, Commercial Banking customers come into the branches obviously for the cash -- related to the cash management revenue. So it is across the board and contributes and so the good news is they are making more money than they made last year on their own but they are still providing that services and capabilities across the platform.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: And so when this is my final question on this if we divorce just the runoff from some of the legacy assets that are still occurring, would you expect the core consumer asset growth to accelerate as a consequence of this investment or do you think that it's currently run rating?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: As the runoff subsides in the consumer categories this is Consumer Banking here and then you've got the LAS piece, the LAS home equities will continue to go down because frankly those are products we put in there because we decided not to do them. But on the consumer you should see as it stabilizes you'll see a little bit better loan growth.

But remember that focus on the responsive part of responsible growth we're not going to open up the credit card business in a way that will produce charge-off later down the road that we won't be happy with. So we are driving that growth into the core strong credit quality that we want to have in this Company. And so I'd be careful about assuming it will just leap to us because to do that you'd have to go into credit postures that we won't do.

BRUCE THOMPSON: And I would just add, Brian, if you look at home-equity it's a good example where if you look within the consumer banking space during the second quarter of this year the home equity originations of line amounts were about $3.2 billion. They were to loan to value less than 60%, FICOs deep into the 700s and so there were more than $3 billion of those booked.

It's number one market share, roughly $1.5 billion of that was funded, but you do have some of the legacy stuff that's running off. So I think when you wonder about activity levels and what's happening I think you need to realize that with that number one share in what we're doing it is growing. It's just that there is a runoff that mutes that effect.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great, thanks very much for the answers to all my questions.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks, good morning. First question just on the RWAs, looks like when you look at the reconciliation of the move to fully phased-in there is a little bit of a help on the advanced models this quarter and just in a general sense obviously we still have that finalization to come but what additional tweaks are you working on inside the models and what additional mitigation could we still see from here on the RWA side?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think there are couple of things. We're obviously working hard to move as many of the exposures from CEM treatment to IMM treatment which generally has favorable benefit there.

The second thing I talked about better collateral management as well as looking to work to do more compression and to net things out and we continued to see some benefit there. I think third is we continue to move out and we're largely through this but as we continue to move out some of the non-performing consumer real estate as well as the benefits of improved consumer credit quality, we're seeing benefits there. And there still are a few RMBS and other type positions that we'd expect to get benefit for over the next couple of quarters.

So I think this quarter was clearly a quarter between the activities that we undertook as well as what happened from a rates and FX perspective where we saw pretty good quarter-over-quarter improvement. And obviously that was not only in the markets business but also in the consumer businesses.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I'd say, Bruce, the other thing we have a healthy dose of operating capital due to the operating risk embedded from Countrywide and other things that we have to figure out over time how we can work through the system because we never did the activities in the Company but on the other hand we had to deal with the cost of them. And so both operating and general, so as you think about that longer term we had to get a more rational view of that operating risk relative to the Company we run today which is different but that will take time and working through the models there too.

KEN USDIN: Okay. And then my second question relates to the Wealth Management business and Bruce you alluded to there being a little bit of a slowdown on the revenue. So if a look at the segment or the line item on the income statement there has been a deceleration, advisor productivity looks a little bit lower and you've added a lot of people. You've added a lot of assets.

So I'm just wondering what do we need to see to get a re-acceleration of the revenue side in brokerage and Wealth Management? And is it just a time lag relative to those additions?

BRUCE THOMPSON: A couple of points on that. I think first there's clearly a building up of advisors particularly if we're bringing them in and training them, that there's a ramp up in productivity that occurs. I don't think there's any question.

The second thing that I do think is important is that when you look at the net interest income line that as I mentioned it looked a little bit muted, if you saw gross loan net interest income you would see this increasing. So some of the push out of the ALM activities has muted the NII line a little bit.

And then the third thing which you reference that I do think is a little bit more of a trend and I think is not only is somewhat consistent with some of the regulatory standards which we're seeing more and more of the assets that we manage being managed on a long-term basis where we're managing them. And so that's leading to growth in the asset management fees and the corollary to that is that you do have lower brokerage income but net-net you can see that we are growing in the segment and we feel good about the activity that we're seeing there.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And I'd say that the few quarters we saw the margin, the pretax margin come down and you're seeing it start to turn back and go up. And there's positive pressure out in the future on that at the end of this year because of some of the deal stuff runs off will add a couple of points to margin that it's in the numbers this year but won't be in the numbers next year.

And then your point is the maturity of the investment cycle so if you go back we're adding financial advisors, their books are coming in, they're building the books and as that maturity happens you'll see it match a little better. But the encouraging signs we're seeing the margin comeback up.

And remember this business also benefits a lot by the rate changes, too, ultimately. It is a big bank, it's got $250 billion deposits, round numbers, a lot of loans, and it has a lot of the same sensitivity our Consumer Bank does that people don't think of it in this context.

So as we think about the comp structure is in place but there's an added deal piece that runs off you're seeing the maturity cycle of the people coming up. And the team is just working hard on the revenue expense management and we started to see some better signs they've got some work to do still though.

KEN USDIN: Understood. Okay, thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES CO., LTD.: Hi, good morning. So I have a couple of questions on the topic of capital.

The first is a follow-up to Ken's earlier question regarding RWA mitigation potential. And Bruce I do appreciate the color you cited relating to all the mitigation opportunities on the horizon. I'm just trying to get a better sense given your efforts to grow the core loan portfolio how we should be thinking about the trajectory in advanced RWAs, maybe excluding the upward adjustment tied to the regulatory guidance just to give us a sense as to what that trajectory should look like over the next couple of quarters?

BRUCE THOMPSON: You make me the caveat that this assumes that we don't have a significant change one way in market conditions because obviously there's a part of Basel III that's somewhat pro cyclical. But I think net-net if we do a good job of managing this the way that we would expect to that absent any exogenous changes we should be able in the institutional business which is both Global Banking as well as sales and trading that we should be able to grow loans while at the same time have reductions in the overall risk-weighted assets that are attributed to that area. Now where you will probably see it be more dollar for dollar is obviously under standardized those loans tend to be every dollar of loan is a dollar of RWA so you have to be a little bit careful between which method you're looking at.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay. But presumably the focus at least on your part is going to be on mitigating the advanced RWAs given that that appears to be your longer-term binding constraint.

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's both because you're right, as it relates to a ratio pro forma for this it is the lower number. But keep in mind you have to keep the focus on standardized as well because at least based on last year's CCAR as well as guidance that's out there standardized is very important from a CCAR perspective.

STEVEN CHUBAK: No, understood. Okay and then actually it's a great transition to my next question on the topic of G-SIB surcharges where I'm sure you're aware there's been some discussion around the possibility of incorporating the surcharges within CCAR. And I was just hoping to get a better sense as to what contingency plans you might have in place if the surcharge were to be included and are there opportunities that you see to sufficiently mitigate the G-SIB indicators so that you could move into a lower bucket?

BRUCE THOMPSON: A couple of things on that front. The first is as it relates to G-SIB, their application, where they may or may not be used, at this point while we participate in industry forums I think that the supervisory area has been very transparent and sharing much of the same things that they share with us you are also aware of. So I think that the information is fairly disseminated amongst everyone.

As it relates to contingency planning it's really an ongoing continuation of what we did from 2013 to 2014 which if you recall is related to our quantitative CCAR results in a timeframe where we didn't have significant levels of net income that our CCAR cushion grew significantly. So what are we doing to focus on that? On the investment portfolio we're mindful of managing OCI risk given that it flows through the overall CCAR process.

We continue to be very focused on moving out those loans and those assets that have higher loss content and at the same time making sure that the originations that we put on were of the highest quality. So we continue to focus on that.

If you look at the overall risk that's being taken within the markets business, we're managing that so that there's not a surprise as it relates to that. And clearly we continue to work hard to move out those exposures that have high loss content there.

So I think I would say it's really much more of a continuation of the work that we've been at for several years now. And we're mindful of making sure that we continue to push that stuff out at the same time that we're originating those things that we'll perform well as part of that overall exercise.

STEVEN CHUBAK: All right. Thanks Bruce. That detail is extremely helpful.

And then one more quick final one for me. I was hoping you can give us an update on where your TLAC ratio sit today?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think that the TLAC ratio as it relates to where we are and this assumes that we exclude stuff that's less than a year, I think the TLAC ratio is roughly 21% at this point, we'll have to see the deducts that come in and out of that based on G-SIB and other things. But I think we're just below 21% at the end of the quarter.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay, great. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Thanks for taking the question.

A quick one on Wealth Management. Is it possible for you to quantify for us how much of your total Wealth Management client assets are in retirement accounts and of that, what percentage are advisory?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We'll let Lee get back to you on that. I don't have that off the top of my head in terms of -- I just don't have that fact right in front of me.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. Just the whole idea there is trying to get at the DOL proposal and maybe what could be potential downside even based on how it all gets finalized understanding that it's preliminary at this point.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yep, Lee can fill you in on that.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. And then looking at the branch declines that you guys referenced earlier should we count on the 5% year over year as a reasonable decline rate sustainable from here given the trends that you're seeing in your mobile platform? And could this potentially add additional juice to your expense declines beyond the business as usual type pushing that you've spent a lot of time talking about here on the call today?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So let's step back and make sure that we understand one thing is the idea here is we're moving because the customers are moving and how they conduct business. And so you've got to run your changes consistent with what they're doing. That's a baseline that you have to stick to because if you forget that you can overshoot or undershoot frankly and so that being said that's one point.

The second point is in the 6,100 branches that we had at the peak down to this level there were multiple things we were doing, customer behavior changes, change in the configuration of the markets we attack, etc., so there are lots of elements. So now we're now on a business as usual ongoing practice which will really be driven more by the customer behavior as opposed to some viewpoints we have about markets and arranging the franchise.

So I'd expect that they will continue to work themselves down and I wouldn't predict a steady rate because it's a very complex equation but then let's flip to what's really going on. As Bruce talked about earlier we have 17.6 million mobile users. We have 31 million bank computer banking users, that number is actually growing again.

For a while it was kind of flat, it's actually growing, so it's interesting that that's happening. 16% of all our sales are all digital now. About 6% of the sales of digital which is computers and mobile are mobile and that's growing at 300% so it's catching up.

And then you get things which are interesting because it goes to the efficiency of your branch. There are about 10,000 appointments scheduled in a mobile device a week at the branch which then allows us to have a more efficient branch structure. Even though we may have less we may have bigger branches because you have more sales going on in them.

So think about that, that's up from 2,000 last year, second quarter of 10,000 times a week now and growing at that rate implied there. People are scheduling appointments to come see us which is a lot better experience for us and then to help us to serve them.

So it allows us to have our staffing levels done. Bruce referenced the checks deposited are 13% of all the checks so the activity of all this is critical to that question. So I won't give you a 5% reduction or 4% reduction.

I think you can mathematically derive what we've done. But I'd be careful about assuming it will be that ratable but it will be more based in behavior change. But the key is our customer scores have gone up overall and even in the mobile channels we've gone up year over year 1,000 basis points in our mobile channel, top two box satisfaction.

So it will be a complex thing. It's an integrated pool of capabilities. Phones, online ATA and branches and you'd expect it to be pressure going down but remember we were early into this and if you think about 1,400 branches that's bigger than a lot of companies out there already out of the system. So we've been at this for a long time but we will do it the right way because if you push too hard you will upset the client.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: That's helpful color, Brian. Thanks. And then last one for me you made a reference earlier to a couple of points margin from the employee forgivable loan amortization dropping off next year.

Is next year a bump in the trend or is that indicative of potential further declines in forgivable loans as they continue to roll off? And does it assume some level of counter pressure offsetting pressure from continued recruiting? And maybe a little update on the recruiting environment for FAs would be helpful.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: What I'm referencing is discrete away from the entire recruiting process. This is a -- was set up at the time of the transaction for a group of people at that time and it just came in over the years and it's not this last year it goes away.

The forgivable loan practice and all the other stuff in recruiting is a whole different thing. But for John in key banks and the teams they're successfully recruiting on the experience level the attritions for the top two quintile financial advisors is at an all-time low, I think again I think it's running at 2% or something like that. So we're retaining those and then we're recruiting at both the experienced level but importantly what is obvious to us is to drive the amount of client need here, drive against the client need which is huge and underserved in our belief.

We had to create more advisors than there are out there and so we've really worked hard on what they call the PMD program which is basically bringing people in the business who may have experience in other firms by bringing them into our firm and also other industries into our firm. And that is now reaping benefits to us given we've been working on it for two or three years to retool it and drive it.

So you should expect our advisor count to go up and our productivity may come down per advisor. But frankly there's a lot of business where remember our value predict is 1 million and so on so bringing it down a little bit to get a lot more growth, a lot more growth in advisors would not be -- would be a great trade for our Company.

So our recruiting is strong. We're net doing a decent job at the higher end that you hear a lot about, that is not a big part of the advisor count, several hundred a year, like in a couple 200, 300.

But what's going to drive our advisor and capabilities to serve our clients is the broader buildout of the teams which is the BFAs and the PMDs that work at the branches in some cases and work with people. And that should redound to our benefit over time although it will have a little drag on profitability right now because it's investment.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Great, thanks for that.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thank you. I wanted to ask about the asset liability management.

When you look at the market adjustments that you had of $669 million this quarter, as rates go up there is less and less impact from that. How much is remaining in the next 50 basis points in just the prepayment speed slowing down?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I don't have 50 basis points, Marty, but the number we quoted was on a 100 basis point move the FAS 91 benefit would be $775 million.

MARTY MOSBY: Okay. Perfect. And then when you're talking about being able to see the margin go up in the back half of the year because of the current steepness of the yield curve does that include some utilization in the sense of increasing your securities portfolio while you invest some of the liquid assets you have on the balance sheet?

BRUCE THOMPSON: There's clearly some of that because we would expect as we go forward with the composition of the balance sheet that there will be incremental cash that's generated. Obviously some of that goes into loan growth and some of it goes into the investment portfolio. So embedded in that those comments is an assumption that there will be a little bit more to be invested.

MARTY MOSBY: (multiple speakers) range $10 billion, $20 billion, $30 billion, any kind of rule of thumb there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I would think of it as on the low end of that during the third quarter and a comparable amount in the fourth. And there's one other thing that I did want to correct that I said earlier that if you look at the securities balances yield the stability that we saw once you adjust for FAS 91 was Q1 to Q2.

MARTY MOSBY: Got you. And lastly this is a nuance but when you look at the trading activity typically in the past when I had a trading activity in the bank that I was managing when you had a steepening of the yield curve you get some pickup because you're getting the current long-term yield funded by short-term rates. The rate on the trading activity account did not go up this quarter but averaging into the next quarter would you expect some benefit there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think if you look at -- I think the important thing is that so that rate tends to manifest itself in the market based NII. There are a lot of things that drive that when rates move around as much as they have but I don't think there's any question that over time as you're in an increasing rate environment that there is a part of the yield component that flows through NII that you would expect to get a little bit better.

MARTY MOSBY: I'm just more focused on the steepness versus the flattening of the yield curve. A steeper yield curve typically brings a little better spread on the trading account?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It would but the question is it works its way through but if you look across long periods of time it's relatively constant.

MARTY MOSBY: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Hi, good morning. Guys, just another liquidity issue. Could you just tell us what's on deposit, what excess deposits you've got with the Fed now and what your plans are for those going forward?

BRUCE THOMPSON: At any one point in time it can move around but you should assume it's comfortably above $100 billion that's on the Fed in any one night during the quarter. And I think that when you look at where we are with LCR where we are at both the parent as well as the bank, that I think and $484 billion of overall liquidity which is a record that we feel we're in a reasonable place and I don't see significant changes going forward, Nancy.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, you mean in overall liquidity or at liquidity on deposit with the Fed?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Probably both.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, that's a lot of liquidity. My second question, Brian is for you.

You've gone through a lot of change over the past few years and this transition to mobile, etc., etc., but one of the things I still get from talking to people are persistent gripes about service quality particularly in the mortgage company. Can you just tell us what your internal polling or whatever shows in terms of improvements in credit quality and how you feel about that entire subject?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: In the mortgage business, for example the bank originators we're number one in JD Power survey and I think we're number two or three overall of all mortgage companies. So I think in terms of originating mortgage loans a guy name Steve Boland runs that for us has gotten that platform settled in and you'll get momentary spikes where the refis will bump up and things slow down.

From a get the loan done, from keeping our credit quality where we wanted that ends up with us having some noise around people who don't get mortgages. So we did $15 billion or whatever we did this quarter, 30% of those loans were moderate income so we're still serving that segment. But again we are not pushing for credit terms and mortgage and I think you'd understand why, Nancy.

NANCY BUSH: But how about just more the issue of service quality at the branches, etc.?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, if you look at our customer scores continue to rise almost on a monthly basis and in the broadest context our brand and part of that is due to what happens at the branch. Part of it is also due to there's less stuff going on about the Company and that's gone from the low point in the fourth-quarter 2009 and has rose fairly steadily. So it's been in fact back to within 95% of where it was at it is highest point in 2005 and 2006.

So with that we're satisfied. And if you actually go to the customers who actually get served when we measure all the channels which we measure with tens of thousands of customers a week and a month you find that those scores continue to go up and the top two box score I think we're in the 70s to 80s of the various channels and including mortgage.

So because you just have a lot of customers you'll find out that once in a while we're bumping up in our jobs to fix something we do but if you think about it we've added mortgage production, checking accounts net new, credit cards and that's the ramification of good service and driving it and the team just continues to work on it. We're not perfect and we will always get better but I think if you look at it over the last three or four years it continues to get better.

NANCY BUSH: All right. Thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And by the way if you look at our deposit growth it continues to accelerate in over the top of the CDs continue to run off year over year of $10 billion. So we're up $31 billion in deposits and consumer year over year I think it has and CDs were probably down I don't know $10 billion or so.

So think about that if people didn't like us a lot they wouldn't be giving us their core checking account and that is happening more and more every quarter. And that will serve us well as rates change because we are a hugely primary focus checking account company in the broad mass-market business which is different than the past.

NANCY BUSH: All right. Good to hear. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, I just wanted to follow up on Betsy's question at the start talking about expenses being at a run rate or maybe going lower. The expenses are down $400 million year over year but if you look at your four business lines the revenues are down twice that implying a lot of the rest is coming through the other line. So I guess I'm just wondering how much more there is to cut or should cut if the expenses are down again $400 million but the revenues in the four business lines are down $800 million? How do you balance that trade-off?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think the first thing that you have to keep in mind, Mike, when you quote the numbers within the business is on a year-over-year basis you have two significant things happening. You've had FAS 91 in a significant movement in rates as it relates to push out of those charges as well as we push the LCR out to the businesses from a reported segment perspective that has a significant impact.

And so I think as we've gone through the presentation that the numbers that I would focus on are very much what's going on within the segments looking at the fee income line because there is activity from a net interest income perspective of greater activity within the businesses. So I'd be a little bit careful with that characterization and I think in that context I'd go back to Brian's initial comments which we continue to push hard, we're adding client facing personnel across the Company, at the same time we're reducing aggregate headcount and that's leading to declines in the expense numbers and we're very, very focused on continuing to keep that balance as we go forward.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Just to understand because I'm just looking at your slides, slide 17 and the other slides in your presentation today, I looked at the four slides related to GWIM, Global Banking, Global Markets and Consumer Banking, I took second quarter of 2015 versus second quarter of 2014 and looked at the delta in revenues and that's how I got the $800 million decline. So you would say which adjustments should we make from that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Don't take GWIM because I got that number off the top of my head Mike. I think year over year the difference in GWIM NII allocation due to sort of unfundamental things is Bruce how much of --

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, let's just go through. Relative to the second quarter of 2014 you've got consumer from an overall NII impact was more than $200 million. GWIM was as Brian said roughly $130 million, overall Investment Bank, our Global Banking was a couple hundred million and then you have de minimis amounts within markets and LAS.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: That is nothing more than us changing the allocation method, it's because of LCR and other things becoming important. So we pushed down the businesses to get the behavior of the businesses aligned with the parent.

So this is why you have to be a little careful about micro assessing these movements because things change in the methodology year over year and we don't go back and restate this. We didn't do it last year.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. I will follow up on that. So are you comfortable, are you satisfied with the revenue progression that you've had no matter how you take a look at it?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Mike, we are satisfied that we are starting to see the hard work of all our teammates come through but we're not satisfied in the sense that we expect better performance on both the revenue expense dynamic in the future. That's -- we'll keep working at it.

But if you look at it over the last several quarters what you've seen in stability in revenues but continue to work on expenses both in the dollars but also in the headcount. 15 straight quarters, 3,000 more personnel reductions per quarter is a pretty strong record to show that we're disciplined in workers.

MIKE MAYO: And then a separate question, I think it's the first time you've listed ROA and ROE on the first page of your press release. And should we read anything into that that we're more focused on achieving these targets with a specific timeframe or what changed?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It may be the pagination. It's been listed in our documents consistently. (Multiple speakers) focused on those goals and we've told you that each time you've asked the question.

MIKE MAYO: And then lastly just, I know I've asked this question before is there a specific timeframe that you can commit to to achieve your ROA and ROE goals?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Mike, as I told you at the Annual Meeting when you were there with a few other people and asking the questions on this question, we had the building blocks in place to get us to where we are and we can see the building blocks falling in place to get us to our goals. And there are external factors, the rate increase and stuff that you see in the market curve that's changed just in the last 15 days in this quarter and has moved around dramatically. But with our control of elements we continue to drive and we see the progression towards it over the next several quarters like we told you.

BRUCE THOMPSON: And I think, Mike, just to be clear we've talked about 100 basis points and 12% to 14% return on tangible common equity. Obviously at 99 basis points we're bumping right up against that.

And I think what's important is as you look to the path to what we've talked about we're basically there in the second quarter, you could say you had the $700 million in FAS 91, the $400 million of loan sale gains and a couple hundred million dollars from rep and warrant provisions. But what I think is interesting and as you look at the path there is if you look at and assume the 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve what that would mean in the quarter as well as if we ultimately get to where our LAS expense goals are you're basically back to all other things being equal where we were this quarter. So what was articulated is something where you couldn't see a path or a way to get there, I think it was a step forward this quarter as far as seeing how we can get there.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Christopher Wheeler, Atlantic Equity.

CHRISTOPHER WHEELER, ANALYST, ATLANTIC EQUITY: Yes, good morning gentlemen and I'm sorry to raise the subject of cost again. But I just want to square away what you said I think to Betsy's question at the very beginning to what you said at the conference back in May when you actually said that if trading revenues didn't pick up you'd have to adjust costs further. I just wondered where you were on that because obviously trading revenues were down about 2% year on year I think in the quarter and I'm having to assume that the start to the quarter has been pretty bumpy with Greece and China.

So could you just talk a little bit about how you see that? But perhaps also talk a little bit about how you might address that situation in global markets and global banking in respect of the US business and the international businesses? Because it is really clear that the US business seems to be offering more opportunities not just because they are more buoyant but also because you're seeing European banks play a lesser role.

And obviously seeing three of the big banks get new CEOs in the last few weeks I hardly imagine they are going to be allocating more capital to Investment Banking. Thank you.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Let me take a stab at a couple of parts of that question. The first is and I think you referenced that what would you do if global market expenses were lower on a go-forward basis? I think this quarter was reflective of the way you'd expect us to manage it which is the pure sales and trading number was down 2% and total expenses within the segment were down 5%.

So I think some of what Brian communicated inmate you saw evidence of that happening during the quarter. The second thing that I would say is that it's obviously earlier in the quarter but I wouldn't draw any conclusions as to overall performance based on the volatility that we've seen during the first couple of weeks to the negative.

And then third I think your question was and is just that with what's going on within some of the European banks as well as changes in management and questions around capital, how does that translate and what are you seeing in the US business? I think what I would say is that we obviously have significant share in the US business. We're looking to do a better job of that and I think that as you look at some of the loan growth that we've seen that it is reflective of the fact that we're deepening in the US but just as importantly that loan growth is not only in the US, it's throughout Europe.

There's been a little bit in Latin America and there's been growth in Asia-Pac. So we are looking to use some of these market opportunities as a basis to deepen and look to grow the overall global banking segment.

CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: Thanks very much. Thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well thank you everyone. That's the last question. We look forward to talking to you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's program. You may now disconnect at any time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150716eb7f001e3
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
15,061 words
   PD
15 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Bank of America earnings announcement conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode but later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session. Please note that this call is being recorded.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Lee McEntire. Please go ahead.

LEE MCENTIRE, SVP, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Thanks to everyone on the phone as well as the webcast for joining us this morning for the first quarter results. Hopefully everybody had a chance to review the earnings release documents that are available on the website.

Before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce, let me just remind you we may make forward-looking statements. For further information on those please refer to either our earnings release documents, our website or other SEC filings.

So with that, let me turn it over to Brian Moynihan, our CEO, for some opening comments before Bruce goes through the details. Brian?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Lee, and good morning and welcome everyone to the earnings call for our first quarter of 2015.

I am going to start on slide two. So the highlights are there. We earned a $3.4 billion after tax in the quarter, which is up both on a linked quarter and year-over-year basis. We continue to work to drive growth in all our core businesses. We are beginning to see it overcome the run off with non-core portfolios in many areas. At the same time, we continue to focus on managing expenses carefully. As a result, we are beginning to see more predictable earnings with more improvement expected ahead.

Both capital and liquidity remain at record levels in our Company. We expect to return more capital to shareholders this year than we have in the past.

Revenue on an adjusted basis was $21.9 billion for the quarter. From the top of the house, revenue remains challenging in an environment with below trend economic growth and rate environment which comes from that. In addition, we remain faithful to our customer strategy with strong risk management and risk appetite to ensure we do not repeat the outsized credit losses of the past. With that said, we are seeing our core business stabilizing across the drivers of the revenue.

This quarter we saw continued growth in our wealth management revenues and a rebound from the fourth quarter in trading revenue. In our loan and deposit areas, we saw continued core growth albeit subject to continued spread contraction.

Our expense management efforts continue. The year-over-year expenses, excluding litigation costs, are down 6%. Including litigation costs, year-over-year expenses are down 30%. We continue to see our efficiency efforts drive forward beyond New BAC through our simplified and improved program.

We also continue to see progress on LAS expense. As proof of our efforts for the quarter we ended with our headcount at a little under 220,000 full-time employees, a reduction of 4000 employees for the quarter, about 2% and 19,000 employees year-over-year, or 8%. For the quarter this reduction came to about 35% from LAS and about 65% from the rest of the Company. To put it in a broad context, we are approaching employment levels where we were in early 2008 prior to bringing in over 100,000 people from Countrywide and Merrill acquisition. We are doing that to the investments we are making in technology to reduce costs and they continue to take hold. And we will continue to drive this effort even as the economy continues to improve and rates rise helping keep balance to our operating leverage.

During the last year even while we were reducing those costs and headcount, we continued to invest in the client facing growth capacity in this Company. We've added financial advisors in U.S. Trust and in Merrill Lynch, focused on building for the future. We have added commercial bankers in all our Global Banking areas to help fill in our franchise. We have added new financial centers in areas of opportunity and we continue to invest in products and innovation as well as efficiency. A simple example is our Consumer Mobile Banking space where we now have 17 million mobile banking customers, up over 2 million from last year.

Turning to slide three, you can see what we simply need to do. Each of the four core lines of businesses on the left-hand part of the slide earned above our cost of capital for this quarter. In addition, the aggregate earnings for all those businesses were $4.4 billion after tax. The LAS segment had a much smaller loss this quarter showing we are making progress.

The other area on the right-hand side of the slide has affected this quarter by the impacts of retirement eligible incentive costs and the market related NII adjustments which affect top of the house earnings. They are booked there in distributed business over the quarters. But this shows that we need to keep working LAS to get it to break even and the other will take care of itself in subsequent quarters.

Turning to slide four, with regard to CCAR, as previously disclosed, we received a conditional non-objection to our capital plan. We received the approval for our requested capital actions that we requested in the original submission, a dividend of $0.05 per share and $4 billion of stock repurchase on the relevant periods. As you can see, the cushion we have increased from about $2 billion last year under the tightest constraint to over $22 billion this year, in both of those cases under the tightest constraint after all capital actions.

These quantitative results bode well. However, the conditional approval is an area with which we are focusing. We are focusing our energy to the September resubmission and beyond. Our efforts are well underway. We are bringing additional resources to task. We simply have to be the best at CCAR to meet our shareholder objectives in our Company. To ensure that we achieve that success, I have asked Terry Laughlin to lead our efforts. As many of you know, Terry helped us clean up the mortgage issues over the last several years.

I can assure you that our Board and management are extremely focused on our resubmission and our core process improvement for CCAR 2016 next year. Terry has retained a team of external experts, increased the internal staffing to ensure we are successful. We have had in depth discussions with our regulators regarding the particular specified issues that we need to remediate with the resubmission and we are focused on getting that done by September.

With that, I will turn that over to Bruce.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. I'm going to start on slide five. As Brian mentioned, we recorded $3.4 billion of earnings in the first quarter or $0.27 per diluted share. That compares to $0.25 a share in the fourth quarter of 2014 and a loss of $0.05 if we go back to the first quarter of 2014. I'd like to note a few items as you review these results.

Both first-quarter periods include $1 billion in expense for the annual cost of retirement eligible incentives awarded. This was $0.06 in EPS impact in each of the first-quarter periods. The first quarter of 2015 also includes a negative market related adjustment to net interest income of $484 million for the acceleration of bond premium amortization on our debt securities that is driven by lower long-term rates. That cost us $0.03 in EPS during the quarter.

The other large item that is worth noting as you look at the comparisons is the outsized litigation amount of $6 billion in the first quarter of 2014.

I'd like to spend just a moment on total revenue comparisons. Our first quarter of 2015 revenue on an FTE basis if we exclude the market related adjustment to NII and a small DVA adjustment, was $21.9 billion during the quarter. If we compare that to the fourth quarter of 2014 and adjust for the same items, revenue is up $1.7 billion or 8% and that 8% increase is attributable to a rebound in sales and trading results as well as higher mortgage banking income and is offset somewhat by lower net interest income mostly from two fewer days during the quarter.

If we compare back to the first quarter of 2014 and we further adjust for $800 million in equity investment gains as a result of monetizing a single strategic investment in the year-ago period, revenue is now a couple hundred million dollars or 1% and that is from lower net interest income and lower sales in trading results.

Total noninterest expense during the quarter was $15.7 billion and included the $1 billion in retirement eligible costs as well as $370 million in litigation expense. I will go through the comparisons from an expense perspective several slides back.

As we look at provision for credit losses during the quarter, they were $765 million and included $429 million in reserve release versus $660 million in the fourth quarter of 2014. Preferred dividends during the first quarter were $382 million and as you all look to update your models given the preferred issuances that we have had the majority of which pay semiannually as you look at preferred dividends, they should be roughly $330 million in the second and fourth quarters and $440 million in the first and third quarters going forward based on our existing preferred footprint.

Let's go ahead and move to slide six on the balance sheet. Our balance sheet was up slightly to $2.14 trillion and that was driven almost exclusively by cash balances associated with the deposit growth that we saw during the quarter. We continued our focus on balance sheet optimization for liquidity as we continued to ship some of our discretionary portfolio first lien loans into HQLA eligible securities.

Loans on a period end basis were down modestly reflecting good core loan activity in both our Global Banking as well as our Wealth Management segments. That was more than offset by seasonally lower card balances in our discretionary consumer real estate area as well as run-off portfolios.

Deposits were up $34 billion or 3% from the end of the year and some of that obviously has to do with seasonal tax activity. We issued $3 billion of preferred stock in the quarter that benefitted regulatory capital and as you look at common shareholders' equity, you can see it improved driven both by earnings growth as well as improved OCI. As a result of these factors, tangible book value increased to $14.79, 7% higher than 12 months ago and our tangible common equity ratio improved to 7.5%.

The last point that I would note is that we did add a slide in the appendix as we updated our capital allocations across the segments coming into 2015 and the returns that we show you are reflective of those updated capital allocations.

Let's go ahead and flip to slide seven and go through loans. From several calls, we are as frequently about the decline in reported loans which are down modestly again from the fourth quarter levels as you can see in the upper left-hand chart. I want to make a few points though as we go through this.

As we have discussed many times, much of the movement in loans has been driven by two pieces of non-core loans. The first relates to shifts in our discretionary mortgage loan levels that are used to manage interest rate risk and predominantly recorded in the all other unit. Many times based on the investment decisions that we make, these loans are replaced with debt securities on the balance sheet.

The other component as you look at loans to consider is the run-off that we have within our LAS unit, which are mostly home equity loans. As these home equity loans go away, it enables us to reduce our operating costs as we have less work to do.

As you can see over the past five quarters, these non-core loans have declined approximately $59 billion. If you adjust for that $59 billion though, and I'll go to the upper right-hand box, you can see that our loans have actually increased by $21 billion from the first quarter of 2014. The bottom chart on this slide provides the mix of this loan growth across our primary businesses. And you can see within our Wealth Management area, we have experienced strong demand in both consumer real estate as well as securities based lending and that has led to year-over-year loan growth within that segment of 10%.

Within Global Banking, we saw modest growth on a year-over-year basis but importantly we saw a significant pickup in activity in the first quarter of 2015 relative to the fourth quarter of 2014. Over that time frame, loans were up $6.7 billion or 8% on an annualized basis.

We move to slide eight and take a look at regulatory capital. This quarter the standardized transition reporting includes the switch from reporting RWA under the general risk-based approach to Basel III and the capital number includes another year of phase-in for capital deductions. With those changes, our CET1 ratio was 11.1% in 2015 under the new reporting.

If we go ahead and look at Basel III regulatory capital on a fully phased-in basis, our CET1 capital improved $6 billion during the quarter and was driven by earnings, lower DTA, lower threshold deductions as well as an improvement in OCI. That translated under (technical difficulty) approach to our CET1 ratio improving from 10% in the fourth quarter to 10.3% in the first quarter of 2015 while under the advanced approaches the CET1 ratio improved from 9.6% to 10.1%.

As you know from our 10-K disclosure, we are working with our banking regulators to obtain approval of our models in order to exit parallel run. Our regulators have requested modifications to certain commercial and other credit models in order to exit parallel run which we estimate would increase our advanced approaches RWA and negatively impact the CET1 ratio that we show here by approximately 100 basis points.

If we look at supplementary leverage, we estimate that at the end of the first quarter of 2015 we continue to exceed the US rules applicable in 2018. Our bank holding company SLR ratio was 6.3% and in our primary banking subsidiary, BANA, we were at 7%.

We turn to slide nine, long-term debt. At the end of the first quarter was $238 billion, down $5 billion from the fourth quarter of 2014. In the lower left box you can see that from a maturity profile perspective, we have $16 billion of parent company debt that matures during the balance of 2015 and we will be opportunistic as it relates to refinancing that indebtedness.

Our global excess liquidity sources reached a record level of $478 billion this quarter and now represents 22% of the overall balance sheet. The increase from the fourth quarter reflects the deposit inflows as well as the shift from discretionary loans into HQLA securities.

Within the liquidity, our parent company liquidity remains quite strong at $93 billion and our time to require funding is at 37 months. During the quarter, we did continue to increase our liquidity coverage ratios at both the parent as well as at the bank levels and at the end of the first quarter, we estimate that our consolidated company was well above the 100% fully phased in 2017 LCR requirement.

On slide 10, net interest income on a reported FTE basis was $9.7 billion, down a couple hundred million dollars from the fourth quarter of 2014 driven by two fewer interest accrual days during the quarter as well as some spread compression. If we exclude the previously mentioned market related adjustment, NII at $10.2 billion was largely in line with our expectations and lower than the fourth quarter of 2014 given two fewer interest accrual days.

Modest improvements in net interest income mostly from lower funding costs in the quarter were offset by some of the continued pressures that we saw in loan and securities yields as well as balances in new assets coming in at lower long-term rates. This drove the adjusted net interest yield to 2.28%.

If we look at the movement down in rates during the quarter, our balance sheet did become more asset sensitive compared to year-end such that 100 basis point parallel increase in rates from the end of the quarter would be expected to contribute roughly $4.6 billion in net interest income benefits over the next 12 months. Slightly more than half of that $4.6 billion is on the long end and just under half is based on the short end.

On slide 11, if we moved to expenses, non-interest expense was $15.7 billion in the first quarter of 2015 and included roughly $370 million in litigation expense. First quarter 2015 once again did include $1 billion in annual retirement eligible incentive costs consistent with what we saw in the first quarter of 2014.

Litigation expense during the quarter included FX and RMBS items and was significantly below what we saw a year ago, which included the cost of the [FHFA] settlement.

While we are on litigation, I do want to make sure that you notice this quarter that we did get one step closer on our Article 77 settlement as the Appellate Court approved the Bank of New York Mellon settlement in all respects and I would also note that the deadline for further appeal at this point has passed.

If we exclude litigation and retirement eligible costs, our total expenses were $14.3 billion this quarter, down nearly $1 billion from the first quarter of 2014 driven by three factors; continued progress on our LAS initiatives, our New BAC cost savings as well as lower revenue related incentives within Global Markets.

Relative to the fourth quarter of 2014, the expense level on an adjusted basis is up about $0.5 billion on higher revenue related incentives mostly for the improved sales and trading results on a linked-quarter basis. Our legacy assets and servicing costs, ex-litigation, were $1 billion. They improved approximately $100 million from the fourth quarter of 2014 and more than $500 million if we go back to the first quarter of 2014. And we remain on track to hit our Q14 target that we laid out for you of $800 million dollars in LAS costs, ex-litigation once again in the fourth quarter.

Beyond the LAS business, our teams continue to do very good work in optimizing our delivery network as well as our infrastructure and as you can see headcount was down 8% over the course of the last 12 months.

If we look at asset quality on slide 12, reported net charge-offs were $1.2 billion in the first quarter versus $900 million in the fourth quarter of 2014. I do want to note that the first quarter of 2015 included a net impact of approximately $200 million in losses associated with the DOJ settlement that was previously reserved for and that was offset in part by recoveries from certain NPL sales.

Our Q4 2014 included similar items but with the net adjustment positively benefiting net charge-offs to the tune of about $163 million. If we adjust for all these impacts, our net charge-offs during the quarter were $1 billion dollars, which is slightly lower than what we saw in the fourth quarter of 2014.

Our loss rates on the same adjusted basis were at about 47 basis points in the first quarter of 2015 consistent with what we saw in the fourth quarter of 2014. In both our consumer delinquencies as well as our NPLs declined from fourth-quarters levels.

On the commercial front we did see a slight pickup in reservable criticized exposure from the fourth quarter of 2014 as we bounce off comparatively low levels.

The first quarter of 2015 provision expense was $765 million. We released $429 million in reserves. Most of those reserve releases were in our consumer real estate portfolio, while we did see a modest increase in reserves in the commercial space that was associated with the strong loan growth that we saw during the first quarter.

We can flip to slide 13 on consumer banking. Hopefully last week you all saw and had a chance to review the filing of our recasted segment results. We mentioned to you during the last earnings call that we made changes in segment reporting where we moved the Home Loans into our Consumer Banking segment from CRES, which left our legacy assets and servicing as a standalone segment. We also moved the majority of business banking from Consumer Banking to the Global Banking segment which is how we manage the business. All of these changes have been made retroactively.

Let's go ahead and walk through then the business segment results starting on slide 13 with Consumer Banking. The results showed solid bottom-line performance with earnings of $1.5 billion, which is up slightly from the year-ago quarter and down seasonally from the fourth quarter of 2014, which tends to be a better consumer spending quarter. Business generated a solid 21% return on allocated capital.

Total revenue was lower compared to the first quarter of 2014 from a decline in net interest income. Two-thirds of that decline in NII was a result of pushing out in the allocation of a portion of the market-related NII adjustment to the deposits business.

Our non-interest income was stable compared to last year, reflecting good growth in both mortgage banking as well as higher card income, but was offset by a portfolio divestiture gain last year of roughly $100 million in the first quarter. Expenses were managed tightly and non-issue expense declined from the fourth quarter of 2014 as we continue to reduce our financial centers and the associated costs driven by consumer behavior patterns shifting to more digital.

The number of mobile banking customers continues to increase. We ended the quarter at roughly 17 million and these -- activity from these customers accounts for roughly 13% of all deposit transactions.

Page 14 we have added some additional slides here to give you a sense as to some of the trends that we are seeing in the business and key drivers. You can see we remain a leader in many aspects of our consumer bank, doing business with nearly half of all US households.

We look at fees compared to the first quarter of 2014, card income was up modestly despite some Affinity portfolio divestitures over the last year. Our card issuance remains very strong. Our balances did decline as our customers began to pay down holiday spend balance levels and our net charge-offs remain low at 2.8% and risk-adjusted margins remain high.

If we move to mortgage banking income, it was up 60% as originations for the Company ramped up during the quarter. Year-over-year first mortgage originations were up 55% to $13.7 billion while our home equity line and loan originations increased 62% to $3.2 billion.

The revenue improvement was driven by these increased volumes as well as the mix of first lien originations that was 76% weighted towards overall refinance activity. And looking forward, the pipeline remains strong, up 50% from the end of the year.

Moving to service charges, service charges were down versus the fourth quarter of 2014. This fee line continues to be muted as more of our customers take advantage of our reward plans and are opening accounts with higher balances. We also continue to reduce the number of less profitable accounts serviced and migrate customer activity to more self-service channels. As a result, we are getting the same or slightly better account fees and debit interchange from fewer accounts, which is allowing us to reduce our infrastructure.

Expense is declining and if you look at cost of deposits, it has dropped from just less than 2% in the first quarter of 2014 to 1.87% in the first quarter of 2015.

And lastly, as you can see while we are bringing down our overall headcount in this business, I want to note that we have been increasing our sales specialists in the financial centers and their sales are driving client balances higher. For example, our deposits are up 5% from the first quarter of 2014 and our brokerage assets are up 18%.

If we moved to slide 15, Wealth Management, it generated earnings of $651 million during the quarter. If we compare this to the first quarter of 2014, there's a $78 million decline as the solid fee growth that we saw during the quarter was offset by lower net interest income and higher expense. Once again, the allocation of the market-related NII adjustment drove the decline in NII, which more than offset the benefits that we saw from solid loan growth.

Our asset management fees continued to grow driven by strong client flows and higher market levels. Our non-interest expense increased from the first quarter of 2014 as a result of higher revenue related incentives as well as investments in client-facing professionals.

Our pretax margin was down 23%, down last year largely impacted by the decline in net interest income. Return on allocated capital remains strong at 22%.

If we look at the activity and drivers within Wealth Management on slide 16, you can see our management fees continue to grow and are up 10% from the first quarter of 2014 but this is partially offset by some of the sluggishness that we've seen in transactional revenue within the brokerage line. We do continue to be an employer of choice in this business increasing financial advisors by more than 850 individuals over the course of the last 12 months.

Our client balances climbed to over $2.5 trillion, up $12 billion from the fourth quarter of 2014 driven by strong client balance inflows. Long-term AUM flows at $15 billion for the quarter were positive for the 23rd consecutive quarter.

And as I mentioned earlier, when we discuss loans, we continue to experience strong demand in both our securities based and residential mortgage lending areas of the business reaching a new record level in loans during the quarter.

On slide 17, our Global Banking earnings during the quarter were $1.4 billion, which generating 16% return on allocated capital. Earnings were up 6% from the first quarter of 2014 as the decline in net interest income was more than offset by lower expense as well as improved provision expense.

As we look at NII, the year-over-year decline was driven by three things: the allocation of the market related to NII adjustment, which I have touched on in previous segments; the push-out of the firm-wide LCR requirements, a good chunk of which goes to Global Banking as well as some year-over-year compression in loan spreads. Our provision expense was lower than the first quarter of 2014 by $185 million as we did not build reserves to the same magnitude as we did in the first quarter of last year.

Non-interest expense was down 8% from the first quarter of 2014 driven by three factors, lower technology initiative spend, lower litigation as well as lower incentive costs.

Moving to the Global Banking metrics on page 18, we chart the components of revenue which show stability across the quarters with the exception of NII, as I just mentioned. Our investment banking fees companywide during the quarter were $1.5 billion, down 4% from the first quarter of 2014. I would highlight during the quarter we recorded the highest level of advisory fees since the Merrill merger, up 50% from the first quarter of 2014. This helped to offset the drop that we saw within our leverage finance business as a result of the regulatory guidance that was implemented during the first half of 2014.

Equity underwriting was also up nicely, up 10% from the first quarter of 2014. And as you look at the balance sheet, loans on average were $290 billion, up modestly on a year-over-year basis but if you look linked quarter, as I mentioned earlier, we had a fair bit of momentum ending the first quarter with balances up $7 billion on a spot basis from the fourth quarter of 2014.

The $7 billion improvement was broad-based. We saw middle-market utilization rates at levels that we have not seen for six years at this point so we feel good about that. And within commercial real estate, we saw linked quarter improvement as well.

On slide 19, Global Markets, we earned $945 million on revenues of $4.6 billion in the quarter. That was an 11% return on allocated capital during the quarter. Our earnings were up nicely from the fourth quarter of 2014 but down from the first quarter as our revenue was down 7% excluding net DVA and FVA. The decline from the first quarter of 2014 was driven by lower fixed sales and trading results.

On the expense front, non-interest expense was modestly higher year-over-year as we had $260 million in litigation expense in the quarter. Ex litigation, expenses were down 7% on reduced levels of revenue related incentives.

If we look at the Global Markets metrics on slide 20, sales and trading revenue of $3.9 billion ex-DVA and FVA as I mentioned was up nicely off fourth quarter of 2014 levels but down 5% from the first quarter of 2014. Fixed sales and trading was down 7% on a year-over-year basis while equities was effectively flat with the year-ago period.

Within the macro related product areas like FX and rates, there was a solid return in volatility and client trading activity in the quarter while the credit spread traded products area experienced lower activity in line with lower issuance levels during the quarter. And as you look at and we lay out a mix between macro and credit in the upper box, upper right-hand box and you can see that our activity tends to be more heavily weighted towards credit spread trading given the position that we occupy within the issuer market.

And the last point I would make on markets, our asset levels were fairly flat while VaR was below the level that we experienced last year.

Slide 21, Legacy Assets & Servicing, you can see we saw improvement in revenue and expense trends compared to both periods within Legacy Assets & Servicing. The loss in this segment narrowed to less than $240 million. Revenue improved as both rep and warrant was down $156 million from the year-ago period and we had a more favorable MSR hedge performance. Those two factors were partially offset by lower servicing fees as we continue to reduce the servicing portfolio.

Non-interest expense ex-litigation was $1 billion in the quarter once again improving approximately $100 million from the fourth quarter and more than $500 million since the first quarter of 2014. Importantly, our 60-plus days delinquent loans were 153,000 units but were down 36,000 units or 19% from the fourth quarter of 2014.

If we move to slide 22 All Other, All Other reflects a loss of $841 million and that includes once again the impact of the annual retirement eligible incentive costs as well as some of the market-related NII impact. If we compare this quarter to the first quarter of 2014, revenue is lower by about $683 million and that was driven by nearly $700 million in equity investment gains in the first quarter of 2014 compared to essentially nothing in the first quarter of 2015 and it was partially offset as well by the absence of payment protection costs this quarter compared to about $141 million in the prior-year quarter.

From a modeling perspective, the effective tax rate during the quarter was about 29% and as we look out during the balance of 2015, we would expect the tax rate to be roughly 30% absent any unusual items.

So I would just wrap up the prepared part of my comments that as we end the quarter, we end the quarter with record capital. We end the quarter with record liquidity. We will begin our $4 billion share repurchase program this quarter. The team is very focused on addressing our CCAR resubmission. Expense management remains a key focus across the Company. Our businesses are showing good activity including a pickup in lending across several businesses in the Company, credit quality remains strong and we remain well positioned to benefit in a rising interest rate environment.

And with that we will go ahead and open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: So Brian, very impressive commentary in the beginning of the call on headcount getting back to 2008 levels before CFC and the Merrill Lynch acquisition. The one question we get continually from investors is what is left to do on the expenses and you've already got the core expense number coming into the $13 billion range, so can you give us some sense as to where you go from here on expense management and is it steady as she goes, or is there room to become even more efficient?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: A couple of things. One is if you parse expenses, Betsy, into three basic buckets, the litigation expense bucket, which you are seeing come down to more reasonable levels and then there is a cost of that litigation, the external legal fees and stuff, which we will continue to see lift in which is in the expense numbers. Then you have a second bucket, LAS, we are at the $1 billion level and as Bruce said, we expect to get that down to $800 million and keep moving that to lower numbers over into 2016.

And then you get into the baseline and I think the thought on the baseline is even as we reduce the headcount we continue to reinvest in sales capacity. So just in our consumer business, headcount down year-over-year but we have 1000 more salespeople roughly out there selling. And then so the idea is to continue to drive salespeople into the businesses at the same time we are taking out wealth management, etc.

So when you think about the broad expense base, there is adjustments always in first quarter, second quarter just because of revenue and stuff in terms of the aggregate amount but we will continue to pare away. You can look linked -- year-over-year quarters over the last four years, we have continued to chip away. This year it was 300 on the core base. We will continue to work at that but I would say that a lot of it we are trying to make sure that we create the investment rate, continue to grow the franchise (inaudible) size. This is a matter of holding these expenses relatively flat as revenues start to pick up with the expected increase in rates and the economy continue to grow. If that changed we would have to go aggressively and push down the core also.

BRUCE THOMPSON: We manage it every day.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We manage it every day and you can see the headcount is a leading indicator because that headcount reduction in the quarter really benefits us in the second quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Got it. And then just separate topic on GWIM and maybe you could give us some commentary around how you are thinking about the impact of the fiduciary language that has been coming out if the Department of Labor and also how you deal with the competitive threats coming from Silicon Valley including some of the robo-advisor efforts?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: On the first question, John Thiel, who runs Merrill Lynch for us, where largely we are affected by the discussion on fiduciary standards because remember U.S. Trust is actually a private bank and operates under the fiduciary standard in most of its activity. So John Thiel does the lead in our business, does a great job for us, has been clear. We believe that doing what is in the best interests for your customers is absolutely the right thing to do. And while this rule has just come out yesterday afternoon and frankly, Betsy, to get prepared for your questions this morning, I haven't spent a lot of time examining it in detail. But from a basic standpoint, we have been clear that we see the industry moving and we expect to help move it there.

On the robo-advisor I think that the clear segment match for us in that area in terms of what Schwab and other people are talking about is really in the Merrill Lynch business, which is below the Merrill Lynch cut off, for lack of a better term. So John and his team drive people $250,000 in investable assets free to invest, which is net worth $0.5 million/$1 million in [uprating] of the client. And then Dean Athanasia and his preferred team drive the business below that and if you look in our information, you will see that that business has got about $118 billion of brokerage assets. It is growing faster than the industry year-over-year. I think the assets are up 18%. The numbers of accounts are up, the sales levels are up and so that's really the automated rebalancing portfolios and stuff like that and we are driving that through as a core execution.

And by the way, they also refer tens of thousands of customers a year up to Merrill Lynch at the same time, so we are trying to have the best of both worlds.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks. You have been a leader there, so appreciate that color. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Any sense of when we get a clearer picture on the final impact of exiting parallel run? Should we just assume the 100 basis point hit that you mentioned is a done deal or is there a potential for it to be less than that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think what we wanted to disclose, Matt, is that I think that we are coming out of the disclosure that we had in the K, there were a lot of questions and you are absolutely right that what we disclosed today was the requested amount from our banking regulators to exit parallel run. That was the ask on their behalf. Discussions continue but we did want to put out there what the ask was.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. In terms of timing of a conclusion on that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think that those things are always hard to predict but we are obviously working hard to get through it over the next quarter or so.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just related, obviously capital build was very good this quarter of 50 basis points, so you essentially got half that back already. But assuming that 100 basis point hit goes through, are there additional RWA levers to pull or model adjustments in the future that we can think about?

BRUCE THOMPSON: You ask a very good question, which is that to the extent that there is an adjustment in the RWA, you obviously as you look to refine and improve your models, always have the ability to work hard to get that back. But there's obviously a lot of scrutiny with respect to models. But your point is spot on is that there would be the opportunity as we work through and look to refine, improve and become better with our models, to get some of that back over time.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And Matt, in a broader context, we have flipped the binding constraint in our Company to some degree with a move to advanced and so therefore, continue to look at the balance sheet what mix of businesses and how you approach the businesses changes again because standardize was a constraint we were focused on and was our binding constraint and now it's going to flip to advanced, as you can see in the numbers. And that then just -- expect us to be as aggressive and in depth at thinking through how we mix the businesses right to make sure that we are focused on that constraint now that it has become a binding one.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. That is very hopeful, thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: On your legacy asset servicing in your discussions you said that the loans went down from 36,000 loans in the quarter. Did you sell any loans in the quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: There was some servicing of loans that was moved as well as the outright sale of some nonperforming loans, so there was some inorganic activity but as you look at those reductions, it was very strong from both organic as well as inorganic. And I would say the other thing that we are seeing, Paul, is just less new delinquencies coming in than what we would've expected. So you've got the benefit of less coming in, you've got the benefit of working through some of what you have and then we are supplementing that with moving additional out.

PAUL MILLER: Yes, I know one of the things out there is what we are seeing or hearing is that there is a strong market right now for people wanting to buy either re-performing or nonperforming loans. Are you going to use that as an advantage to start moving this stuff off your books quicker?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We have been using it as an advantage. If you go back and look at the results, Paul, I think we were one of the first out there that started to move those loans in the first half of 2014. We have been aggressively doing that both to take the risk of the loans off as well as to move the servicing. And I think if you look at the impact of that and how it flows through different things, you really get a good sense for it when you look at some of the CCAR results where the loss content that we have, particularly within both first mortgages as well as home equity, has come down. So we have been at that for some time at this point.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And Paul, I think overall remember as you get further and further removed from the crisis, what is left over even though at the time when we set up LAS or set up some of these non-core portfolios would have been a product or service you didn't want to continue. Seven years later, you are seeing the customers are left over and paid and so there's a good bit but also we want to make sure we measure the economics of the portfolios. Now that they are much smaller, the risk is way down and so we judge that really on the basis of who the customer is and whether we want to roll them into core loans in our Company and then also what the economics of the outside are.

So I wouldn't expect us to change our course there. We will just look at the opportunities we have to keep moving in the right direction. On both servicing and assets we own too because remember, Paul, there's also the servicing side of this even though we don't own the asset, the is a strong bid. Even the agencies are moving to move some portfolios.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, thank you guys.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Just want to follow up on the capital discussion. You guys had pretty good progress on the advanced approach, up 50 basis points quarter over quarter but the gap between standardized and advanced is still very large. And I guess if you have to go through with the full 100 basis points, I guess about 120 basis point gap versus your peers that are less than half that. I guess -- is the big difference operational risk because of the larger litigation you faced over the last couple of years and how do we think about that coming down and getting more in line with the peers? Is that just a time as you get further away from that, those op risks come down or how else do we think about the trajectory of the closing of the gap?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, your point is exactly right, which is that as we talked about last quarter that the op risk relative to the total advanced RWA was upwards of 30%. That's obviously higher than our peers. It is something that we are working hard on to be able to drive down. And to your point, the question is when are you able to get benefit from a declining litigation trend as we wrap up the legacy matters and that does take some time. Obviously the last two quarters from a litigation perspective have been much lighter than what we experienced going back several years. So it is up to us to continue to work that and to look to convince people that the level op risk capital should come down given the resolution of the matters.

And I would just highlight that we once again whether you look at Article 77, there was an Ocala litigation matter that was wrapped up as well as on the RMBS front with settlements that we got through this quarter were at roughly 99% of all threatened or filed litigation with respect to RMBS. So we continue to work through that and drive through that and ultimately the benefit from that should be lower op risk capital from an RWA perspective.

JIM MITCHELL: Right and sorry, is that sort of a negotiation process on the models with regulators, so is it going to be sort of a step function or is it just really just time value as you move further away? I'm just trying to understand the process.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think in all these cases clearly that we work closely with our supervisors on all model related activity and as you look to make changes that are to the good you obviously need to work through your regulators to get those put through.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: As you think forward remember you saw a good capital build this quarter and we will continue to build. But remember that if we keep on the course of earnings that we expect -- and the issue wasn't CCAR last year when we went to the ask. You have to remember we came off a really low nominal earnings environment and so we retain a lot of capital between now and the next time we can ask to actually change the capital position of the Company and we have a big cushion.

So we will close this gap relatively quickly and then we have a longer-term question of what you are saying which is as op risk runs off, how do you get that reflected ultimately in your capital requirements and the same with the models and the other [side].

JIM MITCHELL: Right. And to your point, the stress test is based on standardized, not advanced.

But just one quick follow-up elsewhere, on the FICC revenues, can you talk about the trajectory over the quarter? Did it improve in March? It sounded like some of your peers have talked about a slow start. Did it get any better in March, or how do we think about the trajectory through the quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I am always hesitant to comment on results given that we are nine days into a new quarter but I think if you look at what we saw from both I would say both a sales and trading as well as an overall investment banking fee perspective, the January on the margin was a little bit slower than what we would've expected and we saw activity and momentum build up throughout the quarter to where if you had to grade which of the three months of the quarter did you feel best about, it was clearly March. And like I said, we are only nine trading days into the new quarter but we have not seen anything change directionally. Some of the activity that we saw in March, we have continued to see in April.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, great. That's very helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Quick question on Proposal 8 in the proxy. I don't think the regulators want it to happen. I don't think it should happen and I assume you have been doing a lot of the work on this along the way for the last couple of years. But curious why the Board is so against shareholders voting for it and what you actually have to do if it does get the yes vote?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: As I think you read the response in the proxy, Glenn, you will see this is a core Board duty and they do look at it periodically and think about the optimal company structure, capital structure. So the idea to have a special element around it is really the whole Board looks at it and that is who should look at it. So then the technical terms of what the request is are a little hard to understand when you think about how a company really operates. But we do look at the question of do we have the optimal business mix? Is it optimal for shareholders? And the Board will look at it continuously and we will continue to look at it.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. I appreciate the comments you made on the increased asset sensitivity and if I remember the numbers correctly, it sounds like more of the increased sensitivity came out on the long end. So I guess my question is, it is great you make a lot more money if the curve shifts up 100 basis points. But I think a lot of people are more fearful of what happens if we get into a [flattener] environment. So is it is simple as you capture at least half by short rates going up and if we're in a flattener, that's where it ends?

BRUCE THOMPSON: A couple of things, Glenn. The first is that in many respects we were at 3.5/3.6 at the end of the year and we went to 4.5/4.6 this quarter. Keep in mind that a chunk of what you see as far as becoming more asset sensitive is just the FAS 91 that we lost during the quarter. So I'd keep that in mind.

And to your point you are exactly right. If you looked at where we were at year end, I think we were just over in the 2.1 to 2.2 benefit from short rates moving and that has not changed materially. So to your point, the asset sensitivity is based almost solely on long-term rates and given the deltas that we saw change from the end of the year to the end of the first quarter.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. I appreciate it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford C. Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Just a follow-up on in terms of if rates stay pretty flat, what kind of outlook would you have for the core NII if we take the 10.2 this quarter as a jumping off point? Do you have any room to lower the debt costs from here or how would you expect the core NII to trend if we don't see too much movement on rates?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It is something we have spend a lot of time on, John. When we got to the end of the first quarter we looked at and said during the balance of 2015 what is the impact that we would see if in effect we rolled a spot throughout 2015, which just means that you don't get the benefit of the curve as we go through. And if you look at that, it is roughly a couple hundred million dollars a quarter relative to $10 billion of NII.

So we think that we've done between the debt footprint, deposits and if you actually look at the clean yields during the quarter Q4 to Q1 that we've done a pretty good job of managing this exposure in what has been a tough environment. But to your question, there is probably a couple hundred million dollars a quarter in risk if you roll the spot.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. Okay and that's couple hundred million over a couple of quarters, Right?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It would be about $200 million per quarter over the next three quarters.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. And that's just kind of core leakage from new stuff coming on or lower yields and you not investing much in a low rate environment?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, and continuing to shorten the balance sheet every time we get a chance to.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then just switching gears, Bruce, on the credit side, do you see the net charge offs kind of bouncing around the $1 billion per quarter level, or is there room for those to come down or is that kind of stabilizing? And how should we think about reserve releases from here relative to the 400 or so you did this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: A couple of things on that. I would say we continue to see, John, if you look at within the consumer space and overall consumer credit that the first quarter typically all of the things being equal is the toughest consumer quarter in the first quarter. So I think there's probably a little bit of room there if we continue to see what we see in the economy on the consumer side.

The tougher piece of it is probably to judge commercial because outside of what we see in the small business lending, there really haven't been many charge offs and we will just have to see how long that benign environment covers.

On the reserve release for the quarter, the one thing I want to make sure that we point out that while we release 400 plus of reserves, 200 of that was from the DOJ where with the mailings you had both charge-offs and reserve release, so as it relates to just from a -- as you look at the provision perspective, realize that which impacted the provisions is more like 200.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So that should be something -- the jumping off point is more like a 200 reserve release number?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes. And I think we have said that we clearly expect reserve releases to moderate, so we will have to see as we roll into the quarters. But I think you are directionally right on your charge-off number and we will see if there's anything left in the reserve releases as we go through the second and third quarters.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Last quick thing for me. In terms of rep and warrants, the slide 26, not sure if you mentioned this already, Bruce, there was a pickup in the claims, the new claims this quarter showed a big increase. Just what is the driver of that? Why would those show up now? And any color you can provide on whether that is a concern or not.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think you need to go down to and we lay it out in the footnote but if you start up in the new claim trends, if you recall there is a case going through where the statute of limitations on rep and warrant claims in the ACE case was found -- the statute was six years and if you look at the claims that you see up in the new claim trends, you can see virtually all of those claims were in the pre-2005 through 2006 area. So absent any tolling, a good chunk of those are going to be time barred.

The other part that -- the other point that I would mention is if you go down to the footnote you can see that the vast majority of these claims were put in with no file work done on whatsoever or no individual loan work that was done.

So I think there continues to be obviously activity on that front but there is not a lot of work being done as those claims are being filed.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: So Bruce, I just wanted to touch on the preferreds for a moment. So saw that you completed another $3 billion of issuance in the quarter. But seeing as you are already at the 150 basis point target contemplated under Basel III, whether it's fair to assume that you are now full on press at the moment and we shouldn't expect any additional issuance?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think you're absolutely right that we got the bucket filled up this quarter. I think the only thing that is out there is depending on exactly where we come out from an overall RWA perspective as we exit parallel run. That beyond 2015, could there be a couple billion dollars more preferred sometime during 2016? That's a possibility but you are absolutely right that based on where we are from an RWA perspective, the bucket is filled up, so we don't see much if any at all in 2015. Maybe a little bit in 2016 but not much.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Excellent. Thanks for clarifying that, Bruce. And I suppose since you mentioned RWA, one thing that I just wanted to clarify, I believe it was relating to your response to Jim where you noted that for CCAR it only contemplates a standardized approach. But I just wanted to know if that determination had been finalized since some are speculating that the advanced approach could be incorporated within the CCAR exam going forward?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, there is an open question out there that you are absolutely right that for the different CCAR submissions that went in in 2015, that those submissions are against the standard ratios. And as an industry, we just don't know the answer if we will test under just standardized in CCAR 2016 or if advanced will be brought in. That is an open question that is out there for the industry.

STEVEN CHUBAK: And do you have a sense at least for the moment as to what the impact would be on RWAs if they were to incorporate the advanced approach versus the standardized?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think if you look at the numbers you can see the difference that we have within our numbers. As to advanced, I think the open question that is out there as you look at moving to advanced in a CCAR scenario is that under advanced you hold capital for op risk and then that there's the open question if you go to stress test under advanced, what do you do with respect to CCAR in those op risk litigation type items? And like I said, that is an open question for the industry.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Right. But would it be fair to expect that because it is a -- the advance calculation is more procyclical in nature that the RWAs calculated under a period of stress would be higher versus the standardized?

BRUCE THOMPSON: There is no question that there is a procyclical aspect of it that intuitively I think you are right but it is just until you understand exactly the completeness and the entire picture of what you are looking at, I just don't want to speculate.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Fair enough. That's it for me and thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFERIES LLC: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the investments in brokerage services business. The metrics continue to look very strong as far as assets gained but the growth rate on a year-over-year basis looks like it has slowed considerably. Any context you can provide around revenue generation and is there a potential catch up that we should see or expect going forward based on either markets or just activity levels?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: From a high-level that team has continued to invest and grow and there is a couple of things driving that. One is they are adding more core advisors. So in the last 12 months I think we added 120 experienced advisors and we added almost 900 total. So there's a carry cost to bring those up but that is good for the future.

The second thing is there's a little bit of a business mix issue which is that the investment management side of the business continues to grow but we have seen weakness in the brokerage transactional side just as the business gets repositioned in that sort of year-over-year is enough to hit you.

And then third, frankly, is that the NII that Bruce pointed out earlier, just the way we allocate and we won't let businesses take an excuse for intercompany allocations but the way we allocate year-over-year, a big chunk of the NII loss is just due to the way we allocate out the impact on the market and less NII.

KEN USDIN: Okay. And then secondly, just extending that to the other consumer fee lines, card income flattish and service charges down a bit. Is this customer behavior driven or additional repositioning in there and can you talk about growth expectations on the consumer side as well?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think as Bruce talked about earlier, if you think about a couple of broad things. One is, as we continue to drive to be the core checking account for households, we are seeing higher sales. We are seeing higher primary sales but with that comes less fees in the sense but the average balances are higher. And so what you're seeing is a flattening of the fees charged on accounts, overdraft and other fees while you see an increase in the consumer balances, which in this environment are worth something but will be worth a lot more as rates rise because these are core checking account.

So there is some elements of how the business has been shifted based on our priority of making sure that we just don't have a lot of checking accounts, we have a lot of core checking accounts and that has caused it. So you are seeing a far faster growth and balances and actually a slight decline in total checking accounts out there.

When you put debit fees and other fees plus the interest rates together, which is core checking revenue, it's actually a little better picture. But that is kind of the story there.

On the credit card fees, it is basically we have absorbed most of the compression on the interchange at this point in the rebates we give. So really year-over-year you have a bit of loss there because we added a divestiture of a big Affinity program, two big Affinity programs that hurt us and you should expect to see that a little bit more in line with our spending growth going forward, which has been about 3%, 4%.

KEN USDIN: Okay. And then last one, just Bruce, you mentioned on the discretionary portfolio on the switch out to HQLA. Can you give us a sense of just how much more of that mix shift we should expect or at some point do you get to a point where the loan portfolio finally starts to bottom out?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think a couple of things. So the shift to the discretionary portfolio, you probably have about $5 billion of that in each of the second quarter and the third quarter of this year and at that point that work is done. I would say as you look at just discretionary mortgage balances and what you are seeing from a payments for the old stuff that was put within the investment portfolio, you are probably looking at before what the new is that we put on within the business that you are in the $10 billion to $14 billion type run off in each of the next couple of quarters. Realize all of that net interest income doesn't go away because there is reinvestment of that and there is new loans coming in but you do have probably two more quarters where we will move stuff into securities and obviously there does continue to be a run-off of that portfolio as well.

KEN USDIN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Just one quick question on the legal expense that was incurred in this period. Are those issues now the FX and the RMBS, are those issues now settled or are they ongoing?

BRUCE THOMPSON: The RMBS piece I quoted, there were both amounts in litigation for things that were settled as well as accruals during the quarter. And once again, Eric, I would go back to that from an RMBS perspective at this point we are 98% or 99% of threatened or filed claims on original UPB that we're through, so that's where we are with the RMBS.

With respect to the FX piece, I think if you go back and look at where we said that we were in October, that we resolved the matter with the OCC, the top up that we saw in the quarter related to FX with respect to other banking regulators and there was also the resolution and we are working through the final documentation of the civil piece of the overall FX work. And that is all included within the litigation reserve during the quarter.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay. And sorry, just so I understand that last point -- the civil component, is that with the DOJ or some other kind of authority?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, the civil piece with respect to a class-action type matter, not the DOJ.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Oh, I see. Okay. But that was contained within the accrual in this period?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay, great. Thank you for the clarity.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: What are your financial targets for 2015 and 2016?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So, Mike, as we said, our goal is to continue to drive towards the 1% return on assets and depending on where we end up with capital between 7.5% and 8% tangible common equity ratio, that would translate into a 13 down to 12 return on tangible common equity. In this quarter we moved to up to where we have a return on tangible common equity is 8% and so -- and our return on assets was 64 basis points, so we are sort of two-thirds of the way to that goal.

MIKE MAYO: And what timeframe do you expect to get then?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think if you adjust our earnings this quarter for a couple of things, the FAS 123, the FAS 91 and then continue to think of LAS normalizing, you see us get close to that goal and that should happen between now and the end of 2016 because we just keep chunking away at LAS as we have described.

MIKE MAYO: So is that your specific financial target -- what is your target for 2015 when it comes to your financial metrics?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think the way you asked that, we basically have to give you our earnings estimates for 2015 and we just don't do that. But our targets long-term we told you each time you asked is the same, 1% return on assets and a 12%, 13% return on tangible common equity based on where we think our tangible common equity ratio will settle out.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. I guess when I look back at 2014 I ask myself the question did Bank of America meet its financial targets? And I have trouble because I'm not sure if you had specific targets just for the year 2014 as opposed to your longer-term targets.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We made $4 billion in change last year against the expectation by you and your colleagues of $15 billion. So clearly we didn't meet the financial targets due to the litigation we took last year.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Let me just ask a separate question then. Glenn Schorr brought up Proposal 8 and the proxy and I guess my reaction is why not give more information on the trade-offs of the business model? One of your competitors gave three slides on this topic at their investor day. They weren't asked to do this and they have some higher ROE and ROA. So more information I think would be good and in the proxy it says that your Board believes that the proposal would not enhance stockholder value. If that is the conclusion of the Board, just why not share some of the insights of the Board to investors?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The insights we have when you look at the returns on page two or three of the material show that the core businesses return is above our cost of capital and that the mix between them and the revenue synergies and the diversity we get have been there.

But let's back up. What a lot of people are looking at here, Mike, is can you simplify your company to make it tighter? We started that in 2010 with about $2.4 trillion in assets. We are down to $2.1 trillion. We started with about $70 billion in capital or $80 billion in capital. We are up to $140 billion. And we started by getting rid of 60 operating businesses and so we have done a lot of simplification.

So what is really left and this is one of the reasons why our market business is more constrained in its growth prospects potentially than some other people's is because we keep it to about one-third of the franchise in terms of size. And that market business is really focused on driving the value of our issuer side customers going to market and then with our investor side customers providing sources of capital for that. So it's a very synergistic basis.

So we will continue to try to provide insight but if you look at it, the businesses return above their cost of capital and then if we put them out there the question would be what we would look like after and we would have capital we can't deploy and we would have less earnings power.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Well if you can share additional insights into that conclusion in addition to what you just gave that would be great at least in the future. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: I have one straightforward question and one that is more existential. I will ask the straightforward one first. Brian, could you just restate your position on paying or raising the dividend? I know the CCAR this year has distorted that a bit and if you could just state how you feel about dividends versus buybacks?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think number one in terms of we received approval for what we had asked for which is a nickel a share of dividend and $4 billion of stock buyback in the CCAR. And we had to be conservative in that ask, leaving aside the modeling and other questions -- but this had to be conservative in base ask because if you think about it, our run rate of earnings was such that we were coming off a $4 billion plus earnings quarter. We had to keep our head on in terms of how we were accumulating capital and make sure we earned the capital before we paid it out.

The second thing is that the $22 billion cushion shows that based on all the works at CCAR we have a strong cushion going forward. So the key for us to be able to increase the dividend and continue to push forward is to get that normalized earnings stream in a couple of quarters, $3 billion plus in earnings we are getting.

Long-term we have said many times our ultimate goal is to take about 30% of our recurring earnings and pay it out in dividends and then to use the rest for capital management. At this price we would be buying stock back and if there's a different scenario where our multiple to book and earnings multiples are higher we might pay additional dividends but the goal would be about a 30% payout ratio of recurring earnings as we get there.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you. The second one is this and this is maybe a little bit more difficult to answer. You had a good trading quarter but we have seen one of your competitors have a much better trading quarter and I know that there is a mix issue there. But also as I kind of look at the composition of your businesses there, have you de-risked the trading desk to the point where you can't really take full advantage of the volatility in markets? And I'm wondering if you see that as the case? And secondly, if there will come a time when you are able to do some re-risking there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Nancy, what you asked is really the core question, which is if you look a few years ago we put core capital Global Markets out as a separate reported segment to ensure that people saw that that was a less volatile earnings stream than people perceived and it was not the earnings stream of the Global Banking segment, high investment banking which you can see the fees move up or down and were relatively stable in clearly the loan book and the treasury services. So we tried to sort the businesses so people can see what we are doing with Global Markets.

Based on our capital and based on our view of how the franchise fits together, we keep that business to about one-third of our total size. So this total balance sheet deployed is under $600 billion and has been for years. That then requires Tom and the team to make a series of choices how they deploy that based on our appetite for risk expressed by VaR, our appetite for size expressed by the $600 billion, which other people have far bigger balance sheets deployed in the business. And that then does limit their ability to take risk and do certain things.

So there is a mix issue based on this quarter. In other quarters we have performed better relatively and that is this issue. But from a core standpoint, it's not an existential question at all. It's an actual determination we made to have our SIFI buffer lower, to have our overall risk lower to man demand the company, which is really customer focused on the core banking middle markets, franchise and the core investor, it would still be big enough to be a very impactful, number one research house in the world and have $3.5 billion, $4 billion of revenue in a given quarter. We had to basically optimize around size, capital, the capital deployed in the business and then the risk we were willing to put in the P&L and that's where we ended up and that's resulted in us having 100 basis points less SIFI buffer requirement than other people.

And we think that's balanced because with our book of business if we increased that, we've got to carry that 100 basis points across the whole franchise, not just the markets business and that extra capital in our balance would really increase the capital requirements that is really not needed for our core banking business.

NANCY BUSH: So basically you are happy with the trading desk as it is?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: No. We are always -- never happy because we always wanted to do better. But on the other hand, it is fair to say that we are not unsatisfied when we make almost $1 billion after tax in the quarter where they had a couple of big elements. This mix in the macro businesses, which we are positioned in on purpose. And then secondly, remember a core part of our business we are still adjusting to which was the leverage finance transaction business, which you can look at is down dramatically year-over-year as we adopted the guidance and what was acquired. That is through the numbers now and then we will build back based on that business doing it the way that meets the regulatory standards.

So happy -- we are never happy with any business. We are always pushing them to do better but given the constraints, there is an understanding I would say more than happiness of where we ended up.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: A quick follow-up on the op risk questions. So if we still have pending settlements out there on a few of the remaining large issues, could that lead to op risk at least sustaining at elevated levels and could it even potentially cause a little bit of an uplift there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think at this point we have walked through and as we said on the last call that we are at the level that we need to be from an overall op risk perspective. And to your point, if we look at the last two quarters relative to when that op risk capital was set, we have seen fairly sizable declines in overall litigation expense. So you obviously work through that but our belief over time is that number should be less, not more but we need to deliver that to the shareholder.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Yes, from your lips to God's ears, but if we still have some potential settlements my only point is that it might take a little while before we end up seeing that come down. Isn't that a similar reason?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: (inaudible). Just as we said, there's a bid ask on the RWA related to commercial credit factors and models. There was a bid ask an operating risk. We closed that out and we have actually moved our RWAs to a number of those asks. And then from then you just look at it very simply, think about the last four quarters versus last year just picking up the third and fourth quarter, you have a complete change in the amount of litigation expense that is gone through the enterprise and you will see that keep rolling through. It will take a while for that to average out but basically assume that we've agreed to an amount which was requested to bring our op risk and we put that through last quarter.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks. And then it seems some high-level turnover in your equities business. Can you comment maybe on what is driving some of those departures, any potential implications and what you are doing about it?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, we have had some retirements of people worked in the business for 25 years, Henry and the team and it's just the ebb and flow of business. I don't think there's any major issues going on there. I think that (inaudible) and the team have done a good job and stabilized that business and brought it back. We continue to work on the prime brokerage side to make sure that we can be positioned to restart that engine of growth. Now we had to hold the business back where we got the operating platform in place to where we wanted (technical difficulty) not this past fall but the fall before.

So I think you should not read anything into that other than the usual ebb and flow of people deciding to do other things.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. Thanks for that color. And then the last one for me following up on Ken's question, it sounds like the FA headcount adds are sort of biased a little more to the junior side. So should we count on a bit of a headwind from that on your productivity metrics in GWIM? And maybe could you also comment on the recruiting environment currently and if you still think that comp may moderate as some of those deals with FAs from crisis level sunset?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The average deal last year I think was -- for the highest end producing FAs, which there were 100 of, 120 of, the average deal was like 1.27 times trailing 12 or something like that, or slightly less than that. Don't hold me to those exact numbers but think of it conceptually. So the rumors about these payouts are probably far in excess. The reality is only 120 people or so. So take whatever number. So let's broaden out the productivity question. The productivity per advisor in our business is extremely strong and has sort of structurally been strong for many years and continues to increase.

You wouldn't mind diluting that to get faster long-term growth prospects for the business and broaden out the business and that is what John and the team are doing. Whether it goes down or not is really going to be a factor. How fast the revenue stream grows -- it has been outgrowing that impact of investing in the lower-end business but we aren't -- I wouldn't say it is going to go down or up based on the added younger advisors but let's flip that and say that the way we think this business has to drive for our competitive advantage as a franchise is the linkage from preferred to Merrill Lynch Wealth Management and the interaction between the financial services centers and the people that come in there and the tens of thousands of people that get referred to Merrill is a competitive advantage for Merrill. And we will continue to drive that and part of that connectivity is we are now putting Merrill team-based brokers in the branches to work with clients and ultimately move physically onto the teams in the offices.

So we've got a lot of programs going. They seem to be working very well. It could dilute the productivity a little bit but it would be immaterial because of the strength of the core franchise is so strong.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: Jeff Harte, Sandler O'Neill.

JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: A couple from me. First of all, you mentioned the commercial utilization rate being up a lot. Can you give me some or give us some idea of how much of that is energy complex driven versus maybe coming from other less stressed industries?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Most all of that given that the number I quoted was within the commercial bank, that's almost exclusively outside of the energy space so it has nothing to do with anything distressed. It is just core commercial clients drawing more. Those numbers bottomed out in the low 30s and they are now up in the high 30s.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Think of that, when we say commercial, that is middle-market, general middle-market for us. Not the corporate bank where the energy exposure would be. So it is back to basically where it was not the highest point because it ran up right before the crisis but if you look back, it is higher than it was in say 2004 and 2005 at this point, or right on it. So you're starting to see a normalization of that borrowing, which is good news because that means that people are borrowing the money to do something.

JEFF HARTE: Okay. And looking at the balance sheet, can you talk a little bit about the plans, the level of excess cash? 22% of assets in cash, a 7% plus SLR ratio. It would seem awfully tough to generate ROE or ROA with that much of the balance sheet sitting in cash. Is there something you can do there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think the first thing as you look at that, you have to consider as we went through with the different regulatory metrics we needed to get to that the last metric that we needed to solve for and we wanted to get behind us was the satisfaction of where we needed to be from an LCR perspective in 2017 at both the bank level as well as the parent. And we are to the point where we've gotten to that point, so from an overall liquidity HQLA perspective, we feel very good about that progress.

As you look at on a go-forward basis, obviously the big focus and the reason as a company that we are looking to drive the loan growth that we have is to basically take the excess deposits today that are within the investment portfolio and release them from the investment portfolio into core loan activity to do more with our clients.

So as you look at the changes and mix in the balance sheet as far as the build that you've seen with cash, I think we are at the point where from an overall balance and where we need to be with the different metrics, that we have satisfied that at this point and it will be more of a normal course on a go-forward basis.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think generally thematically if you think about, as we see roles come up we try to get in full compliance as fast as possible even though there is delay dates and then you can then work back on how to continuously improve the way you get there. But the first thing you've got to do is get over the hump because it affects every other aspect of the franchise. And so I think the LCR is another case that we got over the hump. 2017 is two years away still and we are in compliance and then the idea is that you keep -- to figure out how to work the dials to make it more and more shareholder friendly over time. But the first thing you want to do is show you can do it.

JEFF HARTE: Okay, thank you.

LEE MCENTIRE: I think that was the last question. Thanks for joining today and we will talk to you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This concludes the program for today. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect and have a nice day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150417eb4f0018j
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
14,366 words
   PD
15 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Bank of America earnings announcement conference call. (Operator Instructions) Please note this call is being recorded.

   TD
It's now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Lee McEntire. Please go ahead.

LEE MCENTIRE, SVP IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Thanks to everybody on the phone as well as the webcast for joining us this morning for the fourth-quarter results. Hopefully you guys have had a chance to review the earnings release documents available on the website.

Before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce, let me just remind you we may make forward-looking statements. For further information on those, please refer to either our earnings release documents, our website, or our other SEC filings.

So with that let me turn it over to Brian Moynihan, our CEO, for some opening comments, before Bruce Thompson, the CFO, goes through the details. Thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Lee. And good morning and thank all of you for joining us to review our fourth-quarter results for 2014. As we think about the year, we've accomplished a lot, including resolving many significant legacy issues that were overshadowing the underlying progress in our franchise.

Settling those issues obviously came at a cost and drove a decline in year-over-year net income. But importantly, the settlements removed uncertainty for all of us -- for investors, regulators, rating agencies, and others. Allows us to focus on the core business and operations of the Company going forward.

As we move to slide 2, you can see that we have a simplified and stronger Company. Today we reported earnings of $3.1 billion after-tax.

The Company is simpler and more straightforward, with improved risk profile. Everything we do now is focused on driving the Company forward and delivering for our customers and clients.

On this slide you can see some of the important results. This year we completed arguably the industry's largest-ever cost-savings program, which achieved $8 billion of annualized savings.

Let's think about that. We started that program in 2011 when we had around 290,000 FTE. Nevertheless, in the three years since then, driving it the right way, we completed 2014 ending the year with around 220,000 FTEs.

Noninterest expense, excluding litigation, declined $4.4 billion compared from 2013 to 2014, and is down more than $8 billion in the last couple years, and yet we have more work to do ahead of us. We further strengthened an already strong and liquid balance sheet and increased our common stock dividend during 2014 for the first time since 2007.

As you can see on this page, our credit costs are at a decade-low level. So not withstanding the headwinds our industry faces with rates and an ongoing global economic sluggishness, we have built our platform for growth, especially in the context of a continually improving US economy.

We have built a Company with leading market positions across every core customer base, and our task now is to continue to build on that foundation and the progress we've made. As you look at our results, you'll see that year-over-year earnings in our primary businesses, with the exception of the Consumer Real Estate business, made progress that shows stability in a volatile rate and geopolitical environment.

Importantly, as you think about our Company, we have been investing in growth while taking out expense. We reduced our overall headcount during 2014 by around 8%; but at the same time we invested.

We invested by reallocating resources to sales capacity from those savings, increasing in all our core businesses. We invested by reallocating expense reductions to product capabilities, our mobile capabilities, our cash management capabilities, and other capabilities around the world.

We've invested some of those savings and our technology, spending over $3 billion in 2014 to improve and protect our Company. Now you can see the results in the appendix pages, and Bruce will touch on them in the line-of-business presentations.

We expect to continue this effort going forward. We have teams working on it every day. They are working to reallocate nonproductive expense to drive towards growth, allowing us to maintain the good expense management you have come to expect from our Company.

At the same time we are laser focused on winning market share and growing with our customers, the economy continues to improve, and we look forward to reporting that progress during the year ahead. With that, I'll turn it over to Bruce to take you through the quarter's numbers.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Great. Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. Let's start on slide 3, and I'm going to go through the details.

During the fourth quarter, we recorded $3.1 billion of earnings, or $0.25 per diluted share. Let me give you a few thoughts on revenues.

There were two significant adjustments to revenue as well as negative DVA charges that in the aggregate reduced reported revenues this quarter by $1.2 billion pretax or roughly $0.07 a share after-tax. Of the components of the $1.2 billion impact, we recorded a roughly $578 million negative market-related adjustment which, as you all know we refer to as FAS 91, in net interest income for the acceleration of bond premium amortization on our debt securities that was driven by lower long-term rates. Otherwise, our core net interest income, which excludes this market-related adjustment, was pretty stable, with the fourth quarter coming in a little bit better than we signaled to you all during our third-quarter earnings call.

In addition, this quarter we adopted FVA, which is for funding valuation adjustment, and incurred a $497 million charge against our sales and trading results as a result of that adoption. And as we normally provide to you, our credit spreads tightened; and this tightening caused a negative charge for DVA in the trading account of approximately $130 million during the quarter.

Expenses during the quarter were well managed. Our total noninterest expense in the fourth quarter was $14.2 billion, which included approximately $400 million in litigation expense during the quarter.

This level of expense is the lowest level of expense that we've seen since the Merrill Lynch merger. And credit costs during the quarter improved, as our provision for credit losses was $219 million and included $660 million in the release of reserves.

On slide 4, reduced asset levels in our Global Markets business drove our balance sheet levels lower, coming down $19 billion from the third quarter of 2014. And we finished at just over $2.1 trillion in assets. We continued our focus on balance sheet optimization for liquidity as we continued to shift our discretionary portfolio into HQLA-eligible securities from non-HQLA loans and also improved our deposit composition.

As we signaled to you in the third-quarter earnings call, discretionary portfolio first-lien loans declined from the third quarter of 2014 levels; but we were very pleased with the loan growth we saw in our core businesses during the quarter. If we look in those core businesses, Global Banking loans increased $4 billion during the quarter; within Wealth Management, loan balances grew $3 billion; and our US consumer credit card receivables increased $2.9 billion during the quarter.

We did have a $2.7 billion decline in our direct and indirect portfolio as we transferred a portfolio of student loans to held-for-sale. Our deposits grew from the end of the third quarter while short-term funding declined.

We executed another successful issuance of $1.4 billion of preferred stock early in the third quarter, and that benefited regulatory capital. Shareholders equity improved with both the earnings growth as well as the improvements in AOCI. As a result of that, our tangible book value increased to $14.43 per share, and our tangible common equity ratio improved to 7.47%.

If we move to regulatory capital on slide 5, under the Transition rules our CET1 ratio was 12.3%. If we look at our Basel 3 regulatory capital metrics on a fully phased-in basis, CET1 capital improved $6.2 billion during the quarter; that was driven by earnings, deferred tax utilization, as well as the improvement in AOCI.

Our operational risk-weighted assets during the quarter increased again. They now represent 34% of total risk-weighted assets. But notwithstanding that increase, we were able to keep our Basel 3 Advanced ratio at levels consistent with what we saw at the end of the third quarter.

Under the Standardized Approach, our CET1 ratio improved from 9.5% in the third quarter of 2014 to 10% at the end of the year.

If we look at our supplementary leverage ratios, we've done a lot of work over the past year to improve those. Obviously, the fully phased-in kick in in 2018. We look at where we ended the quarter: at our Bank Holding Company, our SLR ratio was at 5.9%; and at our primary banking subsidiary, BANA, we were at approximately 7%.

We turn to slide 6, funding and liquidity, long-term debt ended the quarter at $243 billion, down $7 billion from the third quarter of 2014. We've done a lot of work over the past couple years to smooth out our Parent Company maturity profile; and as you can see, we have $22 billion scheduled to mature in 2015 and comparable amounts over the next four or five years.

Our Global Excess Liquidity Sources reached a record level during the quarter and closed at $439 billion. Within those Global Excess Liquidity Sources, our Parent Company liquidity improved $5 billion from the end of the third quarter to $98 billion at the end of the year.

Time to required funding increased to 39 months during the fourth quarter. And during the quarter we continued to increase our estimated liquidity coverage ratios at both the consolidated as well as at the Bank levels. At the end of the year, we are well ahead of the 100% fully phased-in 2017 requirement at the consolidated level, and at more than 90% at the Bank level, which is well ahead of the 80% phased-in 2015 requirement, and are well positioned to achieve the 2017 requirement.

If we turn to slide 7, on net interest income, our net interest income on an FTE basis was $9.9 billion, down from the third quarter of 2014 as a result of the more negative market-related adjustment I mentioned a moment ago, which also drove a reported net interest yield decline of 11 basis points.

Lower long-term rates coupled with a flattened yield curve resulted in adjustments to our assumptions to our bond premium amortization, which drove the $578 million of market-related adjustments in the fourth quarter versus the negative $55 million we saw during the third quarter of 2014. If we adjust this market-related adjustment, NII was $10.4 billion and declined less than $100 million from the third quarter of 2014, despite the challenging rate environment we saw during the fourth quarter. The adjusted NII decline was driven by the impacts of the lower discretionary loan balances within the Consumer Real Estate portfolio.

If we look at net interest yield on an adjusted basis, it was up a touch from the third quarter of 2014 to 2.3%. Given the movement lower in rates that we saw during the quarter, we did become more asset sensitive, such that a 100 basis point parallel increase in rates from what we saw at the end of the year would be expected to contribute roughly $3.7 billion in NII benefits over the course of the next 12 months. And given the movement in rates, the sensitivity is now more evenly weighted to both long-term as well as short-term rate moves.

Before we leave this slide I do want to remind you that during the first quarter of 2015 we have two fewer interest accrual days than the fourth quarter of 2014, which will negatively impact NII by a couple hundred million dollars.

Noninterest expense -- and I moving to slide 8 -- was $14.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014 and included approximately $400 million in litigation expense. As I said earlier, this is the lowest quarterly expense amount that we have reported since the Merrill Lynch merger.

If we exclude litigation, total expenses were $13.8 billion, which declined $300 million from the third quarter of 2014 and was driven by our LAS initiative cost savings as well as lower revenue-related incentive costs within our Global Markets business. If we compare these expenses to the fourth quarter of 2013, we were down $1.2 billion, driven by LAS cost savings, new BAC benefits, and, to a lesser degree, the lower revenue-related incentives.

Legacy Assets and Servicing costs, ex-litigation, were $1.1 billion in the quarter, $200 million lower than the third quarter and $700 million lower than the fourth quarter of 2013. As we continue to work through these delinquent loans, we expect these quarterly costs will come down a few hundred million dollars more by the end of 2015.

Headcount was down 5,800 during the quarter. And as we look at expense, a reminder that we will record our normal annual retirement-eligible incentive cost in the first quarter of 2015; and we expect that number to be roughly $1 billion, consistent with what we've seen the past couple years.

We turn to asset quality on slide 9. Credit quality continued to improve during the quarter. Q4 provision expense was $219 million, and we released a net $660 million of reserves, given the continued pace of asset quality improvement, particularly within our Consumer Real Estate portfolio.

Reported charge-offs were $879 million and declined from the third quarter of 2014. I would remind you both periods of net charge-offs included NPL sales and other recoveries, and the fourth quarter included approximately $150 million of costs related to actions that were taken in relation to our DOJ settlement, which were previously reserved for.

If we exclude the recoveries and the DOJ component, charge-offs in the fourth quarter were just over $1 billion versus a similarly adjusted net charge-off amount of $1.2 billion in the third quarter of 2014. Loss rates on this same adjusted basis were 47 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus 52 basis points that we saw in the third quarter of 2014.

Let's now move to the business segment results, which we start on slide 10 with Consumer and Business Banking. Our results within Consumer and Business Banking show solid bottom-line performance, with earnings of $1.8 billion. Those were down from the fourth quarter of 2014 due largely to lower release of loan loss reserves and, to a lesser degree, higher tax rates.

The business generated a solid 24% return on allocated capital during the quarter. Revenue was up slightly on a year-over-year basis despite net interest income being down, as our noninterest income grew more than 5%, with a strong improvement in card income.

We look at customer activity during the quarter, we had solid deposit growth; and our rates paid is now at 5 basis points. Loans on a linked-quarter basis increased seasonally, driven by US consumer credit card.

Our card issuance remains very strong, at 1.2 million new cards in the fourth quarter of 2014, of which approximately 67% of those were issued to existing customers. We look at all of 2014, we issued 16% more cards in 2014 than 2013 and increased the percentage of the issuance to our existing customers, which is consistent with the overall strategy. Credit quality improved again, as our US credit card loss rate fell to 2.7% and continues to have a very strong risk-adjusted margin at just below 10%.

Our Merrill Edge brokerage assets grew to $114 billion, which is up 18% year-over-year, on new accounts, strong account flows, as well as higher market levels. Our mobile banking customers reached 16.5 million in the fourth quarter, and now 12% of all customer deposit transactions are done through mobile devices.

If we adjust for portfolio divestitures, combined debit and credit purchase volume was up 4% relative to the fourth quarter of 2013 and, if we back fuel out, was up 5%.

Let's move to Consumer Real Estate Services on slide 11. The improvement in the results compared to the third quarter of 2014 was driven by the third quarter of 2014 DOJ settlement, which impacted expense, provision, as well as income tax.

Revenues did increase slightly over the third quarter of 2014 while expense, even after we exclude litigation, declined from the third quarter as both fulfillment costs on the production side and costs on the delinquent loan servicing side were down from the third quarter. Core production revenue and servicing fees were both stable compared to the third quarter of 2014, while servicing income did benefit from better MSR hedging results.

On the production front, first-mortgage retail originations were stable with the third quarter of 2014 at $11.6 billion, and the pipeline was consistent with the third quarter of 2014 as well, albeit up on a year-over-year basis. On home equity, we're the number-one lender; and line originations during the quarter were $3.4 billion, in line with the third quarter of 2014 and up north of 70% on a year-over-year basis. The credit quality of those second-lien originations remains very strong, with average FICO scores over 790 and combined loan-to-value ratios at less than 60%.

Expenses in the segment did include $262 million of litigation costs in the fourth quarter versus $5.3 billion that we saw in the third quarter of 2014. We continue to work through and resolve our MBS securities litigation matters, including this quarter the FHLB of San Francisco matter. With the resolution of that, we now estimate that we've resolved approximately 98% of the unpaid principal balance of all RMBS as to which RMBS securities litigation has been filed or threatened against all Bank of America related entities.

LAS expense, ex-litigation, this quarter was just over $1.1 billion as we achieved our first quarter of 2015 goal a quarter ahead of schedule. Importantly, the number of 60-plus-day delinquent loans that we have dropped to 189,000 units, which is down 32,000 or 14% from the third quarter of 2014.

If we turn to slide 12, Global Wealth and Investment Management delivered another strong quarter. Pretax margin was strong. Net income was just over $700 million, but was down from the fourth quarter of 2013 as solid fee-based growth was offset by lower net interest income and higher expense.

Record asset management speeds offset some weakness we saw in transactional activity and still drove a 7% increase in noninterest revenue relative to the fourth quarter of 2013. Our asset management fees now represent 45% of revenue within this segment, up from 40% a year ago.

Noninterest expense did increase from the fourth quarter of 2013 as a result of higher performance-based incentives as well as increased support costs. We increased the number of financial advisors; and year-to-date retention of our experienced financial advisors remains at record levels.

Return on allocated capital was 23%. Client balances were nearly $2.5 trillion, up $36 billion from the third quarter of 2014, and were driven by strong client balance inflows.

Long-term AUM flows were $9 billion for the quarter and represented the 22nd consecutive quarter of positive flows. Our record loan flows during the quarter reflect $3 billion in growth over the third quarter of 2014 in securities-based as well as residential mortgage lending. And our period-end deposits were up $7 billion or 3% from the third quarter of 2014.

If we turn to slide 13, Global Banking earnings for the quarter were $1.4 billion, up from the fourth quarter of 2013 on lower credit cost and, to a lesser degree, reduced expenses.

Results were partially -- the net income was partially offset during the quarter on a year-over-year basis by lower investment banking fees off of what was a record level in the fourth quarter of 2013. Return on allocated capital was strong at 18%.

If we look at the investment banking revenues of north of $1.5 billion, we feel very good about the results. They were up on a linked-quarter basis, and our investment banking team executed very well in a tough distribution environment, given the volatility of rates as well as energy prices.

Provision was a slight benefit in the quarter and reflected continued low loss rates and a small reserve release compared to the year-ago period, which included a reserve addition of $434 million. If we look at the balance sheet, we'd point you to average loans were $271 billion, up $3.7 billion from the third quarter of 2014 levels.

We switch to Global Markets on slide 14. The business reported a modest loss in the quarter, but that did include a $497 million charge to implement FVA.

For those unfamiliar with FVA, funding valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the fair value of uncollateralized derivative trades to account for the present value of funding cost. This is an accounting practice many of our peers have also adopted; and as you all know, this is a one-time transition cost for implementation.

Separately, net DVA for the quarter was a loss of $130 million versus a loss of $617 million during the fourth quarter of 2013. Earnings are down from the fourth quarter of 2013 as a result of a decline in sales and trading revenue that was mostly offset by a decline in expense. If you recall, on our fourth-quarter 2013 call, FICC sales and trading during that quarter included $220 million in recoveries on legacy positions in the fourth quarter of 2013.

Sales and trading, adjusting for net DVA and FVA, were $2.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus $2.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013, after we adjust for the recoveries. On this same adjusted basis, FICC sales and trading revenues of $1.5 billion compare to $1.9 billion in the year-ago period.

December results were particularly challenging during the quarter, with the toughest areas of performance being the credit-sensitive businesses within FICC, most notably mortgages and credit trading, which are generally our largest trading revenue-related businesses. On the positive side, we saw increases in both FX and rates revenues versus the prior year that were driven by increased volatility, given global deflationary expectations leading to the US dollar strengthening.

Equity sales and trading was up modestly from the fourth quarter of 2013, as increased volatility was a positive for secondary flows across both our cash and derivative trading businesses.

On the expense front, the decline reflects litigation expense of $655 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. If we take that litigation expense out, expenses still declined 5% from the fourth quarter of 2013 as the incentives were reduced to align with the revenue performance that we saw.

On slide 15, All Other, the results in the fourth quarter of 2013 reflect lower revenue from NII, largely associated with the market-related adjustments that we've discussed, as well as lower securities gains and equity investment income, partially offset by gains on the sale of certain loans with long-term standby agreements that were converted to securities. Significant equity investment income is largely a thing of the past for us, as we've reduced the size of the principal investing positions in the business as well as strategic positions, and should be modeled accordingly.

You'll also notice we took additional reserves for the payment protection insurance, but at a lower level than we saw during the third quarter of 2014. Our fourth-quarter 2014 expense is down year-over-year on less nonmortgage litigation expense and lower infrastructure costs.

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 29%, and I would expect the tax rate for the Company in 2015 to be in the low 30%s absent any unusual items.

One other thing I want to mention before wrapping up is some movement in our business lines that you'll see as we report them to you in 2015. In the first quarter of 2015, we expect to align Business Banking into our Global Banking business, which takes this more commercial business out of our core Consumer and Business Banking unit. In addition, we expect to move the home loans portion of our Consumer Real Estate Services business to Consumer Banking, as this product remains integral to their relationships with us.

So to conclude my comments, as we look at both 2014 and the fourth quarter of 2014, capital and liquidity reached record levels, which provides a solid base to support our businesses that hold leading or top-tier positions in the industry. We continue our focus on expense and operating leverage after reaching significant milestones this year on both New BAC as well as LAS cost-saving initiatives.

We reported a quarter of much lower legacy assets and servicing operating and litigation costs, which have been burdening our reported results. Asset quality continued its trend of improvement against a slowly improving US macroeconomic backdrop, and we continue to remain well positioned to benefit in an environment where rates start to increase.

With that, we'll go ahead and open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. Hey, I just want to talk a little bit about the asset sensitivity and how we should be thinking about that from here. In particular, as you know, the long end of the curve has come down since the end of the quarter.

So just wanted to understand: is that FAS 91 effect Q-to-date given what the long end of the curve has done? And then maybe you could speak to what you are doing to try to minimize any further pressure.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. A couple things. If you recall, Betsy, we've historically been saying that the 100 basis points is in the $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion range. And think of the increase to $3.7 billion more or less just representing the recapturing of the FAS 91 that we saw this quarter.

That's why we referenced that there's been more asset sensitivity on the long side. The short-end side really hasn't changed at all.

BETSY GRASECK: Sure. Then given the fact that the 10-year is now yielding like 1.8% or so, should we assume -- like if we end the quarter in 1Q at 1.8%, that the same type of 10 basis points down draw is FAS 91-affected, the same in first quarter as it was in fourth quarter? Or is it, because you're more asset sensitive, there is a little bit higher impact?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, it's a good question. I think when we looked at this last night, that the movement that we've seen so far in the first quarter of 2015 is almost identical to what we saw during the fourth quarter. So if you were to snap it off of what we saw last night, it would be a comparable-type number, realizing we still have two and a half months ago.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Is there any give-back in refi activity that you are expecting?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, it's, say, if we look at -- we referenced in refi activity increased as a percentage of overall mortgage production in the fourth quarter. And as I said in my prepared remarks, if we look at the pipelines and compare the mortgage pipeline at year-end relative to the comparable period, it's up pretty significantly.

We'll just have to see how that plays out, realizing that the first quarter does tend to be a little bit seasonally slow.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The other thing, Betsy, is that in January to date there's been a stark move in the amount of applications coming in -- a very stark upward move due to this last rate fall-off. So as those things close through we'd expect to see some pickup in production this quarter from the refi.

BETSY GRASECK: Got it. Okay. That's super. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Hi, Bruce. Just wanted to follow up on the NII. On the core side of NII, ex- the FAS 91, your core NII held up well despite what you'd indicated in October about being conservative with the buy ticket.

I guess, how did you hold the core in on NII? And how are you navigating that now in what feels like an even more difficult environment for reinvesting cash flows today, with the 10-year where it is?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. That's a good question, John. I think there are a couple things.

The first is, if you look at in the quarter -- I think we did a good job with respect to the overall debt footprint, which was down $7 billion, which helped us out a little bit. Secondly, if you look at we were able to get another basis point out on the deposit front. And throughout the quarter we saw some loan growth that was a little bit better than what we would have seen when we spoke to you during the quarter.

The other thing that we did see during the quarter is we were able to invest and get some of the investments in the portfolio in -- I believe it was in mid-November when rates did back up. And as we go forward, we do have liquidity to invest in the second and third months of the quarter and will be prudent with how we invest it relative to OCI risk.

The other thing I would say just before we leave this, John, that I should've referenced with Betsy's point is that it's easy to focus on the FAS 91 because we're resetting the amortization of premium. I think the other thing you need to realize that we did see in the quarter is, with the rate movement up, while you do have a negative on FAS 91 you've got a significant positive from a capital perspective, where OCI in the quarter from the rate movement was north of $3 billion.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got you, got you. So on the core piece, Bruce, do you expect it to be more challenging, to hold in to that $10.4 billion with the 10-year where it is? Does it make it more difficult? And what kind of -- how should we think about the risk to the $10.4 billion if rates stay low?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think, as I said in my comments, the $10.4 billion you really need to start out with at about $10.2 billion because you've got two less days during the quarter. Then say there is a little bit of headwind to hold that on a core basis, and we are obviously doing everything we can to keep it as close to $10.2 billion as we can, realizing that we're not going to take outsized OCI risk.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then shifting gears on expenses, you got the LAS target a quarter ahead of time. Do you have a year-end target? I think you said you expect to continue to reduce the LAS to $1.1 billion. Can you just clarify that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think as we look out and we look at the plans and actions along with the progress that we've made on the 60-plus-day delinquents, I think broadly speaking -- and as you know, this number can bounce around a little bit -- that we'd look to have the LAS expenses down to the $800 million type area by the end of the year. And we are obviously working through plans as we look out to 2016 to continue to drive that number south of $800 million as we go forward.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. How should we think about the core rest of Bank of America expenses where you came in nicely at the $12.7 billion for the fourth quarter? Obviously, you mentioned the stock option expense stuff in the first quarter; but as we think about 2015, what are you hoping to do on the core expense base?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: You know, John, I think -- I will answer at a broad level and then Bruce can touch in. So if you think about it in the fourth quarter, a couple things happened.

One is, you've got to remember the market spread, that revenue, it was down. So be careful not to forget that as we see it coming back this quarter, expect it to rise as it traditionally does in first quarter: that would be an increased expense -- which you should want, obviously.

But from the rest of it, it's basically a continuous process of taking out expenses and then either bring in the bottom line or reinvest in the growth. So to give you a straightforward way, in the fourth quarter the reduction to headcount of approximately 5,000, 1,100 or so was LAS and the rest was core activity where we just keep drawing down the expense base. At the same time, we've added salespeople during that quarter.

So what we're trying to do is -- I wouldn't expect it to fall dramatically. But I'd expect you guys to be able to see us continue to make strong investment in sales capacity, technology, products while holding expenses relatively flat with a slight downward bias, irrespective of -- you just got to be careful of compensation related to revenue, because we'd all want that to be higher.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, hi; good morning. In FICC, seems a little bit below what certainly I was looking for. I know you highlighted some of the difficult markets that you are large in. Was there any specific positional pain, given what we saw in some of the credit spreads and some of the movements there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, not at all. You have to go back to the core premise that we talk about, which is that the Banking and Markets businesses are run as an integrated business. And a lot of the activity that we see within the Markets area is in market making and other things that are done off of the new issue platform from an underwriting perspective.

I think what we saw during the quarter, particularly in December, was that there was a significant slowdown as we saw overall volatility in the markets from both a new issue as well as a secondary market perspective that flowed through. But there were not any -- if you're looking, there were no losses or particular pain points within the Global Markets piece of the equation during the quarter.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks. That helps. Then can you guys add any comment to the press reports we've seen recently about you all rationalizing the PB business and cutting ties to 150 hedge fund clients?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think this is a customer profitability exercise that -- as we look at driving the franchise, the way Tom and [Fab Gall] and the team have done a good job of repositioning the equities business, we have to constrain the prime brokerage a bit due to size, because it's lower balance sheet return, as you would be aware of.

But importantly, it's a customer profitability: we're looking for customers who will use us with multiple products and services, whether it's fixed income, equities, in all aspects of fixed income. So as we take the scarce resource, which is the GAAP balance sheet and the RWA balance sheet, and allocate it across customers, we've got to make sure we get the returns, and this was a natural reflection of it.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Should we expect to think about some revenue headwinds in your equities business as we model out 2015, as a result of some of those efforts?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would say no; it's all pretty much through it right now. As you look at the revenues quarter-to-quarter they run plus or minus $1 billion, and Fab and the team have done a good job of increasing the yield from the other clients at the same time. So that absent market forces, I wouldn't expect it to have much of an effect.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Terrific. Okay. Then helpful to hear about the target of around $800 million for LAS by year-end and then driving it lower in 2016. Can you help us think about how you think about that number to zero?

Because I mean, ultimately, that's -- given the title, the L in the LAS, right? That's got to go to zero eventually. How should we think about that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, you've got the (inaudible). There's and in there, so it is all the servicing expense in the Company is in that unit, for all good loans and bad loans. So it doesn't go to zero, but it's got to get a lot better.

Because if you start to noodle on the 4 million or so units we have in first-mortgage servicing, and think about the annualized cost, we've got to get it down significantly, make servicing mortgages make sense to us. But that's a project that we are working against doing it the right way for the customer, doing it the right way for the regulatory environment, and the consent orders and all the things that have gone on, as you're well aware of. So we've just got to keep peeling that away.

So when we say $800 million or so, that is the next way station on our train ride here. But it's got to go a lot further than that for the 3.5 million to 4 million of good units we have, so to (technical difficulty)

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. So no indication about where that settling-out level might ultimately be? Even if not a win, but kind of what the number would be?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think -- yes, we've talked about $0.5 [million], but I'm not sure that's a great performance in that over time either. So just assume that there is nobody more interested in driving that number down to a normalized servicing cost than this Company.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Fair enough. And then, last one for me. You guys hit on in the Wealth Management business and the margin there, support costs and revenue-related comp. Could you maybe quantify how much each of those factors impacted the margin change quarter-over-quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes. I think if you look at the -- a couple things. The first is that from a margin perspective, you had a little bit of a headwind with NII being lower than what it was. But as you look at the support costs during the quarter, I would think of that as being about 200 basis points on the margin during the quarter that we saw.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi. Thanks very much. I wonder if we could get your best comment that you can give us on energy-related exposures. In your Q you have a general comment on energy and $20 billion. But if you could break it down a little bit more, what's secured, what's not secured, what's investment grade, what's not, and just how overall you feel your position there -- it would be helpful.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. I think if we look at the amount of funded exposure across what we refer to as oil and gas, that the amount of funded exposure, which includes derivative exposure, was roughly $23 billion at the end of the year. As you look at that $23 billion, I would think of it generally as 60% that's directly reflected or affected by the price of oil. There are a lot of those that are not.

So you've got roughly $22 billion, $23 billion funded; 60% directly affected by oil. Well north of 80% of that are investment-grade borrowers. And for those noninvestment-grade borrowers, they are obviously secured facilities and in most cases have formulas upon which they can borrow based on the value of the assets that we are secured by.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think if you think overall, one of the things that give you a perspective that we see is in the consumer spending in January -- debit and credit cards basically. We've seen the spending go up by 3%. And if you look at the fuel side of that, it's about 5% of that total spending, and it is down 28% year-over-year.

So the people are getting a benefit. Our consumer customers are getting a benefit, but they are re-spending that benefit and the overall spending levels are growing through it.

So there is competing -- there is a technical risk to the oil-producing companies that Bruce just talked you through. But the overall economy, even in the first week or so of January, we're seeing the benefit to the consumer very starkly in the year-over-year comparison.

GLENN SCHORR: I definitely appreciate all that. You said that was the funded to oil and gas. Is commitments a larger number, I think, than that? And do you have the ability to pull back on the commitments?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, well, I think on average the fundings are roughly 50% of what the commitments are. As it relates to the pulling back of commitments, I think what I would point to and what our teams did a very good job with is we obviously have commitments in the originate-to-distribute piece, which if we look at, we ended the year I believe with two commitments of investment-grade borrowers on an originate-to-distribute basis, one of which has had a significant positive event from a financing perspective already this year. The other is a single-A credit that will get done in the second quarter.

And outside of the investment-grade originate-to-distribute, I think there was a couple hundred million dollars that still needed to get done. So you're not pulling commitments from borrowers; but as it relates to commitments that needed to be distributed, the teams have done a very good job.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. I don't want to put words in your mouth, but it sounds like you are semi-comfortable with the positioning. There will be some hits along the way, but this is not a major risk to the portfolio? Again, I don't want to put words in your mouth.

BRUCE THOMPSON: We're comfortable with the positions. You should assume as we are making these commitments in environments where oil is higher, we're continually running and stressing those portfolios to be comfortable with the commitments.

And as Brian referenced, to the extent that we are in a prolonged period where these prices persist, to the extent that there are costs that run through because of difficulties that a commercial or corporate borrower may have, that as we look across the overall credit platform you'd expect there to be offsets, given what we're seeing with consumers and other people that are benefiting from lower energy prices.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, that's helpful. Last one from me is I didn't hear anything on TLAC. If you could tell us where you think your ratio shook out, net of the conservation buffer and the SIFI buffer, that would be helpful.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think if you look at where we are from a TLAC perspective, we are generally in the 21% type area. And embedded in that 21% type area is the fact that structured notes -- we've assumed for that purpose that we would not benefit from structured note funding. And if we refinanced out those structured notes you'd pick up another 1% to 2% based on the current size of the debt footprint.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. I just want to make sure: the 21% is net of the conservation buffer and your SIFI buffer, or gross of?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, it's gross of. That is a gross of. So you're roughly 21%, call it, plus another 1% to 2% for structured notes; and then depending on the exact treatment of the buffers as we go through that, that number would be reduced by the buffers.

GLENN SCHORR: Got it, okay. Perfect. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Good morning. Just a quick question on the balance sheet and NII. Appreciate the efforts to keep NIM flat; but to really get NII growing, we've got to start to see, I guess, the balance sheet on a net basis grow.

I think your balance sheet was down close to $25 billion this quarter. At what point do we start to see the net balance sheet -- the restructuring of the balance sheet start to give way to growth?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think what you're going to see as we go forward is that, as we look out into our forecasted models, we would expect there to continue to be strong deposit growth throughout 2015. And as we referenced before, obviously the goal with that deposit growth is very much a focus to grow loans within our core customer segments.

As I referenced, we saw that within the Global Banking space this quarter. We saw it within Wealth Management. We are seeing pickups in overall mortgage activity.

So I think you're likely to see the balance sheet creep up as deposits come in and as we look to grow loans. I just want to make sure, though, that we remind you that we will continue to see the discretionary portfolio that has got whole loans in it, that in this rate environment they will continue to repay. So as you judge how we do on loan growth, you need to look at the core businesses.

As I said, we would expect to start to see the balance sheet move up. And at the same time, we're trying to get things that don't have a return and aren't core to what we do off. But to your point, I think we are largely through that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, and I think if you think about it, say two years ago I think we cited about $100-odd-billion of noncore loans; that's down around to $30 billion. And a dominant part of that is still in the home equity area, quite frankly.

So in the card business and in the Business Banking area where we had some stuff that was put on by some predecessor company, we're largely through all that. And that's why you're seeing some growth there.

So the card you saw grow; it's seasonal, but it grew and it started to -- it's been stable for a number of quarters. The good home equity side is growing quite strongly.

The stuff we're running off in home equity starts is high charge-off contents, a better decision economic for the Company to run it. But the rest of the loan balances, we ought to see grow, with the exception of the discretionary residential mortgage holdings which will continue to run down, based on a better view of what we want to do for [ALCO] management going forward.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay. I think, Bruce, to your point, the deleveraging around trying to improve the leverage ratio is -- the impact of that should be easing going forward. Is that what you're saying?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay. Just one last, a follow-up on -- I don't know if you mentioned this: where you guys are in the NSFR.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, we've done a lot of work. We have not put anything out public on that, but as we've looked through it and sorted through it, we do not see that being a constraint as we go forward.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, great. That's it for me. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. The capital ratios grew more than expected. Obviously the decline in rates helped the positive earnings, and you mentioned the DTA consumption.

As we think about 2015 and the drivers of capital, is it more of the same? Or is there, call it, optimization overall? Not just the loan runoff that you address, but as we think about -- you've had Final Rules for the last few months; there are still some adjustments to the business throughout.

How should we think about the capital build? And if you have an estimate for 2015, that would be interesting as well.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. We're not going to provide an estimate, but what I would say is that, as you look at overall capital levels, if you start with the numerator, as we project out and look at the earnings stream we think that at least through 2015, and possibly into the first part of 2016, that on average -- and you can have some quarterly bounces around based on timing and payments -- but that generally we should accrete capital over the course of at least four and up to six quarters largely based on the pretax earnings of the Company, as opposed to the after-tax earnings. And that's what you saw during the fourth quarter.

The other thing on the numerator, as I referenced, that there is -- and if we were to snap a quarter today, there would be OCI benefit from the downward movement in rates.

As it relates to what we are seeing on the risk-weighted assets side, I would say generally we continue to benefit, although it declines a little bit each period. We continue to benefit from the runoff of some of the Global Markets positions that would have been put on in the 2005 to 2008 time frame that tended to have tenors of 7 to 10 years.

In addition to that, as we continue to have payoffs and as we continue to move out some of the tougher Consumer Real Estate assets and put higher-quality real estate assets on that are better credit borrowers, while the asset levels may stay comparable you do have an RWA pickup from that as well.

MATT O'CONNOR: On RWA, any numbers you can provide in terms of how much benefit you get from the -- I guess just priced on the credit correlation book and some of those contracts and the real estate running off, just those two pieces?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, I mean I think as you look forward, these tend to be -- I think outside of op-risk quarter we had roughly $30 billion of risk-weighted asset benefit under the Advanced Approach. Roughly half of that was in the consumer books, half of it was in the wholesale books. I think you'll continue to see benefits, but I don't think you'll see the quarterly benefit of that magnitude on a go-forward basis.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then just separately, the home equity charge-offs increased a fair amount versus 3Q. Obviously, 3Q is a very low level. But remind me what's going on there.

I think there was an accounting or methodology change a year ago. Has that fully worked through? Or is there a seasonality or (multiple speakers)? What's going on?

BRUCE THOMPSON: The biggest thing you had in home equity this quarter is that I believe it was roughly $150 million that went through charge-off that was related to the DOJ settlement. So realize you have $150 million of charge-off, $150 million of reserve; so from a net P&L perspective, it was a push.

But you did have that during the quarter, and it's the reason that we wanted to give you the core charge-off number Q3 to Q4. Because as we implement the DOJ settlement you will see both charge-off and reserve release come out in each of probably the first and second quarter; then we should be largely through that.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Hi, good morning. Bruce, I was hoping you could maybe help explain what prompted the increase in operational risk RWA? The 34% I guess makes you an outlier relative to some of your peers, whereas previously you were more in line.

I know the process typically is you submit the models to the regulators and/or the Fed and then they give you feedback. I wanted to know: was the increase prompted by the feedback from the regulators themselves as part of the annual review? Or was it what you determined based on your own internal models?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Answer the question slightly differently, which is that as we work through an iterative process with our regulatory supervisors, we do believe at this point that, from an op-risk perspective, that we are adjusted and the amount of op-risk RWA that we have now is consistent with what you would need to exit parallel run.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay, understood. So we shouldn't expect any further increases as a percentage of RWA going forward; or is it simply too early to make that determination?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We think with respect to op-risk RWA that we are there. We obviously need to get through those elements that are the rest of parallel run. But from an op-risk perspective we feel like we're there.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay. That's really great. Then just one more quick one for me. I didn't hear in the prepared remarks any color on the investment banking backlog and didn't know if you can give us an update there as well.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, it's interesting, and we have to be a little bit careful. I would say as we looked at the backlog in the pipeline, particularly from an M&A perspective, that we feel very good about where the pipeline was at year-end. It's one of the stronger year-end pipelines that we have.

I think the only tone of caution I would say is that we've obviously seen a little bit more volatility in both the fixed income and equity new issue markets. But as it relates to the amount of business that we are winning, that's getting queued up and is in the pipeline, we feel very good about that. It was a good back backlog at year-end.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay. Great. That's it for me. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thanks. Good morning. I just wanted to follow up on a couple of topics that have been touched on already. Maybe just starting with the risk-weighted asset discussion once more, I just want to make sure I understand all the puts and takes of what's going into the risk-weighted asset calc.

It sounds like on the positive side, obviously, there is the benefit of a GAAP balance sheet reduction as well as the trade-off between lower-quality and higher-quality assets. And it sounds like the operating-risk component is now fully baked in. But are there any other components that could drive that up in a way that's different from what's going on, on the GAAP balance sheet?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think the only thing that's out there is that, as part of exiting parallel run we are working through with our supervisors the different wholesale and other credit models that you need to exit parallel run. So we are working through that.

But I think absent that, you're largely at the point of looking at and you'd expect that the RWA is going to largely follow the GAAP balance sheet. The one thing, and I think you all know this, where you could possibly diverge from that is that there is a procyclicality to the extent that you have volatility in the Markets businesses as it relates to the stress VaR calculations that go into the risk-weighted asset. But outside of that, you would directionally expect it to follow the GAAP balance sheet.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay. And with respect to the GAAP balance sheet, what is your overall expectation about the net growth over 2015?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think you're probably going to largely see it in the ZIP Code and probably be most correlated to the overall deposit balances. If you look at the range that we've been running at over the last 12 months, it's been in the 2.1 to 2.15, 2.175 type area. And I'd expect that area or that range to hold for 2015.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great. Then just to talk about the asset quality for a moment, obviously it was the lowest provision that we've seen from you in some time; and many of your peers are inflecting from the point of asset quality improvements to some modest now deterioration and the rebuilding of reserves. I just want to get a sense from you about where you think you are in that spectrum.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. Well, I think if we go back -- and let's start with the fact that we saw during the quarter that if we back out any impact of loan sales as well as the DOJ settlement, charge-offs in the fourth quarter came down from $1.2 billion to just over $1 billion. I think as you look at charge-offs, when you're at virtually zero from a commercial perspective, it's hard to see getting much better than that.

I do think where we are probably a little bit different is that as we continue to work through -- and we had another solid improvement of a couple billion dollars from an NPL perspective within the Consumer Real Estate space -- that we continue to work through and reduce those tougher Consumer Real Estate credits. But I think that if you look at this $1 billion charge-off type level that we've seen, we're probably at areas where you're going to see that flatten out.

I think as we look forward there may be a little bit of reserve release on the front end -- on the first half of the year. And you'd probably expect that to flatten out and go away as we get through 2015.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great. Then just finally on the LAS expense, which I know you've touched on several times, but I'm just wondering if the pace of that improvement changes at all as you are getting into the later stages of the delinquency and foreclosure inventory improvement.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, it did. It [does] that and the plus side is that you have an ability to push the numbers down faster as the economy continues to improve and the market continues to improve and the opportunities for borrowers and time passes, frankly.

The flip side of that, though, is in the states that -- in the areas where the process is slow, you're sort of boiling the beaker, and what's left is in the really slow areas. So we've sort of caught up in the states where the process goes through at a reasonable fashion; and we still have the laggards in places that the process is traditionally oriented.

So I think you're absolutely right. There is a bias that as you get better at it and get lower, it starts improving; but against that you get to some of the rocks that are harder to move because the process is so slow.

Secondly is, remember that we had -- we took it up to almost 58,000 employees in that business. And there is a lag to getting the real estate costs out and letting off the buildings and all the stuff that we have to do. So we've got to be a little careful we're getting ahead of ourselves.

The headcount comes out first; the facilities then come out second. And so we are working hard on that.

So you're right, that once you see the improve -- the pace of improvement continues almost nominally or even nominally better than the past, but there are obvious -- there are just some things that work against you in terms of assets left are harder, and then secondly there is a lag to the hard costs over and above the people costs.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great. Wonderful. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Autonomous Research.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Good morning. I just want to go back to the net interest margin discussion a little bit. I thought that I heard you say in the prepared comments that there had been a shift in the balance of the asset sensitivity to more of a balance between long-term versus short-term rates. I was wondering if that is strictly a function of the FAS 91 issue in a falling long-rate environment. Or is there something more structural that you've been doing with the portfolio that has caused that to happen?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's the FAS 91, Guy; you're absolutely correct.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. Then if we can just take a look at that one historically for a second, obviously over time that has caused quite a lot more volatility in your NIMs than it has for a lot of the peer group. I seem to remember that for regional banks, say, that have often had the same issue, there is a difference, I guess, in the way they accrue versus doing the constant resets that you do. And I was wondering why you do it in the way that you do, which seems to create more volatility.

BRUCE THOMPSON: We probably wondered the same thing this quarter. All kidding aside, I think if you go back, you're right; there are two ways that you can do this.

The first is the way that we do it, which is: you have the premium; you look at the average life of the premium; and each quarter you reset it and basically retroactively make that adjustment from when it started. And that was the determination that we had made a number of years ago.

But you're right. The other way that that is allowed and provided for under GAAP is that you just basically adjust as you go, and take it through the P&L as you go. And you can do it either of two ways, and we obviously do it the way that we do.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Would you ever consider changing that? And if you were to do so, would there be a significant one-time charge that would be associated with that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, I think it goes the other way. The reality is, is that we run through the P&L that amortization to catch up for, in effect, if rates ended up being lower than when the premium was set on. So I think the way that we do it is absolutely appropriate.

And keep in mind, the other thing -- and I referenced in my earlier comment -- is that as you do this from a balance sheet perspective, you're always adjusting the valuation of your AFS securities to be the fair market value at the time that you publish your financials. And obviously that flows through OCI.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Yes, fair enough. You also talked about changing line items or lines of business, where certain things are booked, as we move into 2015. That was fairly clear, except I was wondering: will this also entail moving the very large investment portfolio of your mortgages from All Other into the Consumer category?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It will not result in a large portion of mortgages being moved. There may be a smaller amount or a percentage of it that we continue to evaluate, because the one thing that we want to make sure that we do is to have the geography of the financial statements motivate the behavior of the people that serve the client base that they do.

So there may be possibly a relatively small amount of home equity loans that could travel into the Consumer business. But it's not going to be anything that distorts things in any meaningful way.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. Thanks. Then final one for me. You talked a little bit about the Investment Banking backlog at the turn of the year. But more broadly for Global Markets and Global Banking taken together, can you give us a sense -- now that we're a couple weeks into the year -- how the, in particular say, trading activity has started off?

And given some of the increase in volatility, especially with big moves like what happened with the Swiss franc today, are you instructing the Global Markets business to pull back on risk? Or generally are you seeing that some of those volatility levels are in some way beneficial?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think there's a couple parts of that. The first is, I think if you look at overall risk levels that we ran within the Global Markets business and if you look at our information that we put out at year-end, that even with a little bit of a pickup in volatility at year-end, VaR was at low levels and overall balance sheet levels were at low levels as we exited the year.

I think we are nine trading days into the quarter, so I think it's a little bit early to forecast what you would expect for the quarter for the overall sales and trading businesses. The only thing I would say is that clearly the activity levels that we've seen, that it's been more of a return to normal than what we experienced in the month of December, but I wouldn't want anyone to draw any conclusions when we are nine days through 62 trading days in a quarter.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Sure, it's early. Thanks very much. I appreciate the color.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Thank you very much, and most of the questions has been answered. But on your legacy assets -- and you talked about this a little bit, where your default numbers have dropped roughly to 189,000 from roughly I think 220,000. Did you sell anything? Or is that all improvement in just credit in the quarter?

In other words, did you move the houses out, or did you also sell?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, my recollection is there was -- roughly a third of that came from the sales of both servicing as well as the underlying loans themselves. Then in addition to that, we saw continued improvement in the net new 60-pluses. And then we obviously worked others through the normal foreclosure process, as well as for those borrowers that cured.

PAUL MILLER: One of the things that -- because I -- on your -- you made a comment about that the lower oil prices has improved some of the consumer credit, consumer spending, and all that. Are you seeing any improvement in working through those 60-day defaults from that? Or those loans are just so old relatively speaking in the default bucket that the lower oil prices really doesn't help out?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I'd say it is much too early to figure out what the oil price impact would have on mortgage defaults. What we are saying is you're actually seeing consumers spend the money they are getting; and you're seeing the consumer credit quality stay strong.

But as you project out a period of low prices, you would see a benefit on the consumer side offset by the commercial side. So I'm not sure, Paul, in the context of what's in that 60-day bucket that it will have a meaningful impact.

It hasn't had a meaningful impact so far. It's just pretty early days.

But the good news is if you look at our delinquencies in the first-mortgage portfolios they keep coming down. And that's what drives long-term reduction.

PAUL MILLER: Brian, I missed -- I was writing it down as fast as I could, but you talked about how that you are seeing consumer balances increase over the last couple months, I guess, or last month. Can you go over those numbers again?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Consumer spending increased. Is that what you're referencing, Paul?

PAUL MILLER: Yes.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So far, January of 2015 versus January of 2014, spending on credit and debit cards is up about 3% year-over-year. And that is overcoming a drag effect of about 1.5 percentage from lower fuel prices.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Hey, guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thank you. I wanted to drill into the Markets business a little bit. In the sense that we've seen pressure on fixed income the last two quarters, is there anything in the drivers of that weakness that would jeopardize the seasonal uptick that we usually see in the first quarter?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If I understand your question, I think that the answer to that is no. If you go back and look at -- with the exception of last year, the fourth quarter does tend to be the weakest quarter of the year seasonally. It was obviously a little bit more so this quarter.

But structurally, there's nothing that would lead you to that. I would just -- obviously, it's a market that ebbs and flows. But no, there is not anything structural that would lead you to believe that that should be different.

MARTY MOSBY: Then there is a lot of noise in the Markets business, and I tried to take out as much as I could. What I'm trying to look at is expense elasticity relative to the revenues.

From third quarter to fourth quarter it looked very effective, was about 80% in relation to expenses to revenue reduction. But over the last year, when you take out the litigation expense, looks like operating expenses only declined about 20% of what revenues declined.

So I was just curious what you thought maybe the right elasticity number would be there.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think largely what you saw in the fourth quarter was a reflection of the change in the incentive levels due to the lower revenue. And you'd expect that to happen.

But let me bring that up a little higher to a more broader point, which is about two, three years ago, Tom Montag and the team made a fundamental restructuring of that business to drop its expense base to where as long as we get $2.5 billion more revenues, more or less, we start making some money. And if you adjust the FVA charge, which is the one-time charge, they made somewhere around $300 million this quarter, to give you a sense.

So in its worst quarter, it earns $300 million; in its best quarter it earns over $1 billion. And that largely is really marginally profitable when you see the revenues go from the high $2 billions to the, say, $3 billion level up to the $4 billion level. Most of that comes through with a tariff on compensation of around 19%, 20% or something like that.

So there is elasticity, but as you get the lower level you start to hit the floor on the fixed cost structure.

MARTY MOSBY: That's very helpful. Then Brian, lastly, you've talked several times about the core expenses and the investments you're making. A lot of the core businesses, really all except Banking, showed declines in net income sequentially and year-over-year. Do you feel like you're investing to try to reignite some of that growth going forward?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes -- no, one of the things you've got to be careful of is they reflect -- all these charges that we talk about in NII get pushed out to all the businesses. So there's some elements that really aren't in the business's control, for lack of a better term.

And then secondly, you're still seeing -- as we move from a period where reserve releases were going on at the business level, you're seeing provision changes across-the-board that have it. But by and large, the rest, if you look at the fees and the direct expenses, which are the two things they control the most, you see a pretty good relationship going on and pretty good stability.

And I'd say as you look across the businesses, the Consumer Bank continues to make good progress on sales capabilities. And its actual sales, you can look at some of the later pages; you can see it.

I said Wealth Management, we've got to make sure the expenses and the revenue stay in line there. We talked about that last quarter, and John Thiel and the team, especially in Merrill Lynch, are doing a good job of getting after that.

Then in Banking, I think you've seen a pretty good relationship, if you back out the fundamental impacts of FAS 91 and the provision and things like that, which they -- those are adjustments we make at the top of the house and push through.

MARTY MOSBY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi. You highlighted that the expenses are at the lowest levels since the Merrill merger, and we estimate that they are down almost one-fourth over five years so that's certainly good. But we also note that revenues are down quite a bit over that time frame too.

So how do you evaluate the trade-off between more aggressive restructuring and investing in the franchise? And specifically, you're pretty much done, I think, with New BAC. Would you have a program -- maybe Even Newer BAC, or a new restructuring plan?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, I'd say, Mike, the other piece of that is obviously the credit costs you've got to think about, in terms of if you look back and look at the higher revenue levels at the time. The charge-off run rate was $2 billion and $3 billion a quarter; at one quarter it was $10 billion if you remember, for cards especially. So be careful about that.

But I'd say your point really is: what do you do from now forward? And we see -- we talked about it in the core expense base, leave aside the LAS, the litigation, all that stuff, but just the core expense base. Basically what we continue to do is to take out nonproductive expenses and invest part of that back in the franchise and bring part of that to the ability to see that core line continue to move down -- nudge down.

Remember that when we are doing this we're absorbing health cost increases, wage and salary increases, incentive comp increases. So we are heavily focused on maintaining a rational balance between the core revenue and the core expense dynamic going forward.

So you should expect, assume, that there is a continuous program of looking at this, to continue to simplify our Company, continue to take out the vestiges of the cost of the crisis. And as we have downsized the Company, take out the overhead that was harder to shake out, as you're well aware.

So we are laser focused on it. But I think on the other hand, we continue to invest in sales capacity; and you see that reflected in things like card sales and home equity sales and auto loan sales, direct auto loan sales. All increased.

MIKE MAYO: So don't expect another new program with expense targets, just more of a day-to-day perspective now?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: No. Remember, we absorb -- if you think of 60% of our costs being people costs, and you think of inflationary level of cost increases of 3% on those, basically to keep costs down and flattish you've got to work your tail off. Whether -- and that's the process going forward.

We had to drop the cost down to get into a reasonable level. We'll continue to make improvement relative to the revenues.

And if the world gets different, we will then have to revisit it. But right now in this revenue environment, even a slow growth environment, we can keep the costs flat as revenues start to rise.

MIKE MAYO: Then a separate question: what are your key financial targets for 2015? I know you've expressed some of your targets, assuming interest rates increase. But if interest rates don't increase, what should investors evaluate you on at the end of 2015?

All I had to go on without the higher interest rates is page 42 of the proxy that talks about the PRSUs. It says as long as you get over a 50 basis point ROA you go in the money on the PRSUs. So I'm not sure if I should be looking at the 50 basis point number, or it's 80 basis points, 100% in the money, or the 1% number that you've talked about before.

But again, assuming rates don't go up, what's your ROA and ROE target for 2015?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Mike, we don't give specific projections, but our goal is to continue to take the earnings from the $3 billion level this quarter and drive them forward. And our view is that, based on everything we see, as we see the impact of all the work we're doing plus the rollover of the cost saves, the reduction in LAS costs, the litigation falling back to the kinds of levels you saw this quarter, you'll see us move towards those long-term goals of 1% ROA and 12% return on tangible common equity.

MIKE MAYO: One last try. That 1% and 12%, that assumes higher interest rates. If your forecasts do not expect higher interest rates as soon as they do right now, at what point would you take additional action with expenses? And how do you think about that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We take additional action on expenses every afternoon. In other words, we had 4,000 reduction in FTE in the fourth quarter of 2014, Mike, out of the core franchise to keep getting efficient. So we work on expenses every day, and we have teams of people working to do all the things that you expect us to do.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. Two questions.

Brian, I'm a little bit confused about the card growth. I think you said you got 1.2 million new cards out in the fourth quarter. Is that -- and didn't you mention something about it being seasonal? You've got lots of ground that you can gain in that business, and I just want to clarify whether this is something extraordinary going on here and what your projections are for the future for growth there.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, Nancy; sorry if we confused you. Let's talk about the production of new card units.

That's the 1.2 million -- 1.184 million, if you look on page 19 you can see that; and you can see it building from the fourth quarter of 2012, 830 million -- or 830,000. So the first is production of units, and the second was balances.

Balances in the card business were up in the fourth quarter almost $3 billion, $2.5 billion to $3 billion. That we've got to be careful, because it's Christmas season; people spend and borrow and then they pay down.

So the point there is that has a little seasonal help to it. But if you look back in prior quarters you've seen a stability in our card balances, which as we continue to sell more units and people continue to use the card, we ought to expect a positive growth there.

But it's units at 1.2 million. Balances grew at $2.5 billion to $3 billion, and the balances are common in seasonality. Units have been above 1 million new production units each quarter for the last several quarters.

NANCY BUSH: Is there one particular card that's proving to be very popular? I see your ads for the cash-back cards, etc. Is that the card of choice at this point?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, that is our core card offering. We've simplified our offering to three or four core products, and that's the biggest one. And it's contributing to card income being up year-over-year by about 7%. Bruce, come in.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So that card is selling well. And the good news, as you can see, is 67% came through basically our web online sales process and our branch sales process in the core customer. So we continue to drive it.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Secondly, the 25% margin in Wealth Management, I think back to the old days when you had much fatter margins in that business. What do you see as a normalized margin in Wealth Management?

Number two, to what impact is the Wealth Management margin being maybe impacted by high liquidity levels that customers are maintaining? And do you see that changing?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's a couple things to that, Nancy. I think the first is that we've said that over the course of a couple years that we need that Wealth Management margin to get to 30%. I think you've got a couple things going on right now.

In the low rate environment, that business has an artificial drag because, as you know, you don't tend to pay out compensation, which is a significant portion of the expense, to those things that are net interest income related. So we would expect -- we also have in 2016 some deferred comp and other programs running off; so as we go through over the course of the next couple years, between the business growing, a normalization of rate environment, and some other things that that should be a 30% type pretax margin business.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, great. Thank you very much.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think we're through all the questions. So thank you very much for joining us and we'll look forward to speaking next quarter.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's program. Thanks for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150117eb1f001p6
  


 HD
 Q3  2014  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
15,033 words
   PD
15 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to today's program. (Operator Instructions). Please note this call is being recorded and I'll be standing by should you need any assistance. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Lee McEntire . Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
LEE MCENTIRE , IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Good morning. Thanks to everybody on the phone, as well as the webcast for joining us this morning for our third-quarter results. Hopefully you've had a chance to review the earnings release documents available on our website.

Before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce, let me just remind you we may make some forward-looking statements today. For further information on those, please refer to either our earnings release documents, our website or our other SEC filings. So with that, let me turn it over to Brian Moynihan , our CEO, for some opening comments before Bruce goes through the details.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN , CHAIRMAN & CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Thanks, Lee and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us to review our third-quarter results. As you know, our bottom-line results were heavily impacted by a previously announced settlement with the Department of Justice . But given that, I'm still encouraged by what we accomplished this quarter. Our business has generated enough earnings to absorb the $5.3 billion charge and still reported positive net income before preferred dividends.

Now the themes we see are consistent with the past several quarters. You can see in our numbers a prudent balance sheet management. You can see in the numbers good core expense control. You can see in the numbers continued credit improvement and you can see in the numbers solid business activity.

Before Bruce takes you through the details of the quarter, I thought I would focus quickly on the profitability of our business segments and some of the key statistics that give rise thereto. If you look, we've included in the appendix to the materials on page 18 and 20 some information about net income, PPNR and business statistics.

So when you step back and look at that, you can see from our release the Company reported $2.9 billion in year-to-date pre-tax net income. That includes and overcomes $15.6 billion in pre-tax litigation costs to resolve primarily legacy mortgage issues. Now we're not suggesting that we want to incur litigation costs going forward, but what this demonstrates is how much progress we've made behind the noise of the significant legal settlements.

So as you step back and think about the businesses, you can see on appendix slide 18 a graphic showing year-to-date net income compared to the performance by the businesses.

Let's first focus on our Consumer & Business Banking segment. Year-to-date net income was $5.3 billion in 2014. That compares to $4.6 billion after-tax in 2013. The return on average allocated capital in Consumer & Business Banking was 24%. It is our largest business and has had a good year. Our Global Wealth & Investment Management business had net income of year-to-date of $2.3 billion in 2014. That is up 3% from 2013. Now this business, our GWIM business, has a pre-tax margin of 26% and its returns on allocated capital are 25%.

As we move to our Global Banking business, that's the business that provides lending, treasury services and investment banking activities to middle market and large corporate clients around the world. That business earned $4 billion after-tax so far this year, up 8% from 2013 and generated returns on allocated capital of 17%. Those three businesses together have great annuity streams and hold us in good stead as we look forward.

Our Global Markets business, which obviously is more affected by what's going on in the market on a given quarter, has earned $2.9 billion after-tax this year and for the first nine months versus $2.7 billion in 2013 when you adjust for DVA and in 2013, you exclude the UK tax changes. So in total, these four businesses generated $14.5 billion net income after-tax for the first nine months of 2014. That $14.5 billion is up 10% from last year. You can look on slide 19 and you can see on a pre-tax pre-provision basis, which some of you also focus on, we are up 4% year-over-year and you can see on pages 20 and 21 the business statistics over the last couple years, which give rise to these results.

We made real progress in the four businesses and we continue to work on the Consumer Real Estate segment and the losses therein. But that real progress shows in the operating leverage and profitability of these businesses and we expect that momentum to continue as we move to the other side of the mortgage issues. With that, I'll turn it over to Bruce.

BRUCE THOMPSON , CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Thanks, Brian and good morning, everyone. This quarter does reflect what we believe is very solid execution and a lot of what we have been consistently talking with all of you about. We maintained a strong balance sheet as a foundation to operate from. We continued to rationalize our balance sheet for liquidity, profitability, as well as evolving regulatory changes. Our revenue has shown relative stability and our non-litigation expenses continue to be reduced. Charge-offs have continued to come down and we resolved significant legacy mortgage exposures during the quarter.

Let's start on slide 2 and go through the details. We recorded $168 million of earnings in the third quarter and after preferred dividends, that resulted in a loss of $0.01 per share. Earnings included the $5.3 billion pre-tax impact of the settlement with the Department of Justice and various state Attorneys General that we announced in August. On an EPS basis, the impact was $0.43 a share as a portion of this charge was not tax-deductible.

As you can see on the right-hand side of slide 2, the $5.3 billion impact was split between $4.9 billion in litigation expense and $400 million in provision expense that relate to additional reserves that are associated with the consumer relief portion of the settlement.

Revenue during the quarter on an FTE basis was $21.4 billion versus $21.7 billion in the year-ago quarter. If we exclude the DVA impact from both periods, as well as the $1.2 billion of equity investment income that we recorded during the third quarter of 2013 that was driven by gains from our CCB investment, adjusted revenue of $21.2 billion was up slightly from the third quarter of 2013.

On a segment view, revenue was stable to modestly up in four of our five businesses from last year with CRES being the exception. Relative to the second quarter of 2014, revenue was 3% lower driven by the lack of equity investment gains, seasonally lower investment banking fees and lower mortgage banking revenue. Total non-interest expense was $19.7 billion, which included $5.6 billion in total litigation expense. If we back out litigation expense compared to the second quarter of 2014, expenses declined roughly $400 million from both our New BAC and our LAS cost initiatives, as well as lower revenue-related incentives.

On the same basis, looking back to the third quarter of 2013, expenses improved by $1.1 billion, or 7%, which were driven by reduced LAS costs and to a lesser degree our New BAC cost savings. Provision for credit losses during the quarter was $636 million and included $400 million, as I mentioned, for the DOJ settlement while our net charge-offs were $1 billion. Our results during the quarter did benefit from roughly $200 million in DVA or about $0.01 per share as our debt spreads widened during the end of the quarter. There was also approximately $0.04 of benefit to earnings that relate to certain discrete tax items. Lastly, the quarter also benefited by about $0.01 as our weighted average share count excluded the impact of diluted shares given the financial performance.

On slide 3, we show you all the usual balance sheet highlights that we do each quarter, but we did want to focus you specifically on our efforts to rationalize the balance sheet as our actions led to a $47 billion decrease from the second quarter of 2014. We took prudent actions to increase liquidity, as well as to reduce both credit and market risk. We shifted the mix of some of our discretionary assets out of less liquid loans into more liquid debt securities. For example, we converted $6.5 billion of residential mortgage loans that benefited from standby insurance agreements into agency securities. We also sold $2.5 billion of non-performing and delinquent loans during the quarter and had $4 billion of net paydowns in our legacy Consumer Real Estate loans. We reduced our Global Markets balance sheet and associated funding by $11.7 billion from the second quarter of 2014 and that included low-margin prime brokerage loans of approximately $3.3 billion. Our decline in quarter-end deposits was primarily driven by optimization efforts that included the reduction of approximately $15 billion of deposits that had little to no benefit to our LCR ratio.

From a capital perspective, I'll remind you that we did issue $3.1 billion of preferred stock during the quarter that improved our Basel III Tier 1 regulatory capital ratio. And lastly, as a reminder, we increased our quarterly common dividend to $0.05 a share during the quarter.

We move to slide 4 where we show our capital ratios under Basel III. Under the transition rules, our CET1 ratio was stable at 12%. If we look at our Basel III regulatory capital ratios on a fully phased-in basis, you can see CET1 capital declined $1.6 billion. That was driven by a $1 billion decline in OCI. Our operational risk-weighted assets did increase that negatively impacted our advanced levels, but not the standard levels. Other RWA balance sheet improvement benefited both approaches and that partially offset the increase in RWA under the advanced approach.

If we look at the ratios under the standardized approach, CET1 improved slightly to 9.6% during the third quarter of 2014 and under the advanced approach, the CET1 ratio was also at 9.6%, both well above our 8.5% 2019 proposed minimum requirements. If you look at our operational risk-weighted assets under the advanced approach, they now represent approximately 30% of our overall risk-weighted assets.

If we move to supplementary leverage, this is the first quarter that we've actually disclosed the actual ratios from a supplementary leverage perspective. The bank holding company during the third quarter was at 5.5% and if we look at our primary banking subsidiary, BANA, its ratio was 6.8%, which is pro forma for September 30 as we merged FIA, our card services unit, into BANA on October 1. We are obviously very pleased with the capital and supplementary leverage ratios in the context of the resolution of the DOJ matter during the quarter.

If we turn to slide 5, we feel very good about the work that the funding team did during the quarter. In addition to the $3.1 billion preferred stock issuance, we issued $3 billion of Tier 2 subordinated debt, which also adds to our total capital metrics. Lastly, we issued $4.5 billion of straight debt at the parent. Our goal is not only to build the Basel III non-CET1 component of the capital stock that we thought were levels that were appropriate, but also to build liquidity in advance of the payments that we'll make during the month of October for the DOJ and state AG settlement.

Total long-term debt for the quarter ended at $250 billion, which was down $7 billion from the end of the second quarter of 2014. If we look at the cost of our debt, our long-term debt yields improved 10 basis points from the second quarter of 2014 due primarily to maturities of higher-yielding debt, as well as issuances at more favorable levels. Global excess liquidity sources remain very strong at $429 billion and our time to required funding was stable at 38 months.

If we turn to slide 6, net interest income on a reported FTE basis was $10.4 billion, up from the second quarter of 2014, as we had a less negative impact from market-related adjustments and that was coupled with modest improvements in our adjusted net interest income. The market-related adjustments during the quarter were a negative $55 million in the third quarter of 2014. That compares to a negative $175 million in the second quarter of 2014. Net interest income of $10.5 billion, excluding the market-related adjustment, improved modestly as lower long-term debt balances and yields, as well as an extra day of interest accruals, were partially offset by lower loan balances, as well as lower loan yields. The net interest yield improved 4 basis points on an adjusted basis and 7 basis points on an actual basis. We continue to remain positioned to benefit as interest rates move higher, particularly from the short end of the curve.

Since we're largely done at this point with our debt footprint reductions, the direction, as well as the trajectory of our net interest income and net interest yield, we will be more dependent on rate, as well as balance sheet movements going forward. And given the volatility of the rates, should the opportunity present itself, we could decide to take actions to reduce OCI risk in preparation for what we will be in an eventual rising rate environment. Those actions could have a relatively small near-term impact to net interest income, but reduce our duration risk, as well as to provide additional liquidity to reinvest in a higher rate environment.

Non-interest expense on slide 7 was $19.7 billion in the third quarter of 2014 and included $5.6 billion of litigation expense. As I previously mentioned, $4.9 million of the expense related to the DOJ settlement while the remainder was associated with a number of smaller pre-existing cases. One of which caused us to book approximately $200 million in our Global Markets business. If we exclude litigation, total expenses were $14.2 billion this quarter, which declined $400 million from the second quarter of 2014 on both our New BAC, as well as our LAS initiatives, as well as lower revenue-related incentive costs. Compared to the third quarter of 2013, expenses our $1.1 billion lower driven by LAS cost savings.

Our legacy assets and servicing costs, once again ex-litigation, reduced by approximately $100 million in the quarter and remain on track to hit $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2015. In the third quarter, we have now reached our New BAC savings initiatives with the targeted goal of $2 billion a quarter or $8 billion on an annualized basis. So as we move forward, we believe that expenses apart from litigation, as well as the continued reductions in legacy assets and servicing expenses, should move more directionally with the revenue streams that we see in the businesses.

Asset quality on slide 8, you can see credit quality continued to improve. Net charge-offs declined slightly from the second quarter of 2014 to $1 billion or a 46 basis point net loss ratio. A new decade low. NPL sales, which I mentioned, produced modest recovery in both the second quarter of 2014, as well as the third quarter of 2014 and if we normalize for those benefits, net charge-offs would have been $1.3 billion in the second quarter of 2014 and $1.2 billion in the third quarter of 2014 with the third quarter being about 8% lower. Delinquencies, a leading indicator of net charge-offs, remain very low. Our third-quarter provision expense was $636 million and we released $407 million of reserves given the continued pace of asset quality improvement. If we exclude the reserve that was associated with the DOJ settlement, we released $807 million from our reserves.

Let's now focus on the businesses starting on slide 9 with Consumer & Business Banking. Results again this quarter showed year-over-year improvement as our net income grew 4% to $1.9 billion and increased 3% from the second quarter of 2014. This business generated a 25% return on allocated capital during the third quarter. Revenue was relatively stable at $7.5 billion compared to the third quarter of 2013 and up from the second quarter of 2014 led by higher card income and service charges for both comparative periods.

As you can see on this slide, Q3 provision expense was lower than the third quarter of 2013 as net charge-offs improved and we also released less reserves. Expenses of $4 billion were stable compared to both periods as the benefits from our network delivery optimization were offset by investments that we made in our specialist salesforce.

With regard to the specialist salesforce, over the course of the last year, we've added nearly 500 financial solutions advisors and small business bankers. Growth in mobile, as well as other self-service customer touch points, has allowed us to continue to reduce our banking centers where we went below 5000 units during the quarter while at the same time our customer satisfaction scores continued to improve and customer activity continues to build.

If we look at customer activity during the quarter, we had good deposit growth and our rates paid remain very low. We experienced modest improvement in average loans on a linked-quarter basis driven by activity that we saw within the US consumer credit card business. Brokerage assets were up 21% year-over-year as we benefited from both improved account flows and market valuation.

Our mobile banking customers reached over 16 million during the quarter and 11% of all of our customer deposit transactions are now done through mobile devices. Card issuance remained strong at 1.2 million new accounts in the third quarter of 2014 with 64% of those cards going to existing customers of our Company. And lastly, credit quality continued to improve as our US credit card loss rate fell below 3% and where we continue to see north of a 9% risk-adjusted margin.

If we move to Consumer Real Estate Services, as I mentioned, the loss in the quarter was driven by the DOJ settlement, which impacted expense, provision, as well as income tax. Revenue was down about $300 million from the second quarter of 2014. The servicing income component of revenue was driven by an approximate $100 million charge to adjust our MSR for cost-of-service assumptions and a smaller amount as our level of servicing assets did decline. Our production revenue decline was driven by an approximate $80 million increase in rep and warrant expense.

First mortgage retail originations of $11.7 billion were up 6% from the second quarter of 2014. If we look at the pipeline at the end of the quarter, our first lien origination pipeline was down 12% from the second quarter of 2014. On the home equity front, we continue to see very good demand where originations during the quarter were $3.2 billion, which were up nicely on both a linked quarter and a year-over-year basis. Expenses once again included $5.3 billion of litigation costs during the quarter versus $3.8 billion in the second quarter of 2014. If we exclude that $1.5 billion increase in litigation costs, expenses declined $117 million. Our LAS expense for the quarter was just over $1.3 billion and once again remains on track to hit $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2015.

Our number of 60 plus days delinquent loans of 221,000 that are serviced by LAS dropped 42,000, or 16%, from the end of the second quarter of 2014. In addition, we continue to reduce our production staffing levels in line with the market opportunity as we continue to lower our fulfillment costs.

On slide 11, Global Wealth & Investment Management delivered another strong quarter where we saw both record revenues, as well as record earnings. Pre-tax margins remained strong, north of 25% for the seventh consecutive quarter. Record asset management fees drove revenue higher, but were offset by some softness in transactional activity. Although I do want to mention that we did see transactional activity pick up during the month of September.

Net income of $813 million was up 12% on a linked-quarter basis as the business continues to focus on operating leverage and drop the revenue growth to the bottom line. We increased the number of financial advisors and year-to-date the retention of our more experienced advisors remains at record levels. Client balances were nearly $2.5 trillion with negative market valuation mostly offset by positive flows that we saw during the quarter. Long-term AUM flows were $11.2 billion during the quarter, the 21st consecutive quarter of positive flows. Ending client loan balances also increased to a record level from the second quarter of 2014 as we see good activity in both securities-based and residential mortgage lending. And return on allocated capital in this segment was 27% during the quarter.

If you turn to slide 12, Global Banking, earnings were $1.4 billion, which is up 24% from the third quarter of 2013 on lower credit costs and to a lesser degree higher revenue. Compared to the second quarter of 2014, earnings were up on lower credit costs, which were slightly offset by seasonally lower investment banking fees. Return on allocated capital during the quarter was strong at 18%.

Within the revenue line item, investment banking fees for the Company this quarter were $1.4 billion, which is up 4% from the year-ago quarter, but down seasonally from the second quarter of 2014. Our overall investment banking pipeline does remain very strong, but I do want to note that our fourth quarter of 2013 was a record quarter from an investment banking fee perspective. Provision during the quarter was a slight benefit, which reflected continued low loss rates and a small reserve release.

If we look at the balance sheet, average loans were $267 billion, which is up 3% compared to the year-ago period, but which has slowed over the past couple quarters as we continue to focus on client profitability. We've also seen some significant prepayments from some of our larger corporate banking clients during the last couple quarters. Although our average deposits during the quarter did increase, our end-of-period balances declined and that's due, as I mentioned earlier, that we intentionally managed down certain deposits, which have little LCR benefit.

If we move to Global Markets on slide 13, we earned $769 million during the third quarter of 2014. To put the third quarter of 2014 on a like basis to the third quarter of 2013, you should exclude a $1.1 billion impact from the UK tax rate change that we saw in the third quarter of 2013, as well as the impact of DVA for both periods. Once again, DVA this quarter was a benefit of $205 million versus a detriment of $444 million last year. If we make those adjustments, we saw very strong growth in earnings of 21% on a year-over-year basis. Earnings are down from the second quarter of 2014 as a result of the typical seasonal declines in sales and trading, as well as higher litigation expense during the third quarter of 2014 within this segment.

If we back out DVA, revenues up 7% from the year-ago period driven by strong sales in trading results. We're pleased to report both FICC and equity sales and trading revenues were up versus the year-ago period. FICC revenues were up 11%. The improvement was driven by results in currencies given the increased volatility that we saw during the month of September, as well as improved performance in both our mortgages and our commodities areas. Equity sales and trading was up as well, up 6% from the third quarter of 2013 driven by higher client financing revenues.

On the expense front, they were up 2% year-over-year driven by higher revenue-related incentives. Relative to the second quarter, expenses were up $70 million from the second quarter due to higher litigation expense. If we backed out the $200 million litigation expense during the quarter, expenses declined by about $130 million in line with the lower revenue levels on a linked-quarter basis. Average trading-related assets were down about $13 billion from the second quarter of 2014 and our overall VAR remains very low. Return on allocated capital during the quarter was 9%.

On slide 14, we show All Other. Our non-interest revenue during the quarter was down on a year-over-year basis as we had $1.1 billion of equity investment gains in the third quarter of 2013 and during the third quarter of 2014, we had a $300 million charge for UK payment protection insurance. Expenses on a year-over-year basis are down about $400 million due to lower litigation expense in All Other, as well as lower personnel cost. Income tax expense is included within All Other as the benefits related to discrete items that I mentioned earlier are largely reflected in this segment. As we look at the fourth quarter of this year, we'd expect the tax rate to be roughly 31% absent any unusual items during the quarter.

So before we open it up for questions, I'd like to summarize the quarter. We feel we made once again very good progress during the quarter. We saw good business activity across the customer footprint. This led to year-over-year earnings improvements in four out of the five businesses. And in our mortgage business, we're taking costs out of the legacy assets and servicing side and have taken costs out of the fulfillment side as well. We generated enough earnings during the quarter from the businesses to offset a significant charge to settle our RMBS issues with the DOJ and RMBS working group and at the same time maintain a very strong capital position. Asset quality continued its trend of improvement and we did take some deliberate balance sheet actions to improve liquidity, manage OCI risk and reduce both credit and market risk. And we'll go ahead now and open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley .

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Hi, thanks very much. Good morning. So just wanted to touch on a couple of things that you mentioned during your prepared remarks here. One is on the NII actions that you were talking about you might take with the securities portfolio as a way to protect OCI. But it might have a hit on the top line when you do that. Could you just talk through what kind of size you're thinking about and what the triggers for that action might be?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. A couple things, Betsy. I think the first thing, if you look at the balance sheet from the second quarter to the third quarter and you look at the securities portfolio, you can see that virtually the entire increase in the securities portfolio related to treasury securities that tend to have a maturity in the four to five-year life perspective as opposed to longer-dated agency securities.

The second thing that I mentioned is just, and references what we would look to do with respect to our buy ticket during the fourth quarter and I think at this point we're being very cautious in looking at that buy ticket given the overall rate environment that we see that's 30 to 35 basis points lower than what we saw during the second quarter of 2014. And there's also a little bit of roll to spot risk that you have as we look out and I'd say if we aggregate those two items and put it in the context of NII risk for the quarter, those two items could be roughly $100 million of risk relative to what we saw during the third quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then obviously a question that a lot of people have is the current rate environment and what that impact is. So this is in addition to the typical negative impact on NII from the long end of the curve, I would assume, [coming down]?

BRUCE THOMPSON : The $100 million risk that I referenced is relative to the actual net interest income in the third quarter once we back out for market-related items.

BETSY GRASECK: Got it, got it. Okay. And then the other comment was on expenses where you indicated that you are obviously done with New BAC, which is fantastic and LAS is on track. So outside of the LAS expense reductions, more directionally expenses would move in line with revenue. Could you give us a sense as to what you think you could do on expenses in the event that the long end of the curve stays where it is right now, hovering at like [$2.01]?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. I think the biggest thing I'd point to, Betsy, is if you look at what we've done, if you look at the number of FTEs that we have, which tends to drive a lot of the expense, we're down 7% year-over-year and down 2% on a linked-quarter basis. And you see the flow-through of those benefits through a number of line items. I think one of the most important things to look at is if you go to our supplemental materials and flip to page 4, we show you nine different expense items and if you look at those line items and exclude the other category, which includes litigation expense, all eight line items are down both on a linked-quarter and a year-over-year basis. So as we continue to be efficient and continue to manage down overall headcount as a result of the various programs we've talked about, as well as just generally, you do continue to see grinddown expenses across all categories across the Company.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : And Betsy, just to put it in a broader perspective, I think how would you manage the Company if a low rate environment continues is a lot like we've been managing it now, continuing to be careful in every expense item, every headcount, but at the same time investing in the business. And so if you think over the last year, we've added small business bankers and financial service advisors, the people who work in the branches for Merrill Edge and the Merrill Lynch teams. We've added sales of mortgage loan officers in the retail segment while we reduce the overall numbers. And so we've been able to accomplish a reduction in expenses at the same time we're making the investments, $3.5 billion in technology last year, probably $3.3 billion or so this year. So we'll continue to make those investments. So that means that the New BAC left to implement helps offset any kind of inflationary growth you get and on top of that, we continue to work on initiatives to continue to simplify the Company and eliminate non-core products, etc. to continue to keep the expenses where they are.

BETSY GRASECK: So just to rephrase, you still have expense reduction coming through from the work that you've done so far; you're just not going to name it something new?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : No, we're just doing the daily work that we need to do and remember, we're offsetting all the inflation and healthcare costs and wages and everything that goes on in a normal day. But we've made the raw reduction we talked about; now it's just business as usual and go to work.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, super. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr , ISI.

GLENN SCHORR , ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hi, thanks very much. On slide 8 is this tiny uptick in consumer 30 day past due. It's a small number, but it's the first time I've seen it go up in a long time. Credit outlook is great. Just curious if that denotes like a bottoming and what you're seeing. And then in conjunction with that, how you feel about what appears to be a very large loan allowance as a percentage of charge-offs.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. No, we went back and noticed the same thing, Glenn. There were a few items that were 10s, 20s, and 30s that rounded, but as we go out and look and as we have freshened up and look forward, I would say that the forward look on credit as we look forward relative to when we looked at it last quarter, we do continue to see continued improvements, albeit at a slower pace from a charge-off perspective once you adjust for the non-performing loan sales.

GLENN SCHORR : That's good; that's comforting. You mentioned the $3 billion of sub debt that you issued during the quarter. Just curious if there's any thought process of is that getting ahead of OLA and do you feel that there's going to be a sub debt component? Is that just you being cautious and having some diversification in the debt structure?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think as we looked out and as you look to fill up the various non-CET1 buckets, you can see that we obviously had the Buffett Series T in May and we've issued about $4.6 billion to get where we're largely filled up on the preferred bucket and the sub debt issue of $3 billion was relative to approximately $5 billion to fill up that bucket from an overall capital perspective. And at this point, I would say from an OLA perspective we continue to read what you do. We feel like we've been very prudent in building up the significant debt stack at the parent and we'll just have to see where the regulation goes from here and we're obviously waiting to see exactly what that is.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay, last one. On mortgage, just curious what percentage of current originations you're keeping on balance sheet and then related part two would be how much is the unfinished question around repurchase risk constraining any mortgage lending or is it really still a function of demand at this point?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I'd say the first is, as it relates to the balance sheet, I believe it was roughly two-thirds of the production from a first lien perspective would have gone on the balance sheet during the quarter.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : In terms of just the origination quality, we continue to focus as we have for quite a long time here on originating high-quality prime mortgages while still fulfilling our duties to get customers credit for home purchases. The originations continue to rise. The purchase component obviously is rising too, so we feel good about where we are and you can see that the new purchase requests from the agencies and stuff have come down dramatically. So we're not going to change course at the end of the day because we feel good about the credit quality that we're taking on producing for ourselves and for investors.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay, thanks both.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell , Buckingham Research .

JIM MITCHELL , ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Hey, good morning. Two questions. First on governance, can you just kind of talk through the reasoning on the Board's perspective to kind of change the Chairmanship and with a lead director how you think that dynamic may change, good or bad? And I guess secondly is this a vote of confidence in you, Brian, in terms of the leadership and current strategy?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Well, I think we have a strong Board. It's a team with various people with various skills and backgrounds and that diversity really helps us. So I think the Board's decision, as we put out a few weeks ago when the announcement was made, this is continued great governance, continued commitment to good governance. Jack Bovender, the lead director, takes over from Chad Holliday, who served as Chair for about 4.5 years and did a great job for us and the Board is very committed to continuing to have the strong governance, especially in the heightened expectations from the regulators and the enhanced supervisor prudential standards from the Fed. And so we feel good about the governance, but it's a team effort in how the Board works together and I think your points that Chad made in the announcement are that the Board feels very good about the accomplishments of the management team and this is part of the progression in that regard.

JIM MITCHELL : And does the Fed take part in reviewing this decision in any way?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : It's the Board's decision, but we consult with the regulators on all our major decisions in the Company, but I think the key is to how we operate as a Board and how we govern the Company and I think it will be for the benefit of the shareholders as it has been.

JIM MITCHELL : Okay, great. And then second question on the balance sheet, with the $47 billion reduction, clearly it helps the LCR, but can you give us a sense on how it benefited -- I'm sorry, the SLR -- but can you give us a sense on how it might have improved your LCR, number one and if there's any additional benefits beyond leverage that helps the stress test?

BRUCE THOMPSON : A couple questions. The first thing is we focus on the deposits. I wouldn't say it benefited LCR, but what it enabled us to do was continue to rationalize the balance sheet without hurting LCR. That relates to the deposit optimization. With respect to the mortgage loans, the $6.5 billion that we reference where we converted mortgage loans into agency securities, that's basically taking $6.5 billion of non-LCR benefit asset and converting them to $6.5 billion of LCR benefit. So that would have been the one pickup of the activities that we mentioned, as well as just the reinvestment of repayment of legacy loan proceeds into securities once again helps LCR. So the actions with respect to bullet one under the key balance sheet benefited LCR. The $15 billion of deposits just enable us to rationalize the overall size of the balance sheet.

As it relates to CCAR and the actions that are taken, as we look to manage the Company, we continue to look to manage out the higher risk categories of loans. And if you look at what we did in the second quarter with just over $2 billion of non-performing loan sales and $2.5 billion this quarter, we would clearly expect that, as you look at those from a CCAR perspective, they would be higher loss content loans relative to the rest of the portfolio. But the rationale and the goal to move those out was to reduce the risk in a market environment that was very favorable and we feel good about those actions that we took.

JIM MITCHELL : So is it fair to assume that you guys are near or at the 100% LCR threshold? And I guess secondarily should we expect balance sheet growth to start -- loan deposit growth, balance sheet growth start to pick up from here or you still have more to do?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. So from an overall LCR perspective at the parent, we're at approximately 110% at the parent, so we're well in excess of where we need to ultimately be in 2017. Within the bank level, we're well above the 80% level and would look to drive that to be north of 100% during the first half of 2015, well in advance of the 2017 implementation. As we move forward and we look at the balance sheet, the goal as we go forward, and you saw a little bit, it's interesting, if you compare the loans in the three principal businesses where we make loans in the segments that we've laid out here and that would be in our Consumer business, in our Wealth Management business, as well as in our Global Banking business, that average loans within those segments are up about 2% on a year-over-year basis and we're clearly very focused on looking to drive out and push out and grow loans. We're obviously focused on growing deposits with our core customers, which will benefit LCR as well and I think as it relates to the overall size of the balance sheet, we want to continue to be more efficient, but I don't think you're going to see the magnitude of move in the balance sheet going forward that you saw during this quarter.

JIM MITCHELL : Okay, great. That's helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John McDonald , Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD , ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, Bruce. I wanted to follow up on the NII outlook and the potential strategic actions. Is the potential $100 million headwind on the core NII, does that reflect the possible strategic actions or is that just reflecting the fact that reinvestment rates for the maturing cash flows are lower today than they were in the second quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON : It would reflect two things, John. It's both the roll to spot risk, as well as the buy ticket during the fourth quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. And this buy ticket or these kind of actions that you might take, how might they impact your projections of rate sensitivity to rising short and long rates?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Well, to the extent that we don't reinvest and build up cash, it will increase our asset sensitivity and the benefit to rising rates when that occurs.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. So you're not talking about a major restructuring of the bond portfolio; it's just being patient in terms of investing? I think I might've misunderstood the actions.

BRUCE THOMPSON : This is much more, John, I think just realizing what we've seen during the quarter and being cautious on buy ticket during the fourth quarter to manage net interest income risk with OCI risk, but we're not talking about any kind of material shift. We're just flagging something for you given the magnitude of the rate move that we've seen so far this quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD : Got it. Okay, totally understood. Thank you. And Bruce, just in terms of the FAS 91 or the premium amortization charges that move around with the 10 year, is that pretty proportional to how the 10 year moves up and down or are there levels where it stops kind of being a straight-line impact?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I would say that the -- it tends to move -- the FAS 91 moves most and is most correlated to the 10 year and I would say that as you look at OCI risk, it tends to be more correlated to long-term mortgage rates.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. And just a follow-up on the provision, just wondering how we should think about the jumping off point for the provision relative to the $600 million reported or the $200 million ex-DOJ this quarter? How should we think about where to start off with that?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think, John, I would look at the charge-offs adjusted for the portfolio sales that we said came down from $1.3 billion to $1.2 billion and assuming the overall economic environment doesn't change, we have continued to see improvements in the credit portfolios. And I think practically speaking, if you look at the reserve release during the quarter, once you adjust for the DOJ amount of $400 million, that you're not going to see reserve releases. I think clearly they will be a fair bit below the $800 million that we would have seen this quarter on an adjusted basis.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. That's helpful. And then just on capital builds, Bruce, it seems like you're still able to grow the Tier 1 common at a multiple of the GAAP earnings. Is that primarily as DTA, and could you remind us what the status of the DTA balance is and how much is disallowed currently?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. The disallowed amount continues to be in the $15 billion to $16 billion type area. And as we look out between now and the end of 2015, we would expect that the CET1 should build generally consistent with pre-tax earnings all the way through the end of 2015.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, good morning. Were there any gains in the $2.5 billion of NPA sales?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I believe between what came through in the charge-off line and the net, I think the NPAs were roughly $150 million, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: $150 million gain?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Correct.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. As far as the outlook for rates, have you changed your rate assumption for the next year, given what the 10-year has done?

BRUCE THOMPSON : As we look at rate assumptions, what we do is when we go through our internal forecasting process, we snap and manage the business just based on the forward curve of what the market is telling us. And clearly, I think if we look out at and look at the rate movement that we've seen over the course of the last couple weeks, people are obviously more cautious that rates may not be moving up at the level that they had had, but it's clearly been very volatile over the last 30 days.

MIKE MAYO: And is that changing the way you're managing the portfolio or the Company? In other words, at what point do you look at the low rate environment and say our prior assumptions might have been off a little bit; we need to revise the approach?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Well, I think that as we look forward, Mike, I think it's a little bit of why we said what we did about a little bit of caution during the fourth quarter; that at this point as we look out and given the impact that OCI has to capital, until we see where rates settle out as they continue to move around, we continue to be very cautious with the buy ticket. And when we do it, we're investing clearly a little bit shorter than longer at this point, given the risk that OCI has to capital and being mindful of that.

MIKE MAYO: Sure. No, it's tough figuring out the rate environment right now. I'm just revisiting the comment you made. You said expenses should move more directionally with revenues. And if I look at the first nine months, I guess revenues are down but expenses are down more. Do you mean that instead of having positive operating leverage, it might be flat operating leverage looking ahead?

BRUCE THOMPSON : No, I think it's a couple things, Mike. The first is that I want to make sure that we emphasize is that we still have a couple hundred million dollars of expenses to get out in the LAS area between now and the first quarter of 2015. And clearly, $1.1 billion of LAS expenses that we've set to get to in the first quarter of 2015 is not where we would expect to operate on a longer-term basis. And there's additional work that we need to do there.

The second area, just broadly speaking, that we highlighted is that clearly we'd expect, given what litigation has been, that that over time is going to come down. And then the third thing -- and when I said directionally expenses moving with revenues is just if we look at some of the areas, particularly within the wealth management area that we've seen, that there is a component of compensation and incentives that's very clearly tied to revenues, not unlike what you see within the Global Banking and the Global Markets space.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, and then two questions for Brian or perhaps it's for you, Bruce. I know I asked this before, but if rates do not go higher in 2015, what is Bank of America 's ROE target?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think if rates don't go higher, what you see in terms of earnings is what we've got to drive through this quarter. So, Mike, when you look at the charts Bruce showed you and I showed you, you can see that the core businesses have earned several billion dollars after-tax this quarter, and the CRES business took it away. And as that comes down, you'll see those earnings flow through. So you can compute the ROE based on that.

But basically we're earning -- you can see on page 18 the net income levels across the businesses each quarter. And our job is to take the commercial real estate business which is -- you see it for the year to date -- take the commercial real estate business which has lost money and get that back to breakeven. And that's the work we'll do. In absence of rate rising, it's not a lot different than it is right now.

MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, just following up on the other question relating to the separation of the CEO and the Chairman role, when you consult with regulators, do they care one way or another if the CEO and Chair position is split? There are several corporate governance experts who say it's better to have those two roles split and others say it doesn't matter. Do you know what the regulator view is on that because you're going from what some consider a preferred corporate governance approach, splitting the CEO and Chair role, to now combining them?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think what they've been clear about in the published documents by the OCC and their heightened standards, their enhanced standards and recently in the Fed , they care about the engagement of the Board and the diversity of the Board and the experience of the Board and we have a good Board and it's experienced and has all the diversity and credible challenge and all the words that are used to describe that. And that's the core of the governance point that they make.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor , Deutsche Bank .

MATT O'CONNOR , ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Good morning. If I could just follow up on some of the capital commentary you provided, especially in the deck here. It seems like there's a number of adjustments that were made this quarter and then just right after the quarter, you consolidated the bank subs. There's some increase in operational risk RWA. You commented on OCI, managing to that. Just as we think big picture on managing capital, what's left and is there opportunity to bring down some of the off-balance sheet exposures now that you have more final rules on the SLR?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. I think I would start and just reiterate as we look at capital on a go-forward basis, you basically have three items that are going to affect things. The first is your level of profitability and I just want to reiterate that we would expect once again on a go-forward basis to accrete capital on a pre-tax basis. And the second is the impact that OCI has to those capital ratios. We obviously saw during the quarter rates went up on the mortgage side. I believe it was about 5 basis points during the quarter and there were some security gains as well. That was what led to the change in overall OCI and as I said before, given the environment we're in where rates are down about 30 basis point so far quarter-to-date, that would have a benefit today to capital and we're just mindful of reinvesting so that we don't take on any greater OCI risk on a go-forward basis.

As it relates to what we're looking through and as you look at the overall risk-weighted asset work that's been done, I would say that clearly as we continue to work through the legacy home equity, as well as the first mortgage portfolios that do not benefit from a standby agreement, as we continue to work those assets down, that should enable us to grow the core and still keep risk-weighted assets generally constant. And I think more specific to your point, the other two things are that we continue to look to work through and we have the runoff of some of the structured credit and other portfolios that we're trying to accelerate that come off between now and 2017.

Then the last piece that we continue to work hard on and you saw it in the op risk, that is we updated the models for the time series. You do have the increase to risk-weighted assets and we're working hard to get to where we need to be from that model perspective as we would hope in 2015 if we're successful to go ahead and exit parallel run at that point.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. And then as you think about -- I guess the adjustment on the operational risk RWA side, do you think that's about done or is it an ongoing process until you hopefully exit the parallel run?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think it's -- obviously as others have noted, it's an ongoing process. I think the important thing is if you compare our operational risk number relative to our peers, we're at roughly 30% and if you do the math against the risk-weighted assets, we're at the if not the top the upper end of where others are from that, but we obviously have work to do to get that finalized to be in a position to exit.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. And then just separately within the C&I lending book, you talked about pricing pressure, as well as some paydowns, but I guess specifically on the pricing pressure, what are you seeing now versus a quarter or two ago when you were still trying to grow or growing the book in terms of not just the magnitude of pricing, but what types of products?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. I would say that the most competitive area that we continue to see is within the commercial banking space of our Global Banking segment, which are those middle-market type companies that tend to be loans that have one or two banks provide all of the credit and clearly the remaining services that go along with servicing those customers tends to go to those that provide the credit. And that's where you've seen the most competition.

I think it is interesting, if you look at and go back to our table on the international side as we've continued to shape the balance sheet and look for return, you've actually seen a step up in the yield in our international lending activity. And within the large corporate space of our Global Banking space, we have seen some stability in yields within that. So I'd really focus -- most importantly it's within the commercial -- the middle-market commercial space where we're seeing the most pressure on yields.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : So just to add a little color there. Our view was along two dimensions. One, on the international side, we had strong loan growth a couple years ago into last year and now we have to materialize our structured management and other revenue streams under increasing our credit exposure and Tom and the team growing the business. So there was a growth of loans that then has to be a follow-through of growth of transactional revenue, etc.

And on the middle-market, I think the team went for optimization and we are going to continue to stress that they need to be able to manage both the optimization and the growth of the portfolio. So we're pushing on them to get the balance probably back a little bit more in skew than they had in the last couple quarters.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay, all right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Autonomous Research.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Good morning, this is Guy. A question on, first of all, the optimization that you talked about with respect to commercial deposits around $15 billion and the, I think, roughly $12 billion in securities financing transactions. Should we look at those two things as directly related to each other?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think they're related to each other, that we think it's prudent balance sheet management, but they're independent actions that are part of prudent balance sheet management.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : So Guy, I'd say thematically, but not necessarily directly.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, so the $15 billion isn't all essentially prime brokerage-related as well like the asset reduction that you are talking about?

BRUCE THOMPSON : No, it's not.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, that's helpful. Another question is with respect to the provision related to the DOJ settlement. Should we look at this $400 million, which, as you said, offset what would have been an $800 million reserve release, should we look at that as essentially now a one-time true-up and going forward, you now feel that you have the provision that you'll need for multiple years to fulfill the settlement terms or is the settlement going to essentially be a pay-as-you-go thing through the provision?

BRUCE THOMPSON : So to be clear, when we set up the $5 billion reserve or the $5.3 billion hit this quarter, that was to cover cash payments, as well as all expected costs associated with implementing our $7 billion of consumer relief. And the part of it that flows into the provision line item that's $400 million, that is a reserve to take care of the what would have been the P&L impact from the modifications that would happen within the different loans that we're modifying. So on a go-forward basis, assuming that we've got this set up the way that we do, there should not be any future P&L impact from DOJ. The only impact there will be on the balance sheet is you see the reserve number come down as we implement the consumer relief programs.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. That's a very helpful explanation. Thanks. And finally, cyber security issues. Obviously you were not the bank that's been in the crosshairs here and yet I would imagine that this is something that has caused some consternation internally and some spending. JPMorgan has talked about a $250 million budget for cyber security issues, which is expected to double. Can you give us a sense for what you're spending there and how you would expect it to increase?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Obviously this is a matter that we take very seriously from the Board engagement, the talents that we have on the Board to help us with this all the way through management. Cathy Bessant and her team in tech and ops and we spend hundreds of million dollars on it a year and it's been growing and we expect it to continue to grow. It's the key to keep our customers and our teammates secure and we continue to work on it. So this is nothing but hard work and we continue to work with both the law enforcement authorities, the various government agencies and among our industry through the various trade groups and formal engagements to try to drive our competencies in industry up. So we're spending a lot of money on it, several hundreds of millions of dollars and we expect that to continue to increase.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Thanks. I actually do have one more if that's all right and it's with respect to the rep and warranty RPL, which in the footnote you say it's the same as it was last quarter at about $4 billion. Can you update us on where you are with any lawsuits related to the non-Countrywide originations, which add up to around $420 billion of UPB?

BRUCE THOMPSON : So if you recall, Guy, what we've done and what we continue to refine each quarter is that as we continue to see rep and warrant claims, there was a reserve set up back in the second quarter of 2011. A piece of it was for Gibbs & Bruns. There was a piece of it that was for bank-issued rep and warrant and then there was a piece that was for third party and we obviously look at those reserves each quarter and adjust those reserves for the activity. In those cases where we have enough activity to have a reserve, we obviously have those and to those areas that are still uncertain, we provide the range of possible loss. As you referenced, the range of possible loss with respect to rep and warrant activity continues to be up to $4 billion.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. So no movement there obviously this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON : That's correct.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS .

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS : Yes, good morning, guys. A quick one on loan growth. So at first glance, it looked kind of weak. It seemed to be driven by Consumer. I just want to make sure I've got the right adjustments here that I think you guys have laid out. In mortgage, $12.5 billion decline sequentially, but should we be backing out the $2.5 billion of NPL sales and then the $6.5 billion of agency conversion from that decline so you know you get kind of like a normalized decline rate sequentially of more like $3.5 billion on the mortgage side?

BRUCE THOMPSON : It's a good question. So the decision to move the $6.5 billion from loan to security form was based on LCR. It doesn't change the fact that when you move that that you still have the asset on the balance sheet. So I think that $6.5 billion is a fair adjustment to make and I would agree that the $2.5 billion where we sold the non-performing loans and quite frankly there's not much left there to attack is a fair adjustment, which gets you to the $9 billion.

The other thing when you look at those loans that I do think is important is that, on the home equity side, with those legacy home equity portfolios, which we want to get repaid, that repayments within those were roughly $3.5 billion, which were greater than the funded amount that came on from a new home equity origination perspective. So I come back to that, within those more discretionary portfolios, what's happening there is what we want to happen there, that they're repaying and we're converting them to more liquid instruments. And I think as we look at actual business activity and how we're doing, we'd focus you back within the segments and as we talked about within the Consumer business where average loans were up a little bit linked quarter on a card basis where we saw very strong continued growth within the home equity space, go back to the Wealth Management area where loans reached a record level and then I think we've already addressed the work that we need to do on the commercial front.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Sure, sure. And maybe if you could, is it possible to give us an idea about the runoff portfolio, what's left in that at this stage and what your guys' expectations are for like a runoff headwind just so we can think about it for modeling purposes?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. I think I would look at, as you go forward given that we're not buying whole loans from third parties, that you're probably looking at a high single digit continued reduction for the next couple quarters with respect to whole loans that we hold for others. The second thing I'd say that you have is you've got roughly $3 billion a quarter in home equity payoffs, a portion of which will be mitigated by new originations, but you are looking at roughly $3 billion there. And then you have some other less than $1 billion type items, but I think it's fair to say that, as you go forward, outside of what we think is core, you're probably looking at in the Consumer businesses in the ZIP Code of $10 billion to $12 billion that will go away. We will either have the ability to reinvest and make new loans or otherwise reinvest.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. And that's on a quarterly headwind basis?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Correct.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, terrific. And then thinking about Wealth Management, could you break down the expansion in the margins there this quarter? How much of it came from reduced spending? I know you guys have been investing there and so maybe could you help us understand how much of a contributing factor that was here this quarter and how much investment is left to wind down here?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I'm sorry, when you referenced margin, margin in what area?

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Sorry, Wealth Management pre-tax.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, if you look at it and you go through the different areas, you tend to have 40% type payouts with respect to the revenue piece. So when you look at the margin improvement of a couple hundred basis points, I would put it more in the context of just good core expense management. I do think there was a little bit less litigation within the quarter that benefited us, but it tends to be just across the board, whether it be a little bit lower support cost, a little bit lower licensing fee number, a little bit less litigation. There was no one number that was particularly dominant in driving the margin.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : And last quarter, we had some startup costs for the Merrill One product that you can see has had strong success in terms of AUM. So that was sort of in the second-quarter technology expense and stuff to roll that out, but it comes back off [too].

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Yes, so that technology spend also rolled off too, which probably helped, right?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Yes, exactly. If we remember last quarter when we talked about it, they had a decline. It was because some of the stuff was going in and this quarter, you saw it revert back to more where they had pretty consistently been over the last many quarters.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Cool, cool. All right, I seem to remember that being somewhere in the ballpark of like $50 million to $100 million, is that right?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think it was a little -- it was all in that much, but whether it was all in that one quarter or not, I don't remember.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, so a decline from that might be less so?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Yes.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Cool. And then last one, I know you guys had talked about here the repositioning that you guys want to take as far as AOCI risk and such. When we think about the AOCI hit that you guys lay out versus other money centers and the interest rate shock, it's a little bit higher than where some of the other folks are. So hoping to maybe get a little bit of color on where the current duration is, where you expect the duration to go based upon the actions that you take and then maybe help us also square the circle of understanding, the larger AOCI hit and whether that's a result of a barbelling with the portfolio or what.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. The first thing, I just want to clear up that there's, in the quarter, the only comment with respect to the quarter that we're referencing is just some caution on the buy ticket given where interest rates are at this point during the quarter. I think if you go back and you look at over the last couple quarters, it's been a very consistent message in that we've said we're going to direct more of the buy ticket to shorter-dated treasuries and you can see that there's been a buildup of those treasuries over the course of the last three to four quarters. So this quarter was a continuation of that and we were just calling out a note of caution given the rate environment.

I think as it relates to overall OCI sensitivity, if you look at what we've typically said is, in a 100 basis point parallel move up in rates, how long does it take back or take to earn back that OCI. Said consistently, it has been around three years. It peaked at about 3.5 years and at the end of September, it would have been less than three years. So we have on a consistent trend line continued to look to move down the overall OCI risk as it presents itself to capital.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. So is it right then to assume the duration on the AFS portfolio is a little under three years or is that not a correct inference?

BRUCE THOMPSON : No, that's the period of time that it takes to earn it back. You're looking at the overall -- I think the overall duration it is going to be in the five plus years.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Hi, thanks. Just a question just on the trading business. Obviously you guys and the other companies did well amidst the volatility in September and I'm just wondering with regard to the balance sheet changes you guys have been making and the optimization of RWAs and given what's happening in the environment right now, any changes in terms of how Tom's running that business as far as being able to capture the revenue opportunity out there or any inhibition given by your views around risk-taking and these capital balance sheet changes that you guys have talked about today?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I'd refer you to page 21 in the appendix in the lower left-hand corner and you can see this is the third quarter of 2012, 2013 and 2014 laid out side-by-side. And so I don't think this is a change in position if you look at it. The average trading-related assets of 460 to 440, the VAR is $55 million and $56 million, $50 million and you can see the revenues. What Tom and the team have done a good job is building a relatively stable -- this business is going to fluctuate in the market, but a relatively stable core amount of activity comes through this. And if you look at it over several quarters with the exception of seasonality in the first quarter that typically occurs each year, but we laid this out for you. The second quarter of 2012, 2013, 2014 last quarter, the third quarter, you see it's a relatively consistent $3 billion revenue type of number and we've maintained that.

So the adjustments we've made in the business on expenses, the scope of activities and stuff we actually made in 2010 and 2011 to bring the business in line, so we're very comfortable with where they are now. They are always moving around and paring risk and continuing to manage carefully the overall returns of the business. It's relative size to our Company. We think we've gotten a good place; we've simplified it. And so there's no change in strategy here and in fact, you can see there's a fairly consistent result from that activity. What's different this quarter versus last quarter obviously without the UK tax thing, you're seeing the bottom line come through to the third quarter, but we made $700 million odd after-tax and that's good performance.

KEN USDIN: Thanks, Brian. And to follow just on the mortgage business, the servicing line has continued to just trickle out. I'm just wondering have we seen the bottoming of the former sales and the related revenues moving away from that.

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think if you look at the servicing revenue, as I said, the biggest reason for the decline was the adjustment in the cost to serve. If you saw the actual servicing fee line that came through linked quarter, it was only down about $25 million on a linked-quarter basis. So what you're going to see on a go-forward basis is not so much the impact on the sale of MSRs, but just the servicing revenue that's derived based on the size of the MSR asset. So given that there aren't any more large-scale sales of that MSR, you're going to see that more vary on a core basis as opposed to a step function.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : And the big advantage you'll see is that the number of 60 plus delinquents continues to normalize now and we have to continue to push that. That's where we think that we get the additional expense leverage in LAS going forward. And so it's $100 million this quarter and a couple hundred million dollars quarter four. It's just grinding through and working those loans for the customers and modifying or short-selling and going through foreclosure. So that number is still elevated as a percentage. You can see it. And if you look at our delinquency off of the things we produce really since after the crisis, the numbers are much smaller and imply a delinquency level ultimately of half that amount that you see now. So that's where the real work will come in unit reduction. The overall 3.9 million units was fluctuating around a little bit, but we're kind of getting to equilibrium where our production is nearly what runs off absent sales in the 60 plus bucket.

KEN USDIN: And my last follow-up just on that point, you had talked about $1.1 billion by 1Q 2015. You had previously talked about getting it down to about $500 million a year out from that. Is that still a reasonable expectation given that backdrop you just laid out?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think the first thing that we're focused on is getting it down to $1.1 billion and then longer term I think if you look at any metric with where we would see from a number of loans serviced, as well as the number of delinquent loans in the portfolio, we still have some significant work to do to drive that $1.1 billion down because given the size of the portfolio, it's way too high.

KEN USDIN: Okay, thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, I just wanted to follow up on that. You talk about 60 day delinquent loans down 42,000 to 221,000. I don't think there's any sales of that. Is that just working through the portfolio and that seems like a very high pace? Can we expect that type of pace or what type of pace of loans do you think you can work out on a quarterly or annualized basis?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, there were some servicing transfers during the quarter. My recollection is it was between 20,000 and 25,000 units that were actually transferred during the quarter. So it was a very good quarter for us as far as MSR sales and driving that number down. But I think you're right that, on a go-forward basis, it's not going to be at that level. Although we do think we will make some significant progress between now and the end of 2015.

PAUL MILLER: Outside of the servicing trends, it was 20,000 to 25,000, so it was down roughly about 15,000 give or take, give or take 1,000 loans. Is that a pace that we could model going forward?

BRUCE THOMPSON : There are obviously a lot of factors that can go into that that are going to have it [bump] around, but I don't think -- if you believe that with what we're seeing from the quality of the portfolio and you believe the foreclosure process continues along the same trend, you're probably looking at plus/minus 20,000 units a quarter on an organic basis, on a net basis.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. And then relative to the big Department of Justice settlement, where do you think you are on legal costs? I know it's hard to sit there and say, but we've seen a couple other competitors get the Department of Justice behind them, but there still tends to be this nagging $1 billion here and there in legal costs that just won't go away. Where do you think we are -- is Bank of America , since they've paid probably the most out than anybody, are you more through that than most other people?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Well, some of that stuff that people experience are pieces that we have already taken care of in prior quarters and some of it relates to completely different -- as it relates to mortgage matters, some relates to other matters. We will always have litigation expense in this Company, but in terms of the mortgage, we've talked to you in many quarters, but if you think just the last three quarters, three major pieces fell behind it and we're still waiting for the ultimate approval of the Gibbs & Bruns settlement. 95% of the RMBS by principal amount, we had settlements and settlements at this point are awaiting final approval. So a lot of the pieces we had settled up, FHA and things like that, along the way. So we've got -- in the monolines, four out of the five are settled, so we've been picking away at them. So without knowing all the ins and outs of the other competitors, from our standpoint, a lot of the smaller stuff was getting done as a lot of you focused on the larger things. A lot of the smaller stuff was coming in and out every quarter underneath that and we should see less of that going forward.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, hey, guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Matthew Burnell, Wells Fargo .

MATTHEW BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES : Hi, Brian. Thanks for taking my question. I guess just a question in terms of the investment banking product rankings on page 32. Obviously most of the numbers are in the top three, particularly in the more important category. I guess just looking at the global rankings in terms of some of the numbers that aren't in the top three, are there further investments you all plan to make in that business that would have any effect on the operating expense ratios in Global Banking or is that pretty much steady-state in terms of the investments you all are putting into those businesses?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think as a broad construct and I think you're asking more the strategic level, Christian Meissner and the team with Tom have done a good job of adding people in the markets where we needed to build our capabilities and while we're always looking to add more and more talent and more and more capabilities, I don't think there is any huge change in expenses or numbers. It's more of continuously upgrading our talent and adding incremental talent. But in the grand scheme of things, it's a pretty small expense base in the context of our Company with the level of expenses.

But you're point is exactly right. The global -- the US competitive franchise is obviously demonstrably stronger as you can see in the US rankings versus the global. The global has picked up honestly and as activity picked up in Europe and in Asia, we continue to drive forward. But we still are working hard to improve our positioning and across the board, but we've made a lot of the investments already.

MATTHEW BURNELL: And then if I could just ask a follow-up on the non-US commercial loans, a couple of competitors have mentioned that there's been some weakness in trade finance lending. And I'm just curious how much, if any, that has affected the loan growth within the non-US commercial side of the balance sheet?

BRUCE THOMPSON : It has. It's affected it in two ways. So when you look at the declines that we saw within the loans outside of the US, a chunk of that decline was a decline in trade finance, but I think what's also notable is that trade finance tends to have the lowest spreads. So when you look at the yields within the international loan portfolio, they're up and that's because you've got more corporate type loans that have higher spreads than trade finance, which tends to have lower spreads.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Thanks very much, Bruce.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski , Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI , ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Mine were asked and answered. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT : Hi, good morning. Bruce, first question regards capital and profitability targets. I know at a recent investor conference you alluded to the fact that you believe that CCAR currently represents the binding capital constrained for the bank, which just presumably you'll need to manage to a higher core Tier 1, which I guess from my perspective could put at risk the 14% ROE T goal that you guys had established in the early part of this year and I suppose it's really a two-parter. First, what core Tier 1 target do you believe you'll need to manage over the cycle and then as a follow-up to that, how does that inform your outlook for meeting that goal?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Well, a couple things. I go back to the first comment, which is that you have to break out a little bit what's going to happen for our Company over the next five quarters between the growth in tangible common equity versus the growth in regulatory capital that flows into the capital ratio because, as I said before, over the next five quarters, we will accrete capital on a pre-tax basis absent any other changes. That's the first thing I'd keep in mind.

The second thing is that as we look out, we do believe at this point that CCAR is the governor and we're obviously getting ready to go into the 2015 CCAR process and without instructions or assumptions or scenarios, I think it's premature to look at that.

The third thing is, as you look at return targets, and Mike touched on this a little bit in his earlier question, I think the thing that, as we look to getting to those 12%, 14% type targets, the thing I would encourage you to do because I do think that you start to get a bridge to that is if you take the earnings that we announced today and normalize them for the things that I touched on in my comments, you tend to be starting at a point that's in the 10% plus type return during the quarter from a tangible common equity perspective. And you've got really four things that are going to change that on a go-forward basis -- the continued reduction within our LAS expenses. We would expect obviously longer-term litigation expenses to go down. You have the benefit of rates and then you've got what we do within the core businesses.

So those are the four things that we're focused on and the last point I would say as it relates to just CCAR, we feel like getting ready for CCAR during this quarter and quite frankly throughout the year that we've made a lot of work between moving out of the Company those assets that tend to have high loss content in stress. We've augmented our CET1 ratios as we've gone forward and we think we've taken a lot of tail risk out.

So long-winded way of saying you can look at the bridge to more normalized returns. When you adjust what we saw this quarter, we feel very good about the progress that we've made as we prepare for CCAR. We'll look to see what the instructions are and we'll have to see if our assumption about that being the governor given the evolving regulatory landscape continues to be the case or if we need to update that assessment.

STEVEN CHUBAK: All right. Thanks for that, Bruce. That's really helpful. And then just switching gears to the liquidity side of the equation, one measure which hasn't garnered very much attention is the net stable funding ratio. And my understanding is that Basel's at least intended goal was to have the NSFR calibration completed by the end of this year. And I was hoping you could disclose where you currently stand on this metric.

BRUCE THOMPSON : So we do not have an exact number to disclose at this point. What I would say is we have worked through and we've done the work to get to where we need to be from an LCR perspective, that at this point there's not anything that gives us any concern that we're going to have to change in any material way what we're doing to satisfy NSFR.

STEVEN CHUBAK: All right, thanks. And maybe just one more quick modeling question. I was hoping you could clarify given all the preferred issuance that's been done, assuming nothing incremental is completed going forward in terms of issuance, what the preferred coupon should be on an annualized basis next year.

BRUCE THOMPSON : I've got an exact number for you. Bear with me one second. You should see during next year a preferred number of 1262.

STEVEN CHUBAK: All right, perfect. That's it for me. Thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: And there are no further questions at this time.

LEE MCENTIRE : Thank you, everyone. Look forward to seeing you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference. You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141017eaaf000rt
  


 HD
 Q2  2014  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
16,705 words
   PD
16 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's program. (Operator Instructions) Please note, today's call is being recorded; and I will be standing by should you need any assistance.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Lee McEntire . Please go ahead, sir.

LEE MCENTIRE , SVP IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Good morning. Thanks, everybody on the phone as well as the webcast for joining us this morning for our second-quarter results.

Before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce, let me just remind you we may make some forward-looking statements today. For further information on those, please refer to either our earnings release documents, our website, or the other SEC filings.

So with that, I will turn it over to Brian Moynihan , our CEO, for some opening comments before he goes to Bruce.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN , CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Thanks, Lee. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us.

As you look at our results, you can see the storyline for this quarter is much the same as it was for last quarter. You can see that the revenue is showing stability in most of the core businesses; you can see the good core expense control, continued credit improvement, and solid business activity throughout the franchise.

You can also see, obviously, that the litigation expense from our legacy mortgage issues continue to affect our earnings this quarter. And you can also see that we have continued to build our strong balance sheet position and capital and liquidity.

In a minute Bruce will take you through the details and results, but I thought it would be good if we spent a couple minutes at the outset here talking about what our customer and client data is telling us about the economy and what we see in our franchise.

As we all know, the economy is off to a little bit of a slow start this year, but growth has picked up recently. The most recent jobs data shows nearly 1.4 million jobs were created in the first half of this year.

As we have strong positions, leadership positions, across consumer and commercial companies in America, we have a view into the key indicators of an improving economy which shows signs everywhere of improvement. Even in advance of the short-term interest rates changing, which would help our deposit-rich Consumer & Business Banking segment, our Consumer business had another good quarter. It performed well, growing earnings 29% from last year, including solid origination activities across the various products.

In addition, as we look at our underlying consumers, they have increased their spending. We can see in our data that the retail volumes on debit and credit cards were up 4% from last year's second quarter, but more importantly up 8% from the first quarter this year, showing increased momentum in spending among our card customers.

Consumers are growing card balances also; they are borrowing a little bit more. And they continue to add to their deposit balances.

As you know, home sales continue to improve across the industry, and we can see that in our own results as our originations and mortgages increased from first to second quarter. But importantly, our purchased mortgage origination continue to grow. Our home equity originations also were up almost 30% for the quarter.

When we look at the underlying transactional activity and volume activity in our stores, 7 million to 8 million visitors come in each week, showing continued strong activity. We could also see that in our online activity, where the 30 million online customers continue to grow their overall volumes, and importantly in our mobile activity, where our 15.5 million mobile customers continue to increase the use of technology, including depositing 10% of all the retail checks in our Company through their mobile phone and other devices.

The health of the consumer is also evident in our asset quality. Delinquencies continue to improve. Our consumer card loss rate ended the quarter at less than 3%.

We see on the Wealth Management side the markets growth has added to consumer wealth. We have nearly $2.5 trillion in client balances in our Global Wealth & Investment Management business, including $100 billion in the brokerage assets with our retail and preferred customer base in our Consumer business.

We also see encouraging signs throughout our Commercial customers. Commercial construction has improved, and manufacturing activity in our clients has accelerated.

The borrowing of our commercial customers remains healthy across the industry, and credit quality is very strong. Encouraging is that middle-market utilization rates are moving forward again this quarter, ever so slightly.

Industry sales and trading activity among our trading counterparties has been low, as many of our peers have talked about in this low volatility environment. However, our underlying business performed well. Tom Montag and his team, head of our Global Markets business, posted $1.1 billion in earnings for the quarter.

Our Investment Banking pipeline remains strong and the back half of 2014 looks healthy.

While the economy still faces challenges, progress is being made throughout the economy but also throughout our Company. We are seeing good business activity and its strengthening as we go throughout 2014. We are seeing improved financial health for our consumers and our customers and our corporate customers.

But the most important thing to think about is the signs of a gradually improving economy. This is how our business has continued to be positioned to take advantage of the activity and deliver for you, our shareholders.

With that, I will turn it over to Bruce.

BRUCE THOMPSON , CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Great. Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. Let's start on slide 2 and work through the second-quarter results.

We reported earnings of $2.3 billion or $0.19 per diluted share this quarter, which included pretax litigation expense of $4 billion, which equated to roughly $0.22 a share after-tax. $3.8 billion of the litigation expense is associated with the build in reserves for previously disclosed legacy mortgage-related matters, which also included the AIG settlement that we announced this morning.

We're very pleased to reach a definitive agreement with AIG , which resolves all outstanding RMBS litigation between the parties for a settlement amount of $650 million. This agreement is important for two primary reasons.

First, we have now resolved 95% of the unpaid balance of all RMBS as to which securities litigation has either been filed or threatened for all Bank of America -related entities. It also includes AIG 's agreement to withdraw as an objector to the Bank of New York Mellon private-label securities settlement, referred to as the Article 77 proceeding.

Revenues this quarter on an FTE basis were $22 billion. Relative to the second quarter of 2013, revenue was down $990 million, driven by lower net interest income and mortgage banking income. Relative to the first quarter of 2014 it was approximately $800 million lower, as higher investment banking fees, higher mortgage banking revenue was more than offset by seasonally lower sales and trading revenue as well as lower equity investment income.

Total noninterest expense for the quarter was $18.5 billion, but included $4 billion of litigation expense. If we back out that litigation expense and compare it to Q2 2013, expenses improved by $1 billion or 6%, which was driven by lower LAS non-litigation expenses and, to a lesser extent, our New BAC savings.

If we back out the $1 billion of retirement-eligible incentive comp from our first-quarter results as well, you can see expenses declined roughly $700 million from the first quarter as a result of lower revenue-related compensation within our Global Markets business; lower LAS expenses ex-litigation; and to a lesser degree, our New BAC savings.

Provision for credit losses was $411 million, with net charge-offs of $1.1 billion and a reserve release of $662 million during the quarter.

Our results from the quarter also benefited from the sale of $2.1 billion in nonperforming residential loans. The income statement benefit from that sale was approximately $350 million pretax, or $0.02 a share after-tax. And you saw roughly $150 million of that benefit flow through other income and the balance through the recovery of net charge-offs.

Lastly, the aggregate amount of a few other items, including debt securities gains, equity investment income, net DVA, as well as FAS 91, resulted in a benefit to EPS of approximately $0.04 a share.

If we move to slide 3 and look at our balance sheet highlights, you can see the balance sheet increased $21 billion from the first quarter of 2014. Our debt securities increased as a result of valuations and increases to highly liquid securities in our primary banking subsidiary. Our repo match book increased as well.

If we look at ending loans, they were down $4.3 billion, primarily due to lower residential mortgages, principally within our discretionary portfolios. And that also included the $2.1 billion bulk sale that I just mentioned.

If we exclude residential mortgage loans, our Consumer loans rose slightly as our US card balances grew $1.3 billion and our securities-based lending with our Wealth Management clients increased $1.8 billion. This was partially offset by paydowns within our home equity book.

If we move to the Commercial side, Commercial loans were up modestly as C&I growth was mostly offset by a few sizable loan paydowns as well as a focus on overall relationship returns. Period-end deposits were over $1.1 trillion and reached record levels.

Our tangible common equity ratio improved 14 basis points from the first quarter of 2014 to 7.14%. Tangible book value per share was $14.24, a 3% improvement from the first quarter, and was driven by both our earnings during the quarter as well as a $2.3 billion increase in the value of our debt securities, which you saw flow through OCI.

Lastly, to further enhance our Tier 1 capital structure, during the second quarter we received shareholder approval and amended the Series T preferred shares, which increased our Tier 1 capital by $2.9 billion, and we issued $1.5 billion in preferred stock during the quarter at a favorable rate.

On slide 4, we show our capital ratios under Basel 3. Under the transition rules our CET1 capital was $153.6 billion; risk-weighted assets, $1.28 trillion; and that resulted in a ratio of 12%.

If we look at our Basel 3 regulatory capital ratios on a fully phased-in basis, we saw very strong improvement from the first quarter of 2014. Our CET1 capital improved $7 billion, driven by earnings, OCI improvement, as well as lowered threshold deductions. The numbers in the chart reflect risk-weighted assets under the Standardized Approach, with our CET1 ratio improving from 9% to 9.5%, well above our 8.5% 2019 proposed minimum requirement.

Under the Advanced Approach, our CET1 ratio improved from 9.6% at the end of the first quarter of 2014 to 9.9%. That was driven by the improvement in our capital, partially offset by an increase in risk-weighted assets.

If we turn to the supplementary leverage ratios, we estimate that at the end of the second quarter of 2014 we exceeded the updated US rules that are applicable beginning in 2018. Our Bank Holding Company exceeds the 5% minimum, and our primary bank subsidiaries, BANA and FIA, are both in excess of the 6% minimum.

We turn to slide 5, on funding and liquidity, our long-term debt of $257 billion was up modestly during the quarter as our debt issuances were larger than maturities during the period. As we look forward at our debt issuance during the balance of the year, we will continue to be opportunistic; but we do expect our parent issuance to be below the $13 billion of contractual maturities in the second half of 2014. We will also likely to continue to issue term debt out of our primary bank subsidiaries.

Our second-quarter 2014 long-term debt yields improved 12 basis points from the first quarter of 2014 to 2.29%. We have realized significant improvement, given only 2 years ago this yield was over 3% and our average debt balances were nearly $75 billion higher.

Our total Global Excess Liquidity Sources during the quarter increased to a record $431 billion as bank liquidity continued to grow in the second quarter, and our time to required funding remains strong at 38 months.

If we turn to slide 6, our net interest income on a reported FTE basis was $10.2 billion, consistent with the first quarter of 2014, as a less negative impact from market-related adjustments was offset by an anticipated decline in the core net interest income. Negatively impacting our reported net interest income during the quarter were market-related adjustments $175 million, and that compares to $273 million negative in the first quarter of 2014. As you all know, long-term rates declined again during the quarter.

Our net interest income, if we exclude the market-related adjustments, declined as previously expected and communicated, due to seasonally lower average consumer loan balances and yields, offset by an extra day of interest. And all of that resulted in net interest income of $10.4 billion.

As a result of the increased liquidity in the first half of the year as well as lower loan balances and loan yields, the net interest yield excluding market-related adjustments declined 10 basis points to 2.26%.

We continue to thoughtfully manage our OCI sensitivity and are very mindful of the liquidity and leverage rules, as this quarter we invested more into shorter-duration Treasury securities. We continue to remain positioned to benefit if interest rates move higher, particularly from the shorter end of the curve. And as we head into the back half of 2014, we still expect modest improvement off of the second quarter of 2014 level of net interest income, which was $10.4 billion, excluding market-related adjustments.

Noninterest expense on slide 7 was $18.5 billion during the second quarter and once again included $4 billion of litigation expense. As we mentioned, $3.8 billion of the litigation expense relates to a build in reserves associated with previously disclosed legacy mortgage-related matters, including the AIG agreement.

If we exclude litigation, total expenses were $14.6 billion this quarter. If we compare those to the first quarter of 2014 and exclude retirement-eligible cost that we saw during the first quarter of 2014, our expenses declined $700 million on lower incentives related to sales and trading revenue, reduced LAS non-litigation expense, and to a lesser extent New BAC savings.

Our Legacy Assets & Servicing expenses during the quarter, ex-litigation, were $1.4 billion and declined approximately $150 million from the first quarter of 2014.

As we look forward, with respect to our two expense programs, New BAC, as well as our LAS expenses, ex-litigation, we have modified our expectation slightly. Our New BAC expense program is ahead of schedule, and we now expect to reach a quarterly level of $2 billion in expense savings in the fourth quarter of 2014 as opposed to mid-2015.

This means on an annualized basis we will have fully achieved the $8 billion target that we announced in 2011. In the second quarter of 2014, our quarterly savings rate that was achieved on New BAC was $1.8 billion plus.

Moving to our LAS expenses, ex-litigation, we continue to make very good progress. But our compliance with applicable mortgage programs as well as governance guidelines may delay the expected timing of achieving our $1.1 billion goal by one quarter.

If we turn to asset quality on slide 8, you can see credit quality once again improved on all fronts. Net charge-offs declined $315 million from the first quarter of 2014 to $1.1 billion, or a 48 basis point net loss ratio.

As I mentioned earlier, this quarter did include a $2.1 billion sale of bulk nonperforming loans, which included recoveries of $185 million on previously recorded net charge-offs. If we exclude the effect of the bulk sale net charge-offs, they declined $130 million or 9%; and the net loss ratio would have been at 56 basis points. These are decade-level loads.

Delinquencies, a leading indicator of net charge-offs, also showed improvement during the second quarter. Provision expense during the quarter was $411 million, and we released $662 million of reserves.

We would expect net charge-offs going forward to continue to show modest improvement from the second quarter of 2014 levels of $1.3 billion, which excludes the recoveries that we received on the nonperforming loan sales. We would also expect reserve releases to decline modestly through the balance of 2014.

Let's walk through the business segment results now starting on slide 9 with Consumer & Business Banking. We continue to make solid progress on the strategy in this business through deepening relationships and reducing our costs by optimizing the delivery network.

We are simplifying the product set as we reduce the number of offerings and focus the smaller product set on customer feedback, and offer greater rewards to customers who bring us more of their relationships. Some of the more significant operational activity during the quarter included the rollout of an advanced platform for mobile banking that had added functionality; rolling out the Safe Balance checking account; as well as an enhanced Preferred Rewards program that we launched after a successful pilot program.

We are pleased with the results again this quarter, as our earnings of $1.8 billion grew 29% from the second quarter of 2013 and were up 7% from the first quarter of 2014. This business generated a 24% return on allocated capital during the quarter.

Our revenue was relatively stable across the periods, as lower net interest income was partially offset by higher service charges. Our expenses are down 4% from the second quarter of 2013 on lower operating, litigation, and personnel costs. Our network delivery optimization benefits continued as we reduced another 72 Banking Centers through both sales as well as consolidations.

Our credit quality remains strong, as net charge-offs declined versus both periods. Our US credit card business exited the quarter with less than a 3% loss rate in June.

Second-quarter provision expense was $534 million. Our net charge-offs improved $313 million from the second quarter of 2013, and $36 million from the first quarter of 2014. We released $120 million more in reserves this quarter than the second quarter of 2013, and $242 million more than the first quarter of 2014.

From a customer activity perspective this quarter, we saw continued growth in our mobile banking customers, which reached 15.5 million customers. And our customer deposit transactions using mobile devices represented 10% of all transactions.

Our average deposits of $544 billion are up organically almost $11 billion or 2% compared to the first quarter of 2014, and up 5% or nearly $25 billion compared to the second quarter of 2013. And we did that as our rates paid on our deposits reached a new low of 6 basis points.

Our brokeraged assets surpassed $105 billion and are up 26% year-over-year based on both improved market valuation as well as customer flows.

Our card issuance remains strong at 1.1 million new accounts in the second quarter of 2014, with approximately two-thirds of those cards going to existing customers. We saw growth in ending US credit card balances this period, with ending balances up $1.3 billion relative to the first quarter of 2014; and our risk-adjusted margin remains strong at approximately 9%.

If you move to Consumer Real Estate Services, the loss in the quarter was driven by $3.8 billion of litigation expense. Overall, we saw higher originations, improved mortgage banking revenue, and lower cost in both the fulfillment as well as the servicing sides of the business.

Let's focus first on the reported subsegment of Home Loans, where we record the origination of Consumer Real Estate. Our home loans saw better leverage versus the first quarter of 2014 as both revenue and expenses improved.

Our first mortgage retail originations were $11.1 billion and were up 25% from the first quarter of 2014, leading to higher core production revenue. As Brian mentioned, our mix of originations continues to shift to purchased, as we are now at 47% purchased versus 17% in the year-ago quarter. At the end of the quarter, our origination pipeline was up 15% from the first quarter of 2014, but our applications per day are slowing a bit.

Our home equity originations were $2.6 billion and increased 31% from the first quarter of 2014. We continued to reduce production staffing levels; and the savings from several quarters of these reductions are beginning to show in our expense levels.

If we move to the Legacy Assets & Servicing subsegment, the driver here was the aforementioned litigation cost. From a cost of servicing perspective our LAS expenses, ex-litigation, did decline $141 million to $1.4 billion; and our number of 60-plus-day delinquent loans dropped 14,000 units to 263,000 units, or down 5% from the end of the first quarter of 2014.

The primary revenue component in our LAS subsegment, servicing fees, declined $40 million versus the first quarter as the size of our servicing portfolio declined. This was offset by a better net hedge performance on our MSR. Also during the quarter, we did benefit from lower rep and warrant provision, which was $87 million, or down nearly $100 million from the first quarter of 2014.

If we turn to slide 11, Global Wealth & Investment Management, this business turned in another record revenue quarter. Our pretax margins remained strong, north of 25% for the sixth consecutive quarter.

Our revenue of $4.6 billion was up 2% from the second quarter of 2013, and 1% over the first quarter of 2014. Record asset management fees offset the softness in transactional activity. Net income, $724 million, was slightly lower than both comparative periods, driven by increased expenses.

Our expense levels versus the second quarter of 2013 reflect higher revenue-related incentive comp, other volume-related costs, as well as continued investment in technology and other areas to support the growth that we are seeing within the business. Relative to the first quarter 2014, expenses were driven by higher revenue-related cost, litigation-related expenses, as well as marketing.

Our return on allocated capital during the quarter was 24%. The momentum we are seeing in flows continued and was quite strong during the quarter.

Client balances were up $72 billion from the end of the first quarter of 2014 to a record $2.5 trillion. Long-term AUM flows were nearly $12 billion for the quarter, marking the fifth straight year of positive quarterly AUM flows. Our ending client loan balances were up $3.9 billion to a record $123 billion, which is up 3% from the first quarter of 2014, as we saw growth in both our securities-based lending as well as our residential mortgage lending.

From a referral perspective, we continue to see coordinated efforts across Wealth Management and the banking groups, as our referrals resulted in the funding of more than 250 institutional retirement plans worth more than $2.4 billion in assets this quarter. And that compares to 156 wins in the year-ago quarter for $600 million in assets.

If we turn to slide 12, our Global Banking earnings for the quarter were $1.4 billion, up 4% from the second quarter of 2013, and up 9% over the first quarter of 2014. Our return on allocated capital was very strong at 18%.

Compared to the second quarter of 2013, our revenue showed modest improvement, while expenses increased and credit costs declined. Within the revenue category, our investment banking fees companywide this quarter were $1.6 billion, up 5% from the second quarter of 2013 and up 6% on a linked-quarter basis. We maintained a solid leadership position in investment banking fees, and we had particularly strong equity underwriting results during the quarter.

Our provision was $132 million during the quarter. It included a $156 million reserve build. Our provision costs were favorable to both comparative periods, as we added less reserves in the first quarter of 2014 and had less charge-offs compared to the second quarter of 2013.

Expenses increased $50 million versus the second quarter of 2013 on higher litigation, but improved $129 million from the first quarter of 2014 on lower personnel and back-office support costs.

If we look at the balance sheet, average loans were $271 billion during the quarter, up 6% compared to the second quarter of 2013, but flattish compared to the first quarter of 2014. Our loan balances relative to the first quarter of 2014 bear, I think, several comments that I would like to make.

The first is we saw sizable paydowns during the quarter as our customers accessed the capital markets. We had approximately $2 billion of such paydowns, where our customers chose to access the markets and refinance existing bank loans.

Within Commercial Real Estate , we continued to optimize the mix, with several small portfolio sales that took those balances down a little over $2 billion. And we are being sensitive with respect to pricing of commercial loans, as we are not going to chase loans at the expense of overall client relationship profitability goals. Lastly, within the Global Banking segment deposit flows remained solid and were stronger at the end of the quarter.

If we move to Global Markets on slide 13, we earned $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2014. That is up 14% from the year-ago period and down seasonally 16% from the seasonally strong period of the first quarter.

Net DVA during the quarter was a gain of $69 million, versus gains of $49 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $112 million in the first quarter of 2014.

Despite the slowdown in FICC across the industry group, we were pleased with the results this quarter. Our revenue was up 9% from the second quarter of 2013, but down 9% from the seasonally high first quarter of 2014.

Our second-quarter of 2014 revenue did include an equity gain of roughly $240 million on the monetization of an equity investment. That is not reflected as part of our sales and trading revenue.

Our sales and trading revenue, net of DVA, was $3.4 billion, which was 1% lower than the second quarter of 2013 and 17% lower than the first quarter of 2014. Our FICC sales and trading revenue during the quarter increased 5% compared to the second quarter of 2013 and was down 20% from the seasonally higher first quarter of 2014 levels.

Driving the year-over-year improvement within FICC will result in both our mortgage business, our munis business, as trading conditions and our performance improved in both areas. Those improvements were partially offset by weaker financial performance in foreign exchange as well as commodities.

On the equity sales and trading side, we were down 14% from the second quarter 2013 and 11% from the first quarter of 2014, as lower market volatility depressed overall secondary market client activity.

Expenses were up from the second quarter of 2013 on higher technology and staff support investments and, to a lesser degree, incentives, but down from the first quarter of 2014, in line with the seasonal revenue decline that we saw. Trading-related assets on average increased $23 billion to $460 billion during the quarter, and our return on allocated capital was 13% during the second quarter.

On slide 14, we show All Other. Revenue was down $463 million from the first quarter of 2014 on lower equity investment gains of $618 million, which were partially offset by lower negative market-related adjustments to net interest income during the quarter. Our second-quarter 2014 expense in All Other is down $1.3 billion from the first quarter, as it included retirement-eligible incentive cost and some litigation expense.

The second quarter of 2014 provision benefit of $246 million was $111 million better than the first quarter of 2014, and $67 million better than the second quarter of 2013. Net charge-offs of $11 million improved $195 million from the first quarter of 2014, driven by the recoveries that I had mentioned associated with our bulk NPL sales.

During the quarter, our effective tax rate was relatively low, primarily as a result of the impact of tax preference items on a lower earnings base. For the back half of 2014, we would expect to see an effective tax rate of approximately 31%, ex- any unusual items.

I'm going to wrap up before we take questions with a couple closing comments. We feel like we made very strong progress during the quarter. We saw good business activity across the customer base.

We experienced year-over-year revenue growth in our Global Banking, Global Markets, and Global Wealth Management businesses. Our Consumer Business profitability grew 29% from last year. And in the mortgage business we are taking costs out of the fulfillment side as well as the cost to service our delinquent loans.

We reported $0.19 of earnings in absorbed cost, allowing us to resolve all outstanding RMBS issues with AIG and build substantial reserves for our remaining legacy mortgage issues. We did this while adding to our already-strong Basel 3 capital ratios and improving our liquidity measures to record levels. And our asset quality improved to decade-low loss ratios.

With that, we will go ahead and open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley .

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Hey, thanks. Good morning. Hey, a couple questions. One, you had some callouts on some nice gains; and I know a couple of other banks reporting here this cycle have done the same thing.

I am wondering how much more in your pipeline do you think you have to extract some value from the mortgage-related portfolio here that you're in the process of selling down this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes. We took, Betsy, a piece of our nonperforming loans out. And as nonperforming loans, and as you know, when you receive it -- to the extent that you receive income, you write down the basis to those loans. And we took those loans out and saw healthy gains.

We continue to look at the sale of nonperforming loans, but I would not expect anything near the magnitude from the sale of nonperforming loans that we saw this quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Separately, on just litigation-related stuff, you highlighted the AIG agreement; that looks like a great win for you guys. I guess the question is: Does them pulling out as a dissenter do anything to speed up the timing on that Article 77 case?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think the timing is going to progress on the schedule that it otherwise would have. I think you all know that from an objector perspective that they were probably the strongest and most vocal objector with respect to the case. And we'll just have to see as we move forward what the impact from them dropping their objection to the case is.

I think the other thing that's important is as it relates to holdings of the securities, or at least a basis to object. They were the largest holder that was out there from holding securities as a part of the settlement. And I think they noted that in their release this morning.

BETSY GRASECK: Yes, thanks. Okay. Then just lastly, there's been a lot of debate recently about how the Fed could potentially start to exit. Obviously in the [F one two] minutes they talked about that, and it's been on some of the calls recently about how people are thinking about rate betas.

I know from the Q you have a relatively positive outlook for what rising rates does to your earnings stream. Could you just remind us what percentage of your deposits are consumer, and how you're thinking about rate betas in a rate rise environment relative to asset betas?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. A couple things. If you look at asset sensitivity, you will see that the exposure to a 100 basis point parallel shift in rates, that the benefit increased this quarter from about $3.2 billion in the first quarter to $3.4 billion.

As you look at the deposit base, a couple things of note. The first is, north of 70% of the overall deposits that we have throughout the Company are within our Consumer and Wealth Management business. As it relates to, I would say overall asset betas that through history, given the branch network and the relationships, those tend to be very stable. I think you get a sense for that as you look at the continued deposit growth that we have seen, while at the same time taking rates paid down pretty significantly.

If you move to the institutional side and look at where we are, roughly 75% of the deposits that we have within the institutional business are domiciled here in the US. And the predominant mix of that is with our core Corporate and Commercial customers.

If you look at the reason that they are holding those deposits with us, it is because we tend to be their core relationship bank. We do their cash management; we do their Treasury service revenue and have relationships that are beyond just a place for them to put their deposits.

So as we move forward, there is obviously a level of uncertainty to the extent of a Fed withdrawal. But as we look at the overall deposit base, the stability of it, and our outlook going forward, we feel like that we are very well positioned.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I would add on the consumer side also, as you look at year-over-year dynamics in terms of deposit growth of $25 billion, also look at the -- we are still running off a CD portfolio that was more of a funding portfolio for some of the companies that we acquired. So that I think there is, round numbers, a $10 billion reduction in CDs over that time period. And we've also obviously sold some deposits; not a huge amount.

So that growth is over top of all that and net. So we feel good about the Consumer franchise, the ability to continue to grow deposits, even while being very disciplined on price. And as rates rise, that value will be recognized.

And we expect those deposits now are much more core. The average checking account deposits year-over-year I think are up 25%, 30% in terms of average balance.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell , Buckingham Research .

JIM MITCHELL , ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Yes, hey. Good morning. Yes, I just wanted to follow up quickly, up on that deposit question. I noticed that noninterest-bearing was up 11%; interest-bearing up only 1%. So that speaks to your efforts.

Do you think there is more to go there? Or should we start to see deposit growth more in line with your peers at this point?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think if you look at the -- just on a Consumer business, the year-over-year growth was $25 billion and the linked-quarter growth was $10 billion. So obviously we're growing at a faster rate in the current environment -- at the spot, so to speak, Jim -- than we have been year-over-year.

So the growth rate of 2% was nominal in a quarter which would be annualized 8% and about high 5%s to 6% year-over-year. So it's accelerating still by the good core activity.

JIM MITCHELL : Right. Okay, great. Then on loan growth you still have, as you mentioned, a couple of asset sales, still some legacy asset runoff. When do we start to see the inflection point, in your view? And maybe if you can give us a sense of underlying demand that you're seeing in your customer group.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. Let's go -- it's a very good question, Jim, and I think we need to break out and discuss -- if you look at the declines that we saw in the residential mortgage area, those are largely due to whole loan repayments of loans that are held within our investment portfolio. So if you look at the Consumer Business, I think there are a couple key things that I would note.

The first is on a linked-quarter basis this is the first quarter in some time where we actually saw ending card balances within our domestic card balance increase. Those were up, as we mentioned, roughly $1.3 billion from the first quarter to the second quarter. So we saw growth there.

Then if you move to what we saw within the Wealth Management area, as I mentioned we saw very strong growth both in securities-based landing as well as within mortgage originations there. Once again, on the home equity front the progress that we're making on the origination front, where we saw about $2.6 billion, is really being masked by the runoff and the amortization of the home equity book that we had; that runs off to the extent of $3 billion to $4 billion a quarter.

So within the Consumer businesses, if you look at the core front-end, we are seeing some consumer loan growth. It just gets masked by the runoff of some of the Consumer Real Estate.

On the overall Commercial and Corporate side, I did reference the couple payoffs. As we look at -- one of the benchmarks that we look at is the revolver draws that we have within our Commercial Banking business. That number, which has gotten as low as in the low 30%s was up almost 100 basis points this quarter and is now in the high 30%s. So we are starting to see some greater activity on the revolver space within our Commercial Banking customers.

And overall activity with the corporate customers continues to be good, but we are seeing, as I referenced, customers taking advantage of favorable debt capital markets, which we obviously benefit from, from a debt underwriting perspective.

JIM MITCHELL : Right, that's fair. Just one last question on the LCR. Maybe I missed it. Did you disclose where you are on that front?

BRUCE THOMPSON : We did not. At the parent at this point we are above 100%, at the parent. So we're good from a 2017 compliance there.

If we look at the combined BANA/FIA LCR ratio, those two companies or two banks will be put together October 1. That LCR number is in the high 80%s at this point and we'll continue to build the LCR ratio at the banks to be at least a year ahead of where we need to be.

JIM MITCHELL : Will that put any further pressure on NIM, if you're building more liquidity there?

BRUCE THOMPSON : It should not. As we look at it, there has been a significant build at this point. And as we look at the funding and the balance of that between both core consumer deposit growth as well as where we are, that should not have an effect.

If you look at the build that we talked about in the first quarter and second quarter, at this point I would say we have eaten that expense. And we now need to get after it and optimize it to get the expense knocked back down.

JIM MITCHELL : Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor , Deutsche Bank .

MATT O'CONNOR , ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Hi, good morning. On expenses, it seems like most of the New BAC savings are in the run rate here. Yet we still read about various expense initiatives that you have underway in terms of branch rationalization and simplification and things like that.

So just wondering. Is there another New BAC, or just ongoing efforts to bring down costs, and how meaningful those might be?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think in the near-term, Matt, the number-one thing about costs is continuing to work down the LAS legacy costs, down to a more normalized level on a per-loan basis and also keep reducing the number of delinquent loans. So that's the real expense leverage.

And what Bruce talked about earlier is we've got to make sure we do it the right way, and especially in connection with finishing up some of the regulatory work there. So that is the real large dollar amount.

You're pointing out exactly the situation on the core. You're running about $13 billion a quarter on core expenses; not a bad number if you annualize it and think that through. But the real question is: How do you hold it there and keep investing in the businesses?

So when we started the New BAC, we never gave a target that said we're going to save all this money but we're going to reinvest it. We gave you sort of a net target, and now we're reaching that.

So what we're challenging our teams to do is how to maintain a good operating leverage going forward. So we're more about simplifying the Company and continuing to take out expenses; but a lot of that will offset the thousand people we have added in the branches to sell more products that you're seeing the benefits of, the continued adds we make in the Wealth Management business and the training programs. We hired 30% to 40% more people out of schools this year because we got to keep replenishing our talent base, commercial bankers, etc.

So as you look forward, the inflationary type things that go on, merit raises and healthcare expenses, and stuff like that, and investing in the business, including the $3-billion-plus we put in technology development every year, will need to be offset by hard expense work. So that's the plan we have, and we're putting those -- we keep driving those plans in place.

But it would be less bottom-line reduction on that core expense base and more how you hold it there in a relatively slow growth environment.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. So just to try and summarize, even if there is some modest revenue growth, you would hope to keep that $13 billion relatively stable on a net basis, then?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Yes, with one exception. When markets kicks up you are going to have more comp related to that, or Wealth Management comp, which is good. So you've got to be careful, because those things come and go, and you can see that just in the last couple quarters.

But on the -- like, if you think about what David Darnell and the team have done in the retail business, they are still rationalizing the branch structure, which will offset putting more people in the branches that are more personal bankers and FSAs. And they have done a pretty good job at offsetting that.

In addition, we are repatriating some jobs to help on the consumer credit, customer delight scores and stuff, from places that legacy enterprises had them in other places, and bringing them in. And that rationalization is going on, and that is adding to our job count in the near term but will rationalize back out.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. Then on the LAS costs, obviously making good progress there. I am not sure there is too much concern if it gets pushed out one quarter. But is there still the goal of getting down to $500 million or below $500 million per quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes. And obviously that is going to trail and move with it as we drive down the 60-plus-day delinquent loans. But clearly the $1.1 billion that we'll either have in the fourth quarter or the first quarter of next year is still way too high given the number of 60-plus-day delinquent loans that we have, as well as the size of the servicing portfolio.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. Then just lastly if I can squeeze in on the CCAR capital resubmission process, just remind us when you expect to get an update on that.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. We recently -- we submitted our materials to the Fed on May 27. They have up to 75 days to respond. I believe the 75th day is August 10, and we continue to see where they come out.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr , ISI.

GLENN SCHORR , ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Thank you. Quick question. The match book was up, or at least the Fed funds sold and repurchased on the asset side was up 6.5% quarter-on-quarter. It's the opposite of what we're seeing at a lot of banks and trends in the market. So I am just curious.

Is there an opportunity to get closer to clients? Is this a function of the fact that your SLR is in great shape, so why not use it when you can? Just curious on what is underlying that trend.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, I would say, Glenn, probably more than anything, if you go back and look at both the notional size of the balance sheet as well as the match book, we were probably a little bit lower at the end of the first quarter of 2014 than you would normally see. So that number will bounce around, but I wouldn't read anything into the fact that it was up, because it was much lower at both the end of 2013 as well as the first quarter of 2014.

GLENN SCHORR : Anything different on the client usage front? It is bucking a trend, though I hear your comments on the year-end. It's just with the changes in SLR, it's changing pricing theoretically; I just don't know if it's more theoretical than actual.

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think the pricing is probably more theoretical. Because I think if you look across the industry, we continue to see both the banks in Europe as well as the banks in Asia provide it. So I'm not sure you are seeing any meaningful movement in what you are able to charge from a match book perspective.

GLENN SCHORR : I get that, yes. Okay, switching gears. In Wealth Management, obviously everything is doing pretty darn good in Wealth Management. But I will pick a little bit and I will just ask.

Expense -- negative operating leverage in a quarter when the markets are doing well, meaning revenues were up or expenses are up more. I heard and saw your comments on the additional investments in technology.

Is it comp, or is it that additional investment technology? In other words, when markets are growing and flows are great you would expect margins to hold their ground, not give it up. Maybe a little more color on what investments to help that business grow would be helpful.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. Well, you've got a couple things. The first is, as you look at the expense growth during the quarter and you look at the buckets, roughly half of it relates to incentive-related comp that is a result of increased revenues.

We do have a couple of initiatives that you would expect to roll off over the next couple quarters within the Wealth Management business. We obviously had the rollout of Merrill One over the last couple quarters, where you saw some expense there.

There has been some additional money spent as we invest in systems related to retirement systems and retirement programs, as we continue to see growth there. So you do have some of that activity as well as just making sure that the right investments within the various control and support functions are appropriate.

So at the same time, as we look forward you need to see positive operating leverage, not negative operating leverage. And that's what we will look to work for as we go through the next couple quarters of the year.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : You point out, it's an obvious point and we -- the team is focused on it. But we have made some near-term investments, including training programs and hiring people into the business, working in the branches and stuff, to help.

But it is something that we've got to monitor closely, and we think it will come back down and more in line with what you'd expect.

GLENN SCHORR : Right. I appreciate that. Last one is, slide 20 shows that the private-label outstanding claims keep going up every quarter. Anything new there?

I am not sure what's driving that and if -- I know that we have most of this stuff accounted for in the settlements. But just curious.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. I think the notable thing that I would call out is that when we get private-label claims that come in, there are two different types of claims that come in. There is the first that are claims where people have had the ability to look at loan files and submit a claim based on a loan file not being what they thought it could be. And the second is that you can have people that at points in time do what we call -- or throw in what we would characterize as a bulk claim, where they're just throwing it in without having done any work whatsoever on the loan file.

And what's important when you look at what we saw during the second quarter of 2014, we saw roughly $1.9 billion of original unpaid balance on the loans not lost, growth of that amount. The amount of bulk claims where no file reviews had been down was $1.9 billion. So I would not read too much into that number, because it's not for loan files where there has been any work done.

And I would just say generally, if you look at what we have seen regarding some of the recent decisions where there seems to be some stickiness at this point on different statutes of limitation, as well as a recent ruling that came out of California with respect to RMBS litigation, that we do feel like we're moving forward. And getting AIG behind us is significant in regards to putting the rest of this behind us.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay. I appreciate it. That's it for me. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John McDonald , Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD , ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi, good morning. Bruce, the increase in Tier 1 common of $7 billion was impressive relative to the net income in the quarter. Any more color on the drivers there?

You mentioned AOCI. What were the threshold deductions that helped drive the capital expansion so much more than that income?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. As we've said, given where we are from a disallowed DTA position, that we're at a point where broadly speaking we accrete capital on a pretax as opposed to an after-tax basis. So as you look at the results, we had roughly $3 billion of pretax income; we had roughly $3.5 billion of pretax OCI. That gets you to about $6.5 billion.

And then as you look at threshold deductions of roughly 10%, take 10% of that $6.5 billion; it gets you roughly $700 million. That gets you to roughly $7.2 billion of capital build.

You back out the common dividends of $100 million, and that get you to your $7.1 billion build.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, and that building at a pretax due to the DTA, that is something that should continue on a steady pace, right?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Clearly at least over the next, I would say, probably two to four quarters, it will be a function of the exact earnings. But for the near term, that's correct.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. Can you give us the numbers on what the excluded DTA is today and what it changed in during the quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes. I believe that the excluded DTA was roughly $15 billion. And it was down a little over $1 billion.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. On RWA, are there risks that the continued legal settlements would drive up your operational risk metrics? Or is there a forward-looking component to the op risk calc that already anticipates more settlements coming?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, we're mindful of the fact of settlements. There's obviously a lot of discussion and dialog around op risk RWA.

If you look at -- and when we noted that the reason risk-weighted assets went up during the quarter under the Advanced Approach it was for doing exactly what you referenced, was reflecting an increased amount of operational risk RWA.

We don't give the exact number, but you should assume that that amount is in the 26% to 27% of our total risk-weighted assets number and is in line with our largest peer.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. On capital, on the last CCAR your binding constraint was the leverage ratio more than the risk-based Tier 1 minimum. I assume the recent preferred issuance and the Buffett conversions will help close that gap and position you better for next year's CCAR minimum.

Could you comment on that? Or are there more things you can do to close the gap and have a quantitative cushion that's bigger to that leverage ratio next year as well?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. Well, the first, John, is just to manage the notional size of the balance sheet, which we continue to do. The second thing that I would note is, when you look at the sale of the re-performing loans that we did, those are the types of assets that in the CCAR -- at least we believe; we don't have access to the Federal Reserve 's models -- but those are the types of assets that tend to get hard.

So we continue to look hard and look to drive down the nonperforming Consumer Real Estate piece of what we have. And this quarter was a good example of it.

Then, you're exactly right with respect to the leverage ratio, that there is a benefit that preferred stock gives. We are north of $4 billion this quarter that we generated. We will continue to look to see if more preferred makes sense.

And then lastly, we will continue to look at and see if sub-debt makes sense from a total capital perspective as well. The incremental cost of those is very low, and we just want to make sure the balance sheet is optimized for those different buckets.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, thanks. On sales and trading, just in terms of the dynamics of the quarter, did you see a pickup in June as the other banks did? And any sense of what drove that? Have you seen any follow-through on that?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, our activity levels -- and if you saw a P&L throughout the quarter, while June was marginally better, I would characterize the activity that we saw within the sales and trading business during the second quarter to be fairly consistent. And as we look out at the third quarter, typically with the summer the third quarter is a little bit seasonally slower than the second quarter. If you look at our results last year, you see that.

And as we come into the third quarter, there is nothing unusual in our third-quarter numbers of last year. And how we compare to those numbers is going to be a function of how well we perform this quarter, and that's obviously up to us.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : John, if you look at page 19, you can see the second quarter, second quarter, second quarter across the last 3 years. And it's remarkably stable in terms of markets revenue, on the lower part of that page.

So what Tom and the team did a few years ago was actually reduce the headcount almost 5,000 people and that's allowed us to make $1 billion in this kind of environment, as we did this quarter. So this will ebb and flow; and as you and I have talked about on various occasions, it is a core part of what we do.

But we show you the separate P&L to show that in the first quarter, have a good quarter; this quarter had $1 billion. And it may come down. Activity moves around for clients, but it is a relatively stable revenue base that we can make money on because of the expense adjustments we made last year -- in the last several years.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. Last thing for me, Bruce, on the CRES page, in terms of mortgage servicing revenues, is this quarter's core mortgage servicing revenue a stable base as you see it? Or is there further shrinkage in the size of the servicing book from sales that are ongoing that would impact the servicing fees?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, there's -- we've got one more sale that we will look to wrap up this quarter that's got fairly high content of 60-plus-day delinquent loans. But beyond that one transfer this quarter, we are largely at the end of servicing sales.

And we're at a base of what you see should be what we have going forward, with the pluses and minuses being what runs off versus what we put on.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. You're still taking rep and warranty provisions. What are those for? Is that for current originations, or is it still catch-up from past stuff?

BRUCE THOMPSON : As you look at it, I think rep and warrant was less than $100 million this quarter. You're going to always have that as you go forward; but we're not seeing much rep and warrant at all on recent originations. It's going to be more legacy related.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Autonomous.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Thanks, good morning. The first question I had was just a follow-up on CRES. Is there any immediate benefit in terms of the ability to accelerate LAS legacy servicing cost reductions now because of the bulk sale?

BRUCE THOMPSON : From a number of units perspective, as you look at the bulk sale there was a piece of it that we serviced, and there was also a piece that others serviced. So in the context of the number of 60-plus-day delinquent loans, it was not meaningful relative to the total.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. So what we're really looking at is more what you were talking about in response to John's question a minute ago, which is the potential for one more sale this quarter and then just normal runoff.

BRUCE THOMPSON : That's correct.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. Question for you, while we're on the topic of mortgage stuff. Obviously you had the $4 billion litigation reserve build essentially this quarter.

It appears, based on what you gave as an after-tax impact that you take a full tax benefit against that. Of course, what we find with a lot of these things, especially with like the DOJ settlements, is that a large amount is not deductible. Do you have any flexibility with respect to being able to use a lower tax rate?

BRUCE THOMPSON : A couple things. We don't give the exact numbers; but if you go back, Guy, and look at the first quarter, we look at and try to understand what the tax treatment is for the different settlements. There was a piece of it in the first quarter that we would have assumed was not tax-deductible.

And, you're right, the piece that -- in the reserve that we took this quarter there was a presumption that it was tax-deductible. And the short answer is, until you get to the end, you don't know the exact mix.

But -- so we have tried to be thoughtful with that and just say, as it relates to the total number, as we said last quarter there was -- I think it was $2.4 billion of litigation expense over and above what was for settlements. In this quarter, you've got in the high $3 billions. And I think it gives you a sense as to the magnitude of the reserves that have been built over the last two quarters.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. Switching topics, you did talk about pricing on commercial loans in the context of not seeing a meaningful increase in commercial loan balances this quarter, and I guess alluded to some discipline that you're exercising. Can you talk a little bit about the conditions that you're seeing in the commercial loan market and where you think there is froth?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. If you look at -- and embedded under the Global Banking segment we've got the loans that are down within our Corporate Investment Bank that tend to be for the larger companies. And as we looked at spreads and yields on a linked-quarter basis within our business we saw relative stability in the yields in those businesses.

And, as we look out at -- in the marketplace, given that those loans that are brought for those customers tend to be broadly syndicated, and there tends to be a relationship in the yield between that and where they can access capital in the capital market, that loan pricing over the last quarter has hung in there and, like I said, was generally flat Q1 to Q2.

I would say where you tend to see a little bit more of the competitive pressure tends to be within the base commercial bank, which is core middle-market companies, where they tend to be more one-, two-, or three-bank deals. And we have seen that area continues to be pretty competitive and we are just being disciplined with how we approach that market.

Given the footprint that we have, we do have the flexibility to not chase things within some of these regional markets.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Just to follow up on that, when you say banks competing for that business, are you using the word bank in a traditional sense? Or are you actually seeing a lot of the competition for those type of mid-market loans coming from outside of what we would think of as the traditional banking sector?

BRUCE THOMPSON : No, I would -- for the core commercial customer, that's going to be the traditional banking customer as you'd think of it.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. Then just a housekeeping question, just to make sure I understand what you were saying. You said there were maybe $250 million of gains in Global Markets, I guess. Probably -- not to put words in your mouth -- but things like market.

But I think you said that you did not include those numbers in the core equities or fixed income segment revenues. Is that right?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes; that's correct. So we had a position that went public during the quarter. There was a gain, and it's reflected in the revenues of the Global Markets segment. But we did not think it was appropriate to include that in the core FICC and equity sales and trading.

So if you go to the table on page 13, when you look at that FICC and equity sales and trading number, ex-DVA, that does not include any benefit from the gain that we saw within the overall segment during the quarter.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it, perfect. Thanks for the clarification.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch , Credit Suisse .

MOSHE ORENBUCH , ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Great, thanks. I was wondering; you've got a little less than $250 billion of residential real estate loans and $90 billion of home equity. How much do you think those decline before those stabilize?

Because I think you tried to talk about in terms of the overall loan growth. But that's really -- those are really the categories that are shrinking. Do you have a sense as to where those categories will level out?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Well, if you start from a home equity perspective, I think the repayment and run off of those is a good thing and not a bad thing. So you will continue to see, I would expect, over the next couple years that the amortization of those is going to be greater than the new loans coming on the book.

We would not expect, though, as you look at net interest income, given the yields on those versus what you can do with other things, that the runoff of that book will have a negative impact from an overall net interest income perspective.

As it relates to the whole loans piece that we have, I would expect that over time that will continue to run down. We continue to look, as we've talked about before on the Home Loans business, to put and to originate mortgages for customers where we want to hold those loans.

During the quarter we put about $6 billion of home loans that were originated for our customers on our balance sheet. Roughly 75% to 80% of those would have been of the jumbo variety.

But I think to be realistic, over the next probably couple years you're likely to see a little bit more runoff of that than you will see new loans coming on. We obviously have the decision at that point of: Do you want to reinvest those proceeds in other whole loans that you can buy out in the market, or invest those in securities?

And I would say at this point, with LCR as well as what we're focused on from a customer perspective, they're much more likely to be invested in securities than new whole loans that are not for our customers.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Got it. Secondly, the reserve build for legal, I guess, could you talk about how much you have in reserves in total? Or maybe address as to how you came up with that number? Given the fact that I think, if I'm reading the footnotes correctly, that your possible but not accrued losses have stayed flat from the first quarter.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, a couple things. The range of possible loss that you quoted, of being flat from the first quarter to the second quarter, relates to our representation and warranty reserve, not our litigation RPL. So you're correct that the rep and warrant piece was flat quarter-over-quarter.

We do not update and provide our range of possible loss on litigation expense until we file the 10-Q.

As it relates to overall litigation reserves, we do not put out an exact -- or a level of our litigation reserve. What I do think is notable and probably most relevant is the information that I gave you as it relates to the litigation reserve that has been built over the last two quarters that relates to legacy mortgage-related matters. And I think you can see and people are aware of what the most significant of those matters are.

And obviously each quarter, as it relates to the reserving, we go through each quarter and assess where we are and what we think is appropriate from a reserving perspective. And we did that again in this quarter, just like we do in any quarter.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Great. Just a quick follow-up to the first one. You had mentioned investing some of the runoff from the mortgage and home equity portfolio in securities. Is that in the context of keeping those balances stable? Or would you actually increase that portfolio?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, the first goal is obviously, as we've talked about, is to find and invest in loans that are for our core customers across the platform. And that is priority one.

To the extent that there is residual or excess, which there has been given the deposit growth that we've seen, the money does get invested. And it's been invested primarily in the most recent several quarters in securities.

I mentioned OCI risk. The notable thing is if you look at the OCI risk that we have as a Company, even though the securities book has increased significantly over the course of the last 12 months, the overall level of OCI risk based on the different metrics that we look at has not changed. And that is a result of us shortening the portfolio, investing it in shorter-duration Treasury securities.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES : Hi, good morning. The first question I have pertains to capital and RWA specifically. Over the last five quarters, we have actually seen the RWAs on a flat to upward trajectory; and then effectively the growth has mirrored the balance sheet growth that we've seen over that same period.

I just wanted to get a sense as to whether there were any additional mitigation levers that you guys could potentially pull; or whether those types of opportunities have been largely exhausted, and thus the growth going forward will likely continue to mirror the balance sheet.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, I think as it relates to the risk-weighted assets, you need to bifurcate risk-weighted assets under Basel 3 Standardized versus those under Basel 3 Advanced. As you look at the Basel 3 Standardized ratios, the benefits that we have there tend to come from the roll-off of the different consumer loan portfolios, both in first mortgage as well as in home equity.

And we would expect, as we've talked about throughout the call, that you will continue to see a runoff there. And given that a lot of the stuff that's running off is higher loan-to-value than the new stuff that's coming on, that there is incremental benefit there.

So if you look at over the last five quarters, I think in the way that the Standardized metric is set up, the Standardized metric is going to tend to mirror the overall loan growth that you have. I would just say, as I mentioned, going forward on average it will probably be a little bit lower mix coming on than what rolls off.

On the Advanced approach, at this point as we look forward there will continue to be opportunities on stuff that is Advanced but tends to be heavier risk-weighted that rolls off between now and 2017. It's not going to be anywhere near as material as what we've seen. And under the Advanced approach, the recent increases you've seen have largely been attributable to operational risk as opposed to what we're seeing within the core loan categories.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay, thanks. No, that's really helpful. Switching over to GWIM for a moment and actually taking a longer-term view on the earnings power within the segment, there is one area where we have struggled from a modeling perspective. It's trying to contemplate exactly how high the operating margin can get in a rising rate scenario.

Because the operating leverage improvement can be fairly dramatic, but presumably there is that peak margin level where competition is going to intensify to such a degree that effectively there's going to be no more room for improvement beyond, I don't know, let's call it 30%. I didn't know if that was something which you guys had evaluated at least in the context of a rising rate scenario.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think you've got -- one of the levers in the business that people often overlook is the lever towards rising rates. Because in the business itself the amount of total deposits and loans are significant, $250-billion-odd of deposits and significant loans. I think we said on the last call and have said many times, we can see this margin moving towards 30% in that dynamic, in that yield, in that environment.

But I think when you get to there, you start to top out a little bit, if you just understand the broad base of the revenue and the amount that goes through the grid and things like that, that become a governor on what you can do beyond that.

But the mix of our business of wealth management with the private banking business and the loans and deposits from the general client base and what we see [in Europe], that gives us leverage to the upside as you describe.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay, great. One final one on credit. At your Analyst Day a number of years ago, you had given some guidance on through the cycle charge-off rates. But clearly since that update your loan mix has changed fairly dramatically; and at the same time underwriting standards have tightened meaningfully.

From what I recall, I believe the through-the-cycle charge-off rate at that time that was implied was somewhere in the neighborhood of 120 bps. And clearly it's going to be lower than that going forward, but I was hoping you could give us an update, maybe some updated guidance on where you think that through-the-cycle and that charge-off rate will likely end up.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think if you look at the charge-offs, the key is that -- when you really think about the broad constitution of $1.3 billion, if you remove the recoveries, but some range -- you've got to look at the card business. And what changed since that time is we have changed our position in the card business fairly dramatically with the sale of some international portfolios and even how we have approached the US just based on the dynamics of the card business.

The good news is the card business is starting to grow in terms of balances. And going back to an earlier question, we got rid of the non-core aspects and now you're seeing the core start to come through. 1.1 million new cards; people are using the card more; and the balance is growing.

So I think that if you just think about that, that number is going to be -- is today and will be the dominant part of the charge-off question. And you should think that that $90 billion, $100-billion-ish in balances as you look forward you would expect that to grow, but not to change itself dramatically -- not for us to change it dramatically in terms of position on our balance sheet, because we need to keep that book balanced. Because it has higher charge-offs in a period of unemployment levels.

So I would say if you went back and looked at that, and that is the biggest core adjustment between the two items. And then -- but the core -- the counter to that is if you look at the appendix pages and see the charge-offs on the mortgage business, in the first mortgage business you had recoveries. But if you look at the home equity side you still have a charge-off rate which, based on the underwriting criteria, the stuff going on would be much higher.

So we had a couple hundred million dollars in quarterly charge-offs that you can see on page 21. So we would expect to see improvement in that from where we are.

But I would say the card business is about as good as -- is getting very strong. You ought to see a little bit of help in home equities. You're going to have a reversal from the recoveries on the first mortgage loans, but it is a fundamentally different level because we've mixed the balance sheet differently on purpose.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay, that's great. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. Going back to your LAS costs, excluding litigation, where you mentioned that it's probably -- to get to that $1.1 billion target is going to take another quarter or two. What should we be watching?

And how long do you think that LAS expenses are going to move to become nonmaterial, I guess is another way to say it? Can you give us things, what we should be tracking?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. The first thing -- I want to be clear, Paul -- that getting to the $1.1 billion is moved back -- may be moved back one quarter, not two.

PAUL MILLER: I'm sorry.

BRUCE THOMPSON : So we're looking at one quarter. The second, though, the biggest item that really relates to the trajectory of LAS expenses is your number of 60-plus-day delinquent loans. Because the cost to service that is many multiples what the cost of servicing a current loan is.

So as you go forward, we have full implementation of the national mortgage settlement effective September 30. That will be a big benchmark.

Then as you go beyond then, on a, as we've always said, a one- to two-quarter lag, you will see expenses trend down as your number of 60-plus-day delinquent loans trend down. And as those trend down you need less people as well as a variety of other expenses. So that is the key metric to watch.

And as it relates to just how long that's going to continue, I would not expect that we get down to the level of what should be a recurring number of 60-plus-day delinquents until probably the end of 2015 or the first part of 2016. So as it relates to continued expense leverage, we would expect to see upside in that business probably all the way through the end of 2016 as it relates to driving expense down.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Paul, we've got work to do, in a sense. If you go back, I think, and if you looked at the fourth quarter of 2012, it was about $3.1 billion; the fourth quarter of 2013 I think it was $2.1 billion, Bruce; and then originally we said higher, then we brought it down to $1.1 billion, and now think that it's somewhere a little higher than that.

But that's the broad move, and the question is: How do you keep going on that? And that is really going to be, as Bruce said, the number of 60-plus delinquent loans, which allows you to release people.

But we are also getting a condition that we have now got the place stabilized enough behind us that we can start to invest in technology, what will add a level of improvement that we haven't been able to invest in, where we just had to get the work done.

So we expect there is systems deployment in that business as we move into the middle of 2015, into 2016, and we expect consolidations of physical plants and things like that, which will add to the expense leverage, but we haven't been able to do that as much yet just because of just the massive amount of work that had to take place.

So there is still a lot of work ahead of the team, but if you put it in a context of $2-billion-ish per quarter and expense reduction across eight quarters, a lot of work has been done, too.

PAUL MILLER: And just a follow-up. You talked about you do have another MSR sale. I don't know how material that is. But right now there has not been a lot of transfer of MSRs due to various -- well, Lawsky, up in New York, questioning a lot of the stuff that other companies are doing.

Is that -- can that interfere with the sale? Or you think you can sell the MSR without the headline risk of Lawsky?

BRUCE THOMPSON : The MSR sale that I referenced that will happen in the second half of the year, in the context of what we've done is relatively small. It's just that the delinquency content associated with that sale is high, so it's material from that perspective. But from an overall size perspective it's not material.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, guys. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thanks. I wanted to ask you a couple questions. First off, you've been harvesting about $400 million worth of gains out of the debt portfolio. Is that in the sense of trying to minimize your AOCI risk when rates do go up, as you're shortening the portfolio? Or just wanted to think about your strategy; because that's been a pretty consistent flow through over the last year.

BRUCE THOMPSON : As you look at those gains, we are committed to not -- as we continue to see liquidity build, not taking incremental OCI risk, as I referenced. So over the last year, even as the securities portfolio has grown, we have managed to keep the OCI risk from an absolute dollar perspective relatively flat.

As you see markets move up and down, obviously selling longer-duration securities as you have growth in the securities portfolio is part of that strategy.

MARTY MOSBY: So I just want to make sure that the gains are just an outflow of that overall strategy that you had talked about.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes. You are exactly correct.

MARTY MOSBY: Okay. When you look at the Consumer and Business Bank , you have a considerable amount more in deposits than you really have in loans, which to me seems a little bit more skewed than what you would normally expect. How do you strategically think you can utilize that balance sheet funding over time?

Or what are some of the initiatives that you are doing? Because you should be able to penetrate that customer base with more lending.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Yes. We should be able to penetrate them with more lending. So that's -- if you look on page 17 it is -- or 18, excuse me -- you can see the growth in card originations, the growth in home equity originations, which go on the balance sheet, that -- as Bruce talked about early, we're putting about half, broadly stated, of the originations and mortgages are going on the balance sheet.

In the Business Banking segment, which is a small part of our Commercial Banking segment geared to the $50 million and under revenue companies, we're actually starting to see net loan growth the first time in a lot of times, as we ran off some non-core portfolios.

So that's the core opportunity in the franchise, is to continue to originate credit to the core customer base. There's lots of opportunity there, but you can see us making progress against it each quarter.

I think on a broader context you've got to think about these businesses and how they mix together. So in every company's retail business it's an excess deposit generator, just by the very nature of it. And not only is it fund the loans of the consumer customers, but also provides the funding for the rest of the franchise.

So I think you have to keep that broader context. And that is why we invest -- going to your first question -- in mortgages in securities to, for lack of a better term, get the value out of those deposits for the shareholder.

BRUCE THOMPSON : The other point that I just want to mention is that historically, if you look at the front-end lending in Consumer Real Estate that we've done, from a segment perspective that Consumer Real Estate lending on a first mortgage basis, it shows up in the balance sheet in All Other. So you can't assume that those deposits that you see within page 9 -- a lot of the loans that they do for our customers are reflected in the All Other segment.

MARTY MOSBY: Then in the mortgage segment, the CRES, you're still, if you take out the litigation, generating about a $700 million negative loss in the sense of your just pretax pre-prevision between the revenues and expenses. You're talking about bringing down the Legacy Assets & Servicing expenses. But what is the timetable in your mind that would be reasonable to think of closing that $700 million gap?

BRUCE THOMPSON : A couple things. The first is within Consumer Real Estate Services, if we look at the Home Loans business on the front end, we talked about how we saw during the quarter that we increased both front-end originations as well as took down expense. So Q1 to Q2 we saw about a $100 million improvement on the front end of the business that's reflected in Consumer Real Estate Services.

And as it relates to the $700 million number that you quoted, we obviously relative to the guidance have $300 million of expense to get out of that business over the next 90 days. And then as we have talked about earlier on the call, we've got work to do to continue to drive that down significantly in both 2015 and the first part of 2016. And that is clearly one of the highest priorities we have within the Company.

MARTY MOSBY: Just lastly -- and thanks for letting me ask you a few questions. Because if you're looking at valuation of your servicing portfolio, it dropped off to 82 basis points this quarter, which seems relatively low as the duration of that portfolio is extending.

I know interest rates came back, so the models force you to write it back down. But when you're looking at the prepayment speeds and the refinancing behavior, it seems like eventually that there is some value as that portfolio lasts a lot longer than the model assumes at this point.

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think your point -- the value and the fact that on a basis point basis it came down was reflective of the lower rates that we saw at the end of the second quarter relative to the end of the first quarter. And you're right; at a point in time when rates start to move out, you would expect that MSR to extend and for there to be value there.

But we do not -- I want to emphasize, we look to manage the MSR risk as part of the overall strategy and are managing that to have it be a flat book.

MARTY MOSBY: While from an interest rate standpoint I understand that, it just seems like the models have assumed a lot faster prepayments than we really actually experience, which eventually has to true up.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : At the end of the day, it comes down to what the customer does. You're exactly right.

MARTY MOSBY: All right, thanks.

OPERATOR: Matt Burnell , Wells Fargo .

MATT BURNELL , ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES : The questions have been asked and answered. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi. A couple follow-ups. First on the deposit beta, I appreciate you giving us the color, for every 100 basis point increase it would help by $3.4 billion. You describe the deposit base. But what is the actual deposit beta that you use to come up with the $3.4 billion benefit?

BRUCE THOMPSON : We do not quote, Mike, the actual deposit beta. We obviously go back and look at historical data. Our assumption is, as it relates to pass-through rates, as far as how much of the first 100 basis points that has to get passed along, we're in the 40% area, with respect to that.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, 40% for the first 100?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Correct.

MIKE MAYO: All right. I think that's in the ballpark of one of your large peers, but below some others. Is the reason that would be below others just because it's a lot of branch-based deposits?

BRUCE THOMPSON : You're exactly correct. If we go back and look at what it's been throughout time, at points where arguably we don't have the competitive position now, we look at a lot of historical data to come up with that number.

MIKE MAYO: As it relates to expenses, you've achieved 90% of the $8 billion New BAC savings. I see the branches are 5,023; and I think you said you wanted to be around 5,000 branches. So if I heard you right, I think you're going from a period of rightsizing to growth. Is that a fair characterization?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : We've been growing underlying activity, if you look at some of the statistics in the back [thing throughout], Mike. But you're right; if you go back a couple years ago, we started New BAC. We were running $15-and-odd-billion in core expenses; now we're running $13-odd-billion, and so we're largely getting there.

The question then is: Now, how do you hold it there in an economic environment which is lower growth than traditionally expected in the United States? And that is going to take constant vigilance on our part.

But during that whole time period we have invested literally thousands and thousands of people into the sales side and stuff to drive that growth. And we will continue to do that. The question is: How do you balance that investment rating?

BRUCE THOMPSON : And I just, Mike, before -- I just want -- achieving the balance of the $2 billion in quarterly New BAC savings in the fourth quarter is not dependent on future branch sales. So I just want to make sure that that there is not an assumed linkage there.

MIKE MAYO: Are you reallocating some of the people assigned to New BAC to other areas? It seems like you could dismantle that project group, so to speak.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : It's not a big project. I mean this is done by the people running the businesses. It's just committed plans that we did.

This wasn't -- it's not a huge project group that actually accomplishes it. It's done by whoever runs each business, each function.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. As it relates to loan paydowns, Bruce, you mentioned that some bank loans declined as customers went to the capital markets. In a way, a type of disintermediation from the bank.

But can you elaborate on that? Are you still seeing that this quarter? Do you think that was a one-off event, or is that something we should watch out for?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Our sense is, from what we saw during the quarter, it was more a one-off event. They were a couple loans that were for acquisition-related purposes, that people then went out and refinanced. So it was just a little bit of an anomaly that we saw in the second quarter.

And if you look at just the attractiveness that the capital markets have been, you would expect that to largely be over. But every now and then, when you deal with large, multinational companies where some of the loan holds are a little bit higher, you can have those one-time events where that happens.

And we had a little bit of that in the second quarter. It's not something we would expect to recur.

MIKE MAYO: What I'm getting to is, do you guys think this is an inflection point for loan growth? I can find one of your large peers who implied that it is; and I can find a large regional bank who says it's not.

Where do you fall out on the spectrum? You said, Brian, that middle-market utilization was up ever so slightly. Can you just give us that utilization number and where you stand?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Bruce gave it to you earlier, but I'll have him do it again.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. The middle-market utilization rate was 37%-plus at the end of the first quarter and was up about almost 1% to be mid-38%. Which I don't think in and of itself is not material, but it does seem that people are a little bit more willing to access their revolving credits.

At the same time, practically speaking you're not going to tend to see loan growth that is dramatically higher than the rate at which the overall economy is growing. So clearly, as Brian alluded to in his opening comments, we did see added an economy that improved in the second quarter relative to the first quarter. And on the Commercial side, our loan growth is going to tend to mirror or be a little bit above what we see in the macro-economy.

MIKE MAYO: So do you think this is an inflection point for loan growth? Or is that an answer you would rather not delve into?

BRUCE THOMPSON : We have seen -- we are seeing signs of improvement. I'm not sure I'd go as far as saying it's an inflection point.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. At the Annual Meeting, the clock ran out on me before I could ask one question. Very simple. What are your financial targets with and without higher interest rates?

BRUCE THOMPSON : We've been pretty consistent if we go back, I believe, Mike, to the third- or fourth-quarter earnings call, that as we look out to and as we look at and embedded in our models a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve, that we're looking at that point with a tangible common equity ratio of 7%, a return on asset of 1%, to be at a 14% return on tangible common equity.

As you get into the -- and you don't see that rate environment until 2016. And if you look at those metrics and back out what we have said 100 basis points is worth to us on a parallel shift, you get a sense for what we need to get to, ex- the 100 basis point move.

MIKE MAYO: I'm sorry. So without the 100 basis point shift, the target for ROA and ROTCE is what?

BRUCE THOMPSON : It's going to be roughly $3.3 billion or $3.4 billion pretax.

And at $0.63, it's $2 billion less, which on roughly $140 billion of tangible common equity is going to be about 20 basis points less on assets at that point.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Then last question. As it relates to Citigroup 's settlement with the DOJ for MBS securitizations and CDOs, you had quite a bit more in MBS securitizations and CDO structuring; and so how can we think about this number and the amount of reserves that you have? I read one press article that you were willing to offer $12 billion and the DOJ wanted $17 billion.

I know you can't go into too much detail on this. But can you just give us a framework for how you view resolving this?

I mean, on the one hand, you could argue maybe you shouldn't pay hardly anything because you bought a lot of these entities that created these deals, and you're just punishing the new shareholders. And on the other hand, if you say that you had 10 times the level of some of this MBS activity, it could be a huge number. So how should we think about that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : As you said, Mike, I think we can't discuss that. You'd get a rendition of all the different criteria that people have written about.

But I think that this quarter we were able to put away the AIG case, which if you remember back in 2011 a lot of people said was worth a lot more money for $650 million. So we will continue to figure out what we can get put behind us at reasonable cost to our shareholders. We just can't talk about details that much.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Well, good job with the AIG . I was one of those people who thought it was going to be more, and it wasn't. But that's fine.

I will take any guidance I can get on the legal costs ahead. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: David Hilder , Drexel Hamilton.

DAVID HILDER , ANALYST, DREXEL HAMILTON: Thanks. Most of my questions have been answered. Just on the AIG settlement, I actually thought AIG was the only remaining objector. Are there others?

BRUCE THOMPSON : There are several other objectors that have not been as vocal. And as I said, we will have to see where it goes with them dropping out.

DAVID HILDER : AIG has agreed to dismiss all its claims -- or its objections, I should say?

BRUCE THOMPSON : That's correct.

DAVID HILDER : Okay. Great.

BRUCE THOMPSON : It's part of the settlement agreement.

DAVID HILDER : Great. Thanks very much.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Great. Super. Well, I think we're through all the questions, so thanks a lot for joining us and we will look forward to talking next quarter.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Thank you.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference. You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140718ea7g001e1
  


 HD
 Q1  2014  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
15,614 words
   PD
16 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's program. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Lee McEntire . Please go ahead.

LEE MCENTIRE , SVP, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Thank you. Good morning. Thanks for joining us on the web as well as the phone this morning.

Before I turn the call over to the CEO, Brian Moynihan , and CFO, Bruce Thompson , let me just say that we may make some forward-looking statements. For details on those, I will refer you to our -- page 24 and 25 in our earnings deck material, on either the website or our SEC filings. And with that I will turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN , CEO, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : Thank you, Lee. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to review the first-quarter results.

As you can see from our numbers we report a loss this quarter. That lost reflects the cost of resolving more of our legacy mortgage issues as well as adding reserves primarily for previously disclosed legacy mortgage related matters.

As disappointed as we are in the bottom line results, we are pleased to report that the businesses reported earnings at a level that allow us to substantially offset these losses. And also at the same time, we are able to still grow and improve our Basel III standardized regulatory capital ratio during the quarter.

Bruce will take you through the particulars of our results. But first I wanted to spend a couple of minutes looking at the progress we continue to make across the customer groups that we serve.

In particular, we added some slides to the appendix on pages 17 and 18, which highlight multiyear trends across our customer groups. Let me just touch on a few of those and connect them to our results.

When you think about our broad consumer franchise for mass-market consumers, affluent and wealthy consumers, as we think about the mass-market group, the strategy in our retail segment has been to lower the cost of service while we improve our customer experience. We do that by continuing to optimize our delivery networks of all types in response to customer behavior changes.

Banking centers and basic teller transactions continue to decline as customers move their business to mobile and online transactions. Yet we still have many millions of visits each week to our branches.

But in the aggregate, our self-service channels of ATM, online and mobile transactions continue to grow. This quarter, more than 10% of all the deposit transactions that consumers make in our Company are now done through mobile devices as people effectively carry a branch in their pocket. This, coupled with other measures, allowed us to reduce our costs in our consumer banking business, 4% from last year's first quarter and allows us to continue to invest in other areas to further improve customer satisfaction and grow sales.

On the preferred side of our consumer business where we serve mass affluent clients, we continue to invest in this group by adding sales specialists. We now have more than 6,500 sales specialists concentrated in the top banking centers. We also increased service associates to drive satisfaction to these clients as well.

The end result when you put all the consumer business together is the segment is organic deposit growth of $23 billion from last year to a total of $535 billion in deposits. On the investment side of this general consumer client base, our Merrill Edge assets grew 21% from last year and when we put the segment together, the earnings in our consumer and business banking business improved 15% year over year to nearly $1.7 billion this quarter.

As we move through the wealthy part of our consumer client base, in our wealth management business with US trust and Merrill Lynch , client balances again grew this quarter, now totaled over $2.4 trillion. This has driven record asset management fees in this segment and we are seeing growing demand from these customers for other banking products as loans and deposits continue to increase. This business made over $700 million after tax this quarter and had a pretax margin of more than 25% for the fifth consecutive quarter.

We'll move to our Company side of our house, our commercial and corporate client base, we continue to retain our leadership position in investment banking fees with $1.5 billion in fees received this quarter. We also saw solid loan and deposit flows this quarter in these -- from our commercial customers. These activities drove a 6% increase in revenue in our global banking business from last year.

In our global markets business, which serves investment clients, we earned $1.3 billion after tax as our top-tier sales and trading platforms generated over $4 billion in revenue this quarter. So we put it all together we have leadership positions that we continue to work on in each area and continue to see good momentum across the quarter. We are pleased also to be in a position to return capital to shareholders as we increase dividends in addition to our newly authorized share repurchase program.

As usual, as we see each day each quarter remain focused on executing this strategy that connects the capabilities of this Company with as customers and shareholders for your benefit. With that, I want to turn it over to Bruce to cover the earnings results.

BRUCE THOMPSON , CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. I am going to start on slide 2 and work through the first-quarter results.

We did record a loss of $276 million, or $0.05 per diluted share this quarter. Driving the loss during the quarter was litigation expense of $6 billion, which cost us roughly $0.40 a share during the quarter. We recorded $3.6 billion in litigation expense for the previously announced FHFA settlement and we recorded another $2.4 billion primarily associated with the increase in reserves for previously disclosed legacy mortgage related matters.

Revenue during the quarter on an FTE basis was $22.8 billion, which was $1.1 billion higher than the fourth quarter of 2013, but below the $23.4 billion we saw in the first quarter of 2013. On a linked-quarter basis, our revenues benefited from improved sales and trading results and asset management fees and were offset by lower net interest income as well as lower mortgage banking revenue.

Compared to the prior-year period, revenue was down slightly on lower net interest income, mortgage revenue in sales and trading but did benefit from higher asset management fees. Total noninterest expense during the quarter was $22.2 billion, but did include $6 billion of litigation expense as well as $1 billion of retirement eligible incentive costs that we recognize during the first quarter of each year. If we exclude these items from both the first quarter periods for comparability of the underlying trends that we saw within the Company, expenses did improve by $1.2 billion, or 7% and were driven by lower LAS non-litigation costs as well as some of the new BAC improvements that we saw.

Versus the fourth-quarter 2013, the slight increase in noninterest expense reflects increased revenue related compensation in our market business and was partially offset by the decline that we saw in our LAS non-litigation expense reductions. Provision for credit losses was $1 billion during the quarter, an increased $673 million versus the fourth quarter of 2013. In the first quarter this year, we released $379 million from our loan-loss reserves and that compares to a release of $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013.

Before we move off of this slide, let me mention that we had a few other items in the quarter that in the aggregate benefited EPS by about $0.04 a share as higher equity and debt security gains, net DVA and the resolution of tax matters were positives and they were offset in part by the cost of retirement eligible incentives as well as the negative market-related impacts on our net interest income.

One last point on FVO and DVA, this quarter and moving forward, we report the net impact of these two items as one net DVA valuation number for our derivatives and structured liabilities within our global markets business.

On slide 3, you can see our period-end balance sheet increased from the end of 2013 as we grew both cash and securities in light of increasing liquidity requirements in our primary banking subsidiary. Ending loans declined $12 billion led by lower residential mortgages, principally within our discretionary loan portfolio as well as seasonal declines in credit card.

Loans were up in our global banking segment, which I will cover in a bit. Period-end deposits were up $14 billion from the fourth quarter and are up year-over-year by more than $38 billion.

Our tangible common equity ratio declined to 7% due to the increase in liquidity that I mentioned earlier. Tangible book value did increase slightly during the quarter and we repurchased 87 million shares for $1.4 billion, which completed our share repurchase program that we established at this time last year. Following our CCAR result, we announced a new $4 billion share repurchase plan as well as the intention to increase the quarterly common dividend to $0.05 a share in the second quarter of 2014.

We move to slide 4, we look at our capital ratios under Basel III. Recall this is the first period reporting under Basel III transition which became effective January 1 of this year. Under the transition roles, our common equity Tier 1 capital was $151.6 billion, while our risk-weighted assets were $1.28 trillion, which resulted in a ratio of 11.8%.

While there are no comparative reporting periods, we did provide pro forma fourth quarter of 2013 numbers to allow you to see the slight movement up in the ratio during the quarter. We do continue to provide our Basel III numbers on a fully phased-in basis as we have done in prior periods. The numbers in the chart reflect risk-weighted assets under the Standardized Approach with the common equity Tier 1 ratio improving to 9.3% and remaining above our 8.5% proposed minimum requirement in 2019.

If we move to the advanced method, our CET1 ratio was 9.9% and was impacted by an increased level of risk-weighted assets related to operational risk, which were largely offset by reductions in other risk-weighted assets as well as the increase in capital. We move to supplementary leverage ratios, we estimate at the end of the first quarter of 2014, we exceed the recently updated US rules that apply in 2018. Once again, that would mean our bank holding company is above the 5% minimum and our primary banking subsidiaries, BANA and FIA, are both in excess of their 6% minimums.

I also want to remind you that our Tier 1 capital and supplemental leverage ratios will benefit by approximately $2.9 billion in the second quarter of 2014, if we receive shareholder approval to amend our Series T preferred stock. One last item I want to note regarding capital in the first quarter of 2014, it includes the adjustment to capital allocations across our business line.

We included a slide in the appendix that notes that the new allocation. As you look at that, you will see that the primary adjustments were allocating more capital to our global banking business, given the loan growth we have seen in that segment and to a lesser extent, increases in both our global markets as well as our global wealth management business. As a result of these changes, the amount of unallocated capital that tell that the parent declined from $16 billion to $5 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2014.

If we move to slide 5, funding and liquidity, our global excess liquidity sources increased more than $50 billion to a record level of $427 billion as a result of seasonally strong deposit flows as well as some of the bank debt issuance that we did earlier in the quarter. Our total long-term debt of $255 billion was $5 billion higher than the fourth quarter of 2013. These figures do not include the $7.6 billion of debt issuance that settled on April 1 and was executed at more favorable spread than our existing debt footprint.

That issuance has enabled us to maintain our strong excess liquidity position at the parent, despite the cash flows required by both scheduled debt maturities as well as recent litigation settlement. Our time to required funding remain very strong at 35 months with parent company liquidity unchanged at $95 billion.

Moving forward, and as we consider the FHFA settlement, we would expect parent issuance to be below maturities as the focus evolves towards continued yield improvement following the past several years of sizable balance reductions within our debt footprint.

If we move to slide 6 on net interest income, net interest income on a reported FTE basis was $10.3 billion, which was a decline of $700 million from the fourth quarter of 2013. That decline was driven by a swing of roughly $500 million associated with our market-related adjustments, or FAS 91. FAS 91 was approximately $300 million negative in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the $200 million benefit that we saw in the fourth quarter of 2013.

The balance of the decline was largely due to two less interest accrual days in the first quarter of 2014 relative to the fourth quarter of 2013. Our net interest income, if we exclude those market-related adjustments, was $10.6 billion, once again down a little over $200 million from the fourth quarter of 2013. Other drivers in the quarter were lower average consumer balances and yields, which were largely offset by a reduction in long-term debt costs as well as continued declines in our deposit pricing.

As a result of these net interest income impacts, as well as the higher earning assets, the net interest yield, once again adjusting for FAS 91, declined 3 basis points, 2.36% in the first quarter of 2014. As it relates to asset sensitivity in the balance sheet, we continue to remain poised to benefit from higher rates, particularly when the short end of the curve moves up. As we continue to manage our OCI sensitivity, we are also mindful of both liquidity and leverage rules.

Our first-quarter 2014 increase in securities included shorter duration treasury securities instead of mortgage-backed securities and these treasury securities are much more LCR and OCI friendly, but do have lower yields. Given the continued growth that we have seen in our cash balances at central banks as we increase liquidity, we have adjusted our net interest yields to reflect the impact of adding these low yielding cash deposits once again at central banks into earning assets. This had no impact on net interest income but prior-period net interest yields have been adjusted to reflect the change.

Given the added liquidity during the quarter, coupled with the average balance impact of seasonally lower consumer balances, we expect net interest income in the second quarter of 2014 may be slightly lower compared to this quarter's $10.6 billion level, excluding market-related adjustments, before moving up modestly throughout the second half of 2014.

We move to our expense highlights on slide 7, noninterest expense was $22.2 billion in the first quarter of 2014 and once again included a $6 billion charge for litigation expense and a $1 billion cost for our retirement-eligible incentives. As previously mentioned, the $6 billion litigation expense did include the cost of the FHFA settlement as well as $2.4 billion in increased reserves associated with our previously disclosed the legacy mortgage-related matters.

If we exclude the litigation and retirement eligible incentive costs, our total expenses were $15.2 billion and declined $1.2 billion from the first quarter of 2013 driven by lower LAS costs but were up roughly $200 million from the fourth quarter of 2013 on incentives related to improved sales and trading revenue. Legacy assets and servicing costs, ex-litigation of $1.6 billion declined more than $250 million from the fourth quarter of 2013. As you look at that $1.6 billion number, the savings we generated during the quarter were 40% of our targeted quarterly reductions that we have communicated to you previously.

We continue to make progress on cost savings and as a result our expense program targets for both New BAC as well as LAS remain unchanged.

Turning to slide 8, you can see our credit quality continued to improve again. Net charge-offs declined $194 million to $1.4 billion, or a 62 basis points net loss ratio. Delinquencies, a leading indicator of charge-offs, showed improvement again as well, and our first quarter of 2014 provision expense was $1.0 billion and we released approximately $400 million of reserves during the quarter.

Looking forward, we would expect provision expense for the balance of the year to reflect both modest reductions in net charge-offs as well as reserve releases. Let's move to slide 9 and go through the different business segments, starting with consumer and business banking. Net income of nearly $1.7 billion in the first quarter of 2014 was up 15% from the first quarter of 2013.

Lower expenses, higher service charges, a portfolio divestiture gain and lower credit costs all drove that improvement in the first quarter of 2013. Return on allocated capital within the segment remains very strong at 23% this quarter. As we reflect on customer activity during the quarter, mobile banking customers grew 19% from the first quarter of 2013 to 15 million customers and customer deposit transactions using these devices now represent 10% of all transactions.

Average deposits of $535 billion are up organically $23 billion, or 5% compared to the first quarter of 2013 and our rates paid were reduced nearly in half to 7 basis points. Our brokerage assets surpassed $100 billion in the quarter and are up 21% year-over-year with the growth split fairly evenly between both increases in flows as well as valuations within the market.

Our card issuance remains strong at 1 million new accounts in the first quarter of 2014, but our end-of-period balances are down seasonally from the fourth quarter of 2013. Importantly, our risk-adjusted margin remained above 9%. Overall, our credit quality within the segment remains strong as our net charge-offs declined versus both the linked-quarter period as well as the year-ago period.

Provision expense was $812 million during the quarter. Net charge-offs improved $360 million from the year-ago quarter, and we released $69 million in reserves this quarter, which is $220 million less than the first quarter of last year and down $426 million from the fourth quarter of 2013.

One litigation item to note before we move off the consumer results is the resolution we reached last week with the CFTB and the OCC on issues related to the marketing, sale and billing of credit card debt cancellation and ID theft protection products. This settlement included cash payments to both regulators and provides for redress to customers and was covered by reserves that had been established in prior periods.

We move to slide 10, consumer real estate services, the higher loss in the quarter was driven by $5.8 billion of litigation within the segment. Let's first focus on the reported subsegment of home loans where we record the origination of consumer real estate.

Our first mortgage retail originations of $8.9 billion were down 24% from the fourth quarter of 2013, in line with overall market demand and drove a 32% reduction in core production revenue as margins held relatively steady compared to the fourth quarter of 2013. We continued to reduce production staffing levels in the quarter, consistent with the volumes that we are seeing, but those expenses don't flow through the P&L immediately.

Home equity originations of $2 billion were up from the fourth quarter of 2013 level. If we move to legacy assets and servicing subsegment, once again the driver here is the previously mentioned litigation costs. On litigation costs you saw the press release on March 26 regarding our settlement with FHFA, which identified the $6.3 billion payment and led to the $3.6 billion litigation charge this quarter.

We are obviously pleased to have this matter put behind us. Within our earnings release we also included information regarding a settlement with FGIC and related parties on involved securitization trusts which resolves all outstanding litigation in rep and warranty claims on second lien loans for approximately $900 million to $950 million, depending on the final outcome of two of the remaining trusts -- two of the nine remaining trusts, excuse me.

This settlement was covered by reserves that we had established in previous periods. The primary revenue component within the LAS subsegment, servicing revenue, declined $205 million versus the fourth quarter as the size of our servicing portfolio continues to decline as it aligns with our market share of production. And we also had less favorable MSR net hedge performance during the quarter.

Also impacting revenue during the quarter was rep and warrant expense of $178 million, which increased by roughly $100 million from the fourth quarter of 2013, given the settlement during the quarter with FHFA. From a cost of servicing perspective, our 60-plus day delinquent loans were reduced by 15% to 277,000 units at the end of the first quarter of 2014. And once again, our LAS expense, ex-litigation, declined $262 million to $1.6 billion.

We move to slide 11, global wealth and investment management, during the quarter, we achieved record revenue of $4.5 billion, which was up 3% from the first quarter of 2013 and 2% from the fourth quarter of 2013. The improvement was driven by record asset management fees during the quarter.

Net income of $729 million was slightly higher than the first quarter of 2013, but was down modestly from the fourth quarter of 2013 as expense was 3% higher than both periods. Expense increased compared to both periods on higher revenue-related incentives increased volume-related costs as well as certain investments in technology. Notwithstanding those increases, our pretax margin remains strong, north of 25% for the fifth consecutive quarter.

Our return on allocated capital was 25% but declined from prior period as the relative earnings stability was coupled with the increased capital allocations that I mentioned previously. Client engagement remains strong in the markets providing additional tailwind as our client balances increased $30 billion from the year-end 2013 to $2.4 trillion.

Long-term AUM flows of $17.4 billion for the quarter were the second highest in our Company's history. Ending client loan balances of $120 billion reached record levels and are up 9% year over year.

One other highlight I would like to mention is the core dated referral efforts that we are seeing across wealth management and the banking groups as we funded more than 300 Institutional Retirement plans worth more than $2.4 billion in client assets during the quarter.

On slide 12, global banking, earnings during the quarter were $1.24 billion. Earnings compared to the first quarter of 2013 show a 6% improvement in revenue that were offset by higher expense.

Investment banking fees for the quarter were $1.54 billion, consistent with what we saw during the first quarter of 2013, but 11% lower than the record level that we saw during the fourth quarter of 2013. We do believe for the second consecutive quarter this would rank us as a global leader in investment banking fees.

The remaining revenue drivers in this business, treasury services and business lending, show very positive trends year-over-year across both our commercial as well as our corporate client base. You can see some of these metrics on page 26 of the supplemental information that we provide to you.

Provision was up $116 million from the first quarter of 2013, driven by additions to our loan-loss reserves. The first quarter of 2014 included a build of $282 million versus a build of $81 million in the first quarter of 2013 and $434 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.

The expense increase in the quarter of $186 million on a year-over-year basis relates to investments in technology for our global treasury services and lending platforms, additional client facing personnel and to a lesser degree, some litigation that we saw during the quarter within this segment. We look at the balance sheet, average loans are up $27.4 billion, or 11% compared to the first quarter of 2013 and are up $2.6 billion compared to the fourth quarter of 2013. The overall pace of growth that we are seeing has slowed from the past few quarters as pricing for loans is quite competitive and we have chosen returns over growth in certain cases.

Return on allocated capital was 16% and is down from prior periods reflecting stable earnings that were more than offset by a 35% increase in allocated capital.

We switch to global markets on slide 13, excluding net DVA, we earned $1.24 billion in the first quarter, which is in line with the first quarter of 2013 and up $893 million from the fourth quarter of 2013. Ex-DVA, sales and trading revenue was $4.1 billion, 1% lower than the first quarter of 2013, but 37% higher than the fourth quarter of 2013.

Our FICC sales and trading revenue was down 2% compared to the first quarter of 2013, but we would note it would be down 15% after adjusting for a monoline write-down that we incurred in the first quarter of 2013. Our rates and currencies experienced declines for market volumes and lower volatility during the quarter. I would note that our FICC business did increase 42% over the fourth quarter of 2013.

Equity sales and trading flat with the first quarter of 2013 and up 28% from the fourth quarter of 2013. Expenses were stable compared to the first quarter of 2013 and when we compare expenses to the fourth quarter of 2013, they increased $453 million on higher revenue-related expenses, after excluding litigation of $655 million that we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013 within this segment.

Our trading-related assets, on average, remain flat at $440 billion on a linked-quarter basis. Our return on allocated capital during the quarter was 16%, even after we consider a 13% increase in allocated capital.

On slide 14 we show all other. Revenue was down $193 million from the fourth quarter of 2013 on lower net interest income, which was driven by the swing in market-related adjustments that I discussed earlier and was partially offset by higher equity investment gains which were driven by the final monetization of an investment. First-quarter 2014 expense includes the retirement-eligible incentive costs which are in line with last year but still drive the expense variance compared to the fourth quarter of 2013, and was partially offset by lower litigation costs.

Provision benefit in the quarter was relatively flat to the fourth quarter of 2013 but did improve $385 million from the first quarter of 2013. Net charge-offs of $206 million improved $88 million from the fourth quarter of 2013, and $279 million in the first quarter of 2013.

Our first quarter of 2014 results in this segment included $341 million reserve release compared to a release of $482 million in the fourth quarter and $235 million in the first quarter of 2013. During the quarter, our effective tax rate was impacted by our loss position. For the rest of 2014, we would expect an effective tax rate of approximately 31% absent any unusual items.

We make a few comments before we open it up for questions. We obviously don't like to report a loss to shareholders but this quarter we achieved resolution of rulings around significant legacy matters -- FHFA, FGIC, CFTB and OCC as well as the positive court ruling on Bank of New York Mellon private-label securities matters, which is under appeal just to name a few.

We established additional reserves to help address previously disclosed mortgage-related issues and we did that and still built our already strong Basel III standardized capital ratio. Our supplemental leverage ratios at both parent and banks are compliant well in advance of their 2018 implementation dates under the more stringent new rules.

Our liquidity is at record levels and we are well positioned to meet the new LCR requirements. Asset quality is strong and improving. Our expense programs show good progress and most importantly, four of our five operating segments reported revenue and earnings that were essentially flat or higher than the prior year.

In our fifth segment, legacy assets & servicing, we made progress on legacy issues. We drove down 60 day plus delinquent loans and our costs, excluding litigation, declined $1 billion from last year's first quarter.

So as we move into the second quarter of this year, we feel that we are better positioned than we were coming into 2014. And with that, we will go ahead and open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley .

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Hi, good morning. A couple of questions. One on the litigation reserve build that you did in the quarter, you mentioned that the FGIC and the trust settlement were fully reserved for. So that means that none of the $2.4 billion increase in reserves in 1Q that you called out was for that settlement?

BRUCE THOMPSON : That's correct, Betsy. As we said, substantially all of the $2.4 billion related to a build in our litigation reserves for matters that we have disclosed previously.

BETSY GRASECK: So I guess I am just wondering, if you could give us a sense or color as to what you are referring to there. It doesn't look like that went to the monolines or the PLS so is this something that is broadly mortgage related or is it something else? Given that it is such a large reserve build, does it suggest that there is another settlement on the near term?

BRUCE THOMPSON : You bring up a good point. It does not relate to the previously announced Article 77. It does not relate to the remaining monoline exposure, given that we settled the FGIC closure within the context of our reserve level, so it relates to other mortgage-related matters outside of those that we have disclosed previously.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay.

BRUCE THOMPSON : And I wouldn't interpret or necessarily assume that the build in the reserves suggest a settlement is eminent.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Just moving to capital, on Basel III, you gave us some great information on the transitional to the fully phased in walk there in the appendix.

I guess I am just wondering, you did narrow the gap between standardized and advanced by 30 bps. Could you run through how you did that in the quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure, I think if you -- obviously, the numerator in both is the same and we saw during the quarter -- we saw improvements in OCI in the numerator and we saw some significant improvements in our threshold deductions. That numerator applies to both standardized as well as the advanced approaches.

If you look at the standardized risk-weighted assets, the big driver down there, related to the reductions in our consumer real estate, both first mortgage as well as home-equity, is those portfolios reduced from longer dated assets. In addition, you had the seasonal decline within the card portfolio that helped, and that was moderated a little bit by the growth that we saw in commercial loans.

So I think as you look at that Basel III standardized ratio, what was driving risk-weighted assets were actual reductions in exposure. There wasn't anything related to the models or assumptions that factored into that.

If you move over to the advanced approach, where we reported at 9.9%, which was down a touch, the biggest change and we continue to work with and look to refine and take guidance that we are getting with respect to operational risk, the operational risk-weighted assets during the quarter as we continue to refine that, we're up about $50 billion and now represents almost 25% of our overall Basel III advanced risk-weighted assets. And I think as you look at relative to our peers, brings us -- puts us in line with where our peers are with that and we'll continue to refine and work through that in the future.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, that's great. Thanks for the color. Just lastly on expenses.

You did show a nice reduction in core expenses. Could you speak to some of the things that have been hitting the headlines recently? Cuts in global markets, 5%, is this accurate?

Is it part of New BAC, or is it more a normal course expense management? And then the branches are down 10% over the last two years. How much more optimization is there?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I'm sorry, Betsy, I missed the first part of your question on --

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : On the global markets, the trimming that we did was announced as sort of the annual trimming that goes on. You remember we always are adding -- and we had, frankly, record hiring from schools this year coming in so we always are adjusting the head count to keep the expenses in line based on -- we are going to have a lot of new people joining us here as we get to the summer that we have already made offers to, and it is kind of the general vetting.

So I wouldn't put that as anything other than day-to-day expense management and also just the natural turnover in the business. The second part, Bruce?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, on branch optimization as we look at that, and I think you really get a sense for the progress within branch optimization when you flip to the Consumer and Business Banking segment. A chunk of that relates to new BAC, and you can see over the course of 12 months as we have taken the branches down by about 300 units, that has contributed to on a year-over-year basis the $180 million of expenses that we saw during the quarter.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Betsy, so this is a long-term strategy, so whether it is New BAC or not, we will continue to optimize the platform. And what we show you back in the appendix slide is the mobile banking growth is pretty strong. So at the end of the day, if you look at it across the last 5 or 6 years we have more customers, a lot more deposits and a lot less cost structure as we reposition to meet the customers' changing uses of first computers then phones and the enhanced effect of the ATMs.

So you should expect those techniques to continue. But be that as it may, we also still have 7, 7.5 million people come in our branches every week that are great opportunities to engage with customers that we also continue to see strong foot traffic. So we are manning this to meet those needs from both the people who come into the branch and the people who use the automated technique. And that is the challenge as we go forward.

I think we have done a pretty good job of bringing them down and keeping the expenses moving with the customer flow.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, but from here this branch level you think holds or you still have more work to do on pulling it down?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : We will adjust -- every month they keep looking at it and making adjustments as they look over multiple years in the future, but if you remember originally we said we would get around 5,000 out of New BAC. That was kind of a number we gave you and we are there.

But also remember that what you define as a branch will change. We have these express branch formats where there are salespeople plus what we call ATAs, which are ATM machines that you can actually pull up -- work with tellers directly. It allows you to cash checks to penny, authenticate without your card to stick into the machine, the same things you do with a regular teller, and so it is all important to us.

I think focusing on the numbers as opposed to the overall cost of the structure, all of the parts is and that is what I focus on. If you look at that, we continue to drive that down, taking all the costs of the whole infrastructure relative to the deposit base, that is down from -- it is down near 200 basis points.

BETSY GRASECK: Got it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr , ISI.

GLENN SCHORR , ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Thanks very much. Looking for a quick comment on the overall loan picture.

There is always a lot of puts and takes, so the commercial side grew by 8% year over year. The consumer shrunk by 4.7%.

A lot of that is run off. So can you just give a general comment on how you are feeling about loan growth, and then weave in there your commentary on the mortgage origination pipeline being up 23% in the first quarter. Thank you.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. The first is -- why don't we start -- if you start with the -- within the global banking segment, you saw loans relative to year end up about $2.5 billion and up more significantly than on a year-over-year basis.

We say that we continue to see good loan demand within the commercial space. It is across both C&I as well as real estate, so we feel good about that.

But as I did note that during the quarter, there were certain opportunities and things that we looked at that we did not do in that we very much have a focus not just on growing the loans but the returns that is generated from those loans. And going forward, you should expect to see us grow loans but we are going to be prudent and it needs to be at returns that makes sense and for those customers that we have good relationships with.

If you move to the consumer side, as I did note, and you can see it when you look within the CSDB segment, that the majority of the loan reduction we saw in consumer was really three things. It was the payoff of first mortgage loans that were held for investment purpose within the investment portfolio; it was the continued reduction within the home equity business where we have about $3.5 billion of home equity loans that repay each quarter. Those tend to be older vintages, and we get back to the home equities that we are doing when I finish, and then the third was the overall card balances were down about $4 billion, which on a seasonal basis is what we would expect and we would look to see those card balances stabilize as we go throughout 2014.

As it relates to new activity, we did note that the pipeline is up about 23%. What we saw was not materially different than others in the first month, two months of the quarter.

Applications in volume were down with some of the weather, but we did see a pickup in that activity which led to, obviously, off of a low base, a 23% increase in the pipeline as we go into the second quarter. The other thing I would reference is if you look back, you can see that we have been able to increase and move up what we are doing on the home equity fronts where we have $2 billion of originations during the quarter.

And I would just note from a credit quality perspective and what we are seeing there, those loan to values tend to be in the sixties with FICO scores deep into the 700s. So that area is providing an opportunity for us as well.

GLENN SCHORR : And summing it all up, I just -- I don't want to put words in your mouth but if you look at the net of up just 50 basis points for total loans year on year, it just sounds like it is better than that just because of the runoff and I just wanted to make sure that I get that specific comment.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Especially in the consumer business, the runoff affects the overall numbers.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Because remember, we have still got the portfolios that we inherited from acquisitions that they are still running through the system.

GLENN SCHORR : Right. Follow up on the legal, you mentioned the first two were fully reserved for.

The 2.4 adds to the reserve, where are we now in terms of the estimated losses above and beyond what you reserve for? In other words, I would think it could go down as you continue to add for the reserve.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Are you referring to the range of possible loss that we disclose when we put the Q out?

GLENN SCHORR : Correct.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, I think we are working through and refining that. We don't put that out with earnings, we put it out when we file the 10-Q.

But to your point, I don't think there is -- we obviously made progress with getting FHFA put behind us as well as FGIC and some other related matters. And we are working through where exactly that range of possible loss comes out, but hear your point.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay, appreciate it. And then last one on slide, I think it is 14.

Just curious, the equity investment income, what is driving that? It seems to have a nice steady and upward trending slope.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, as we noted in the script, that we did complete the final monetization of an investment that was a decent chunk of that. So I would not expect to see those revenues at those levels going forward.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay, that's good for me. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jonathan McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JONATHAN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, Bruce, hi, I was wondering if -- just want to understand the dynamic of the net interest income outlook I guess in the second quarter. It is the increase in lower yielding liquidity on an average basis and that is going to push the NRI down a little bit.

That overwhelms the day count. Is that what is happening in the second quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, keep in mind, you only pick up one day, Q1 to Q2, but I think you have a couple things, as I mentioned. You've got relative to the first quarter, you do have lower card balances given the seasonal bump that you see at year end that you carry a fair bit of during the first quarter.

We did build up throughout the first quarter a significant amount of liquidity anticipation of those rules. That will contribute a little bit to the decline in the second quarter, and then as we solve for that, you would expect to see that move up, so nothing structural.

We do have some seasonal stuff in the markets business that we do, that depresses things that touch in the second quarter. So as we said, it is obviously early in the quarter, but we are expecting a slight decline but then we would expect the trajectory to get back to the levels that we have previously talked about.

JONATHAN MCDONALD: Okay, and what is helping it grind higher beyond the second quarter, Bruce? Just as a reminder, what helps it grow in the third and fourth quarter and beyond?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. I think, as you look at it, one of the things that we continue to work through is that the debt footprint will come down, although more modestly, but what we are seeing is as we look at the levels at which we raised debt going forward, the cost of that has come down significantly. So you have some pick up there.

You obviously have some pick up with some of the loan growth that we are seeing within the commercial space. And we continue to take deposit pricing down as well, although we are down to levels that are harder to get much lower. And I do just want to remind you, John, I know you know this that as we give this guidance, it backs out and it excludes market-related impacts that come out of FAS 91.

JONATHAN MCDONALD: Okay, then on litigation expense, Bruce, with the big reserve build in the settlements this quarter, what is the outlook there? I know it is tough to forecast but should we assume that a few hundred million of litigation expense will persist for the next several quarters?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think, John, I think you have to split between -- we continue to -- and I'd just remind, as you look at the litigation pipeline and you look at where we are, we have obviously gotten through the base rep and warrant with respect to the GSEs. We were able to get through and reach an agreement with FGIC, which is the fourth monoline settlement that we have, and then we are working through and the Article 77 case is going through a judicial process.

So as we continued to reduce the number of outstanding litigation items that we have, that should obviously bode well for what I would characterize as the base litigation expense. That being said, I think we need to be realistic and you saw it this quarter that as it relates to the remaining couple of matters that we have disclosed, it can be lumpy and that it is just very hard to predict.

But as we talked about in the presentation, during the quarter, we did have a pretty significant build as we continued to evaluate those positions as well as the discussions that we have that are parties to the litigation.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : John, I think the simple way -- if you think about things that -- litigation matters that sort of arrived after 2008/2009, the cost of those in the P&L is very modest. If anything it's sort of new -- these costs really relate to the stuff before the crisis and the [Bonner] cleanup.

So your point about what would be the ongoing litigation costs would be much, much lower. But the question is the lumpiness Bruce refers to the transition we have got left on a few of these matters.

JONATHAN MCDONALD: Okay, and then, Bruce, just to clarify the provision commentary that you made, your outlook is for net charge-offs to grind lower modestly, and reserve release to continue, but probably at a smaller level than the 380 we saw this quarter.

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think that is fair, John. It can bounce around in any one quarter, but I think the provision number broadly speaking is in line with what we would expect over the next couple quarters.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : So, John, one of the ways -- if you look at the supplemental material and the pages on the charge-off by product, you have got to remember that there is -- if you look at the credit card charge-offs, in US and domestic, they are down in the -- this quarter it was $700 million and a 3.75% charge-off rate. You're kind of hitting a place where the business is geared to have some amount of charge-offs and it is the way the business works, part of the cost of doing business through the credit costs.

If you look outside that number, that is -- card charge-offs are like 80% of the charge-offs -- or 60%, 70% of charge-offs. And so they are going to be hard to get down a lot more. So there is work to do on mortgage charge-offs, home equity charge-offs, but if you look across the rest of the board, they are in pretty good shape.

JONATHAN MCDONALD: Okay, and last thing for me, just wondering if trading and fixed income in particular, do they have any notable sequential trends in the quarter? Did trading get better in March and early April as rate volatility started to pick up a little bit or anything like that?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I wouldn't highlight any real seasonality of note as it relates to drastic ups or downs throughout the quarter. The one piece that I would say that -- I think generally, rates in foreign exchange given where the market was and the fact that there was not a lot of volatility in the quarter was clearly negatively affected.

And on the positive side, I would say that the overall credit trading businesses, whether it be loans, high-grade bond trading or high-yield bond trading, given market activity levels as well as our position from an underwriting perspective, were very strong during the quarter.

JONATHAN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller , FBR.

THOMAS LETRENT, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Morning. This is actually Thomas LeTrent on behalf of Paul.

Another sort of expense-themed question. There has obviously been an increased amount of regulatory scrutiny on MSR transfers. Can you [stretch] for me a little bit, whether if those transactions got delayed or pushed out if it would impact your ability to meet expense targets or just a little color there?

BRUCE THOMPSON : It's a very good question. What I would point out is, and if you go back to the fourth quarter of 2012, that was when we announced our significant MSR transfers and so as you look at where we are, as it relates to just pure MSR transfers, we are through the significant majority of what we would expect.

We have got some cleanup in sparse smaller ones during the second, third and fourth quarters. We don't have any reason to believe, given they are small and who they are going to, that there will be a problem with the transfer. So we feel, and as it relates to getting to the expense targets with what is left to go, that will not be an issue for us.

THOMAS LETRENT: Okay. That's very helpful. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks. Good morning. I wanted to ask you about just operating leverage and, again, expense progress.

So year-over-year, revenues plus or minus are down $1 billion and if I am looking at slide 7, I am looking at the core expenses were down a few hundred million and that is net of all the New BAC benefits. So can you talk to us about just the push and pull between the net BofA, the new BofA, New BAC reductions and then what cost inflation you are seeing, if any, underneath the core? And then as you look forward, just how we should expect that core line to interject, you know, the $13.6 billion excluding the retirement eligible?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure. Well, let me answer the last part of your question first, which is we would expect the core trajectory to trend down as we go throughout 2014.

When you look at the -- and if you are looking on slide 7 and we compare the $13.8 billion to $13.6 billion, let me just consider and give you a couple numbers that affected that core. During the first quarter of 2014, as we continue to reduce headcount, we incurred over $100 million in severance expense on both an absolute basis as well as a year-over-year basis within those numbers, so you had $100 million to the negative there.

The second thing is, and as we disclosed, we have been investing within corporate banking, cash management salespeople to a lesser extent, capital markets people and some of the technology that goes along with that. And we think as we look going forward we are through a lot of that investment but as I referenced in my comments, I would ask you to flip back up to page 26 because we are seeing the benefit from revenue growth from those investments and we would obviously expect those to moderate going forward.

The other couple things that I would note there is if you look at, within the wealth management business, you need to consider within that area that we did have a $200 million-plus increase in revenue from asset management fees. So there is obviously compensation that goes out with that as well as some of the technology dollars that were spent for our Merrill One project that we have rolled out within the wealth management area.

So I would just say as you look at that $200 million, the benefit from New BAC was clearly on a year-over-year, much more significant from that. But we are investing in the areas where we think and where we are seeing revenue growth. And we would obviously expect those investments, given that they have been made and are generating the revenues that you would expect those to moderate going forward.

KEN USDIN: Thanks, Bruce. And as just a follow-up to that, then, we are going to continue to see improvements to get to that $2 billion New BAC level by mid next year, but given what you anticipate on the revenue side, do you feel that that is enough to get you where you want to go in terms of profitability improvement or is there anything you can contemplate or need to contemplate as far as finding other incremental ways to fund those investments or drive more to the bottom line?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Obviously we continue to look at that and we will continue -- we started after this -- as you know, in 2011, and so if you go back -- I think we had $80 billion-odd expenses when we started this thing and so we had been driving this down year after year after year but that doesn't mean it stops with New BAC. It's just the challenge inherent in the slow growth environment is how to manage the relative investment rate, expense growth rate versus revenue growth rate.

And so that is something we as management continue to have to focus on. But if you think about the $13.6 billion and think about continuing to make some improvement against it and annualize that, add back whatever the $1 billion to the one-time retirement costs and then some litigation, you start to get into levels that we think are consistent with the earnings -- sort of restoring the normalized earnings pool.

The question is -- and you are right, is that we have got to make sure that the investments we make are yielding the revenue benefits and we have got to keep the total expenses overall net. That is what we're up to.

And I think the way to think about that is look at 3,500 more employees, headcount reduction this quarter and you will continue to see that work its way down. That is a leading indicator what is going to happen next quarter because those employees -- that is a spot-to-spot number went out there in the quarter but they are still in the payroll for the quarter.

KEN USDIN: Got it. One last one, just card income and service charges, a lot of other banks have been seeing weakness there, partially weather, partially regulatory, partial pricing changes. Anything that you guys are seeing or anticipate seeing on any of those fronts looking ahead?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : If you think about the longer-term trend there as we had a big change in terms of fee structures in the consumer business broadly going back a few years ago and you kind of came through all that and that affected, what has happened now is if you just look at our card activity, our purchases on our cards are up by 5% or so quarter to -- last year to this quarter -- first quarter last year, fourth quarter this year. So we continue to see better than market growth in the activity levels that the general spending levels and things like that which helps on the interchange.

Once we got off sort of the reductions that were due to the change, interchange rule. And so I think it will keep grinding forward based on just general activity but most of the real downdraft came out in 2011/2012, early 2013 timeframe.

BRUCE THOMPSON : The other point, too, is if you look at within the consumer business we actually saw service charges during the quarter were up about 3% on a year-over-year basis. So some of the card income tends to be seasonally higher in the fourth quarter. It drops in the first quarter then builds backup, but within the consumer space we were pleased with what we saw on the service charge line during the quarter.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : And so if you go back and look at 17, we have been producing from a sort of 700,000 to 800,000 run rate in new cards to 1 million-plus. And those cards are being used as a core card by the customers, and such driving up the pay rate's still high so the balances aren't moving much but the activity underneath is moving.

And we are still replacing some affinity portfolios that we sold and things like that. So our view is that the transactional behavior of our customers continues to grow and will benefit in some of the fee lines too.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. First, just a couple follow-ups. How much of the New BAC savings were achieved by the end of the quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON : You should look at relative to the $2 billion a quarter, we are in the $1.7 billion area.

MIKE MAYO: All right, so you have $300 million per quarter to be achieved by mid-2015?

BRUCE THOMPSON : That's correct.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, and then the LAS savings, you have another $500 million a quarter to be achieved by the end of the year?

BRUCE THOMPSON : That's correct.

MIKE MAYO: All right, so $800 million total, quarterly expense savings we should expect over the next year or so. So should we expect all of that to hit the bottom line?

BRUCE THOMPSON : You should expect it to hit the bottom line with just the one caveat that to the extent that there are revenue-related things that have costs attached to them, that could moderate that reduction. But ultimately, that would be a positive to the pretax income line.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Do you have an efficiency target for the firm? I am just looking at page 3 of the supplement and the efficiency ratio is kind of thrown off by the charges and it has been in the 70%s the last few quarters.

97.68%, I don't think you consider that your core efficiency ratio. But, so what do you consider your core efficiency ratio and where should it be and where do you hope to get -- when do you hope to get there?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think if you go back and look at what we talked about in the fourth quarter, where we talked about where we would like to get to from an ROA, return on tangible common equity, and we talked about once rates starting to move up that as we looked out, if we look out at a couple years, that efficiency ratio should be in the high 50%s.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, so do you have a specific timeframe for that or just when rates go up?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think as we look at it, it is just the point in time that rates are up roughly 100 basis points across the curve. And, obviously, to the extent that we don't see rates move up, we are going to need to run harder on expenses to try to get it to the extent that the rate environment doesn't move up.

MIKE MAYO: Shifting gears, the tax rate excluding the mortgage charge for the first quarter was what?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I believe it was roughly -- it was about 50% -- somewhere between 58% and 60%.

MIKE MAYO: I'm sorry, the tax rate? You said the tax rate going ahead will be 31%. I am just trying to figure out what was the core tax rate for this quarter, excluding the charge?

BRUCE THOMPSON : It would be -- the core tax rate we project out and look out over the years, the core would have been 31%, but you always have a little bit of noise when you -- and obviously it was a pretax loss. But the discrete item always kind of overwhelm things in a low period, but the base rate from which you are starting from is a 31% and it was just a little bit skewed given what we saw from a pretax loss perspective.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. You had record wealth management for the quarter and one of the online brokers recently said that the big brokerage firms are doing better. Do you -- how much do you attribute the record wealth management to the environment versus what you are doing versus it is better to be a big broker?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I am not sure what the context of that is, Mike, but the net flows in the wealth management business were around $11 billion, $12 billion this quarter, which was $16 billion or $17 billion -- nearly $17 billion to $18 billion due to long-term flows and $6 billion of short-term liquidity flows out through net of around $12 billion. If you look in the Merrill Edge platform, which is more akin to the online type of thing, I think we had 80,000-plus new accounts this quarter.

The assets continue to grow; it topped 100 billion daily average trades. Darts are up I think 25% to 30% year-over-year, and so it continues to progress and we continue to see good asset flows there, too. So big, small, large, traditional, all that's sort of blended together, we operated the core consolidated franchise, you are seeing good momentum on both sides.

MIKE MAYO: You are allocating more capital to GWIM as well as global banking and global markets. Is that increased capital allocation due to regulatory capital changes or a deliberate move by you guys to invest more for growth in those segments?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Well, let me just start -- the allocation of capital is how we take the capital that we have at the Company and push it out to the businesses. I think you need to go segment by segment within that, Mike, I think the first is that as you look at the global banking segment and look at the allocation and what we have done, the first is on a year-over-year basis you had average loans up about $30 billion so there were more loan balances against which you need to allocate capital.

The second thing that I would say is as you look at that segment and you consider Basel III standardized ratios, they tend to risk weight almost all commercial loans at 100%, regardless of what the models would suggest they should be risk-weighted at. So I think the combination of the loan growth, along with some of the impacts from regulatory capital led us to increase what we did with respect to global banking.

Within global wealth management, as you go back and refine operational loss models and assign operational risk capital, that was topped up as well as reflecting the fact that within the wealth management business that we have seen loan growth within that segment. So there was additional monies allocated there.

And then as we look at, and just continue to refine and look at both comparables as well as asset mix we thought it was prudent to increase modestly what we saw within global markets. And as I said in my comments, when you consider it in the aggregate and we look at where we are at relative to peers, we have got virtually all of our capital at this point pushed out to the different businesses which is the way it should be.

MIKE MAYO: I agree, so it sounds like it is partly business growth and partly regulatory related and partly a desire simply to have less unallocated capital?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think the last one is what you have got to keep focused on.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, and then lastly, the Bank of New York ruling was good; I did not expect that, but you still had a $6 billion charge this quarter and another $2.4 billion extra charge in the last 15 work days since the FHFA amount was announced. And I know you have had several questions on the call, but what is left as far as potential legal charges because it seems just so lumpy and within just a few weeks you could have another $2.4 billion charge, seemingly out of the blue for some of us. What is left?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think when you look at it, as I commented, I think we give fairly fulsome disclosure in the 10-K as it relates to the matters that are out there. And when you look at the matters and compare where we are now to what is out there, that obviously from the K that FHFA was resolved and that was the $3.6 billion number we mentioned.

You have seen resolutions during the quarter from an Allstate RMBS perspective. You saw resolution of force-placed insurance, you saw CFTB, OCC. And you saw the deal that we completed and announced with FGIC today.

So as you work through and look at those matters, it largely with what's disclosed leaves you with respect to one monoline. And then in addition to the monoline the other remaining legacy mortgage-related matters that we put out in our disclosure.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Autonomous Research.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Thanks very much. Good morning.

Let me just start out by saying on the litigation front I actually thought it was very good that you have provided now for a bunch of the issues that are actually still pretty visible out there, so that is just a thank you for having done that. I have a question for you on the control environment costs.

Some of your competitors, JPMorgan and Citi, have spoken to billion dollar type numbers for increased control environment cost in the wake of CCAR issues over the last few years and obviously all of the heightened scrutiny. I was wondering if you could give us a sense for what your control cost increase has been over the last year or two?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I didn't give you a number. Let me give you a way to think about it.

In our environment, coming out of the extreme issues in 2008 and 2009, we built a lot of personnel and headcount to get after this stuff and we are still finishing up the cleanup. And so if you look in the expense base, a lot of that has been in expense base for a couple of years. And then so if you think about something like our audit team, we doubled the size of our audit team in probably 2010 and it has been held fairly constant against that.

Against the backdrop we probably divested tens of businesses. And the rest of the headcount in the Company has come down fairly dramatically from a high of around 305,000, I think.

So the amount of control environment relative to the total cost structure has gone up. But the raw numbers haven't gone up as dramatically because, frankly, we've put them back, just a lot of men, in the 2010/2011 timeframe.

So, it is our duty to get it right, it is our duty to keep working on it and make sure that we get these things wrestled to the ground. But one of the key ways that we are doing this is by focusing the scope of the Company.

So the force-placed -- or excuse me, the products settlement this quarter, we quit offering those products a while ago, it just took a while with the OCC and the consumer bureau to finish up the negotiations and finish up the rebate. We have been sending money back to customers but we quit offering the product as an example.

And so the idea of narrowing the products set, narrowing the geographic scope of the Company, making the Company a lot less complex; we will always be big, but we make ourselves less complex. But against that, a growing -- a strong growth in the controlled cost in the 2009, 2010, 2011 timeframe and then a flattening of that but relative to a smaller company is actually an increase.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Thanks. That's helpful color, certainly in terms of thinking about the timing. You did allude to some increase in technology investment in GWIM and obviously the margin they are contracted a little bit. Maybe you can give us a little bit of a sense for what this -- I think you alluded to Merrill One?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Well, Merrill One is a new product they brought out and it has been successful. And like anything else, you put the product out there, you spend all the money to put the product together and then the assets come on it.

And so we are feeling good about that tens of billions of dollars of assets that moved to the platform. It is a good platform for customers and for the advisors.

I think more broadly, I talk about technology, if you look at the expenses we had going back after the crisis, we saw the Merrill transition expenses and all in we were spending around $3 billion on technology development a year. We now spend about $3.5 billion and obviously the transition expenses are out of there.

So everything we are spending is to better the platform, better the business, invest in the growth. And again, some of your questions about costs, that number I don't expect to change going forward because it takes that kind of technology investment to drive the product capabilities of our Company, Merrill One being one product this quarter, along with a new card system, and new trading platform Tom and his team are in the middle of putting in, a new backbone for the Company in terms of our general accounting systems, which has been a tail end to going in and across the board.

So across four- or five-year format, timeframe, we will replace almost every system in the Company but we would expect that to continue. So the GWIM, if we swung around off of last year we did more in other businesses, cash management, started building -- rebuilt the first -- the front end mortgage process and a lot of other things. This year we swung more to GWIM and it is really a decision of which business we invest in at which time and they asked for more investment this year.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Thanks, and then final one for me. You gave the leverage ratio as being above the 5% and the 6% requirements based on the most recent NPR. Subsequent to that, I guess Basel came out in March with some suggested changes to the netting on a standardized basis for counterparty credit and I was wondering if you have any sense at this point what the impact on the leverage ratio would be of those changes, if implemented?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Well, I think the final supplementary leverage ratio rules that reflected that came out in April. And so the numbers that we have given you where we are above the 5% at the parent and the 6% at the bank reflects the impact of those rules with respect to netting and the other changes. So the numbers we have given you reflect that April release.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: That is from the Fed, right? The April release from the Fed?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, that's correct.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Right, no, what I was referring to is that Basel had come out with something in March which one would assume that eventually the Fed will adopt for the standardized approach to counterparty credit. And I think JPM alluded on Friday to the idea that that could add, depending on whether you look at the holding company or the bank unit upwards of 20 basis points to the leverage ratio because it takes into account the netting to a greater extent. And I was wondering if you had any -- if you had done any preliminary work on that?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think I will say that our focus has been on wrapping up the work, given what the April pronouncement is. And I am not -- my understanding was that the Fed -- I think what came out in April is what we are assuming that we are going to need to operate in and if there is something else that changes where there is some benefit, that is great, but our assumption is we are going to be living with what came out on April 8.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it, okay, thanks very much. Appreciate that.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor , Deutsche Bank .

MATT O'CONNOR , ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Good morning. If I could just follow up on the net interest income comments and thoughts. I guess just bigger picture, it seems like the outlook is a little bit lower than what you had previously thought, and I guess I think about building liquidity, it tends to be dilutive to NIM but not net interest income dollars. And some of the things you pointed to were seasonal.

So just like big picture I guess when you think about where you had thought net II might be a couple quarters ago, looking out. What is worse?

Is it more runoff than you thought? Less loan growth because you are tightening up versus what some others are doing or is it just the rates haven't moved at all, or some combination of all that?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I would make a couple points here. If you go back, the guidance that we have given is that we would grind up from roughly a $10.5 billion number and as we look out to the third and fourth quarter, that is what we see in our numbers.

I do think there have been -- relative to if you go back two, three, four quarters ago, several things that have changed. The first is that as we have worked hard to get in the position that we are in from an LCR perspective, we have -- not only LCR but with the rate environment that we are managing the OCI risk that we have directed more of the investment portfolio to shorter dated treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.

And as you go out over a couple of quarters, that has a negative impact. The second thing, as you look at where we are and you look at the forward curve, our assumptions on what yields are going to be that we can reinvest in outside of the switch and mix, obviously those yields have not moved to the extent that the forward curves would have suggested at that point.

And I would say, generally with respect to the loan portfolio, I wouldn't say there is much changed. I do think the one thing to note that we have not talked about, if you look at within our global banking segment, this is the first quarter in a while where we have actually seen the loan pricing spreads stabilize and actually, in certain of the portfolios, move up a touch, so that is a positive.

I don't think there is anything to your question, that material that there are just some small things here and there. And we wanted to update and share our thoughts with what we thought the second quarter would be, but longer-term, I think we are still in the same place as far as the 10, 5 grinding up.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay, and then just switching topics, on the core LAS cost, so ex-all the litigation, you reiterated the target for year end, I think of about $1 billion or $1.1 billion. Still feel good about the $500 million per quarter late next year?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay, and is that something that we could see overshoot to the downside like we are seeing in charge-offs? Obviously like credit is getting much better than a lot of us would have thought a couple years ago? Do you think those core LAS costs end up just being much lower than expected once you work through all the issues?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I would just say, I hope so but I wouldn't -- let's just get it down to that level and we'll figure out what we can do from there. It's been an arduous task and there is still a lot of work ahead.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. And then just lastly, on the SLR again, just care to provide any more details in terms of how much above 5%, how much of a 6%, roughly?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I would say that we have said we are above 5%. We have said that assuming that the Buffett preferred amendment gets done that adds roughly another 10 basis points, which obviously helps move us up.

And you can assume that -- the only other guidance I would say is that the bank ratio relative to the limit is stronger than where we are with the parent today. But once again, the Buffett amendment will help.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Guggenheim.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thank you. Three questions.

One is, operational risk, you talked about that now represents about 25% of your risk-weighted asset, so in doing that in the past, that is very sticky. How do you think you can manage around that amount of capital just being trapped and the fact of all these past settlements that you have had to kind of live through?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Your point, Marty, is a good one, which is that the operational risk models are based on a fairly long time series as we look at it, and one of the things that we do continue to try to discuss and stress is that a lot of those operational risk losses are with respect to activities that we no longer engage and have no intention to engage. There are some of that dialog does continue, but your point, which is a fair one is that the time series are fairly long, and it will remain out there until the data runs out and I wish there was more that I could say but your point is a fair one.

MARTY MOSBY: I mean is the only true way is just almost disembark from mortgage because there was so much in that particular area, the only way to clean it up is to say maybe if that is all related to those mortgage settlements, mortgage-related settlements it is just not worth caring that baggage going forward even though it wasn't really your fault, it was the Countrywide legacy more than it was your own operations.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Well, I think your point, Marty, is the one that we are working through. And in effect, we have done what you suggested that we have done in that if you look at those activities that led to those losses, we are no longer engaged in those activities.

If you look out at -- we are not doing business with monolines from a new rep perspective. You look at private label securitizations, that activity was rep and warrants, it is not continuing.

So we think we have largely done that and I think the question just going forward is if you have proven and you clearly are outside of the activity is there any relief to be had? Not the way that it works now and we will just have to work through and deal with it.

MARTY MOSBY: Got you. Secondly, you called out that mortgage servicing hedging was unfavorable this quarter. If you kind of look at the environment, it seemed like I have seen in others that it was actually a positive, not a negative. What was in particular happening in your mortgage service hedging?

BRUCE THOMPSON : There was really nothing. I think that the comment that we made was that the question of the hedging performance this quarter relative to a year ago. So the hedging was still a positive number, it was just less so on a year-over-year basis.

MARTY MOSBY: Got you. And then lastly, when you think about moving from your mortgage-backed securities into agencies and treasuries that have shorter durations, that is kind of throwing you to become more asset sensitive. Are you thinking about because the liquidity rules are making the balance sheet become more asset sensitive employing more interest rate swaps or off-balance-sheet hedging to rebalance and not become so much more asset sensitive due to these other pressures?

BRUCE THOMPSON : If you go back, we have been pretty consistent that the reason for the investment portfolio is to preserve the long-term value of the deposit. And as you look at that portfolio, it is very clear there are only three things that we do within that portfolio.

There is treasury securities, there is agency securities and there is AA and AAA super-sovereign type activities. And as it relates to becoming a little bit more asset sensitive, we just think given the first -- and you have seen a large portion of it happen that to drive and get to the point we have with LCR, the shift in the portfolio helped this quarter.

It has the same benefit, as I said, of shrinking and reducing your OCI risk as you go through this. And we are not interested in starting to try to do things from a derivative and other perspective to somehow change that. The investment portfolio needs to work with how we set it up and we are going to be prudent with respect to how we do it.

MARTY MOSBY: All right, thanks.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush , NAB Research, LLC.

NANCY BUSH , ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. Question on the mortgage business.

I think there was an article in the Wall Street Journal this morning or somewhere that the business is getting off to a slower start than we would have thought given the spring bounce back that was expected from the winter weather. Has there been any rethinking, Brian, on sort of the eventual size and direction of the mortgage business there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Nancy, we kind of did that in 2011, we got out of all of the direct-to-consumer. So basically we have focused the business on really supporting the core customer base and not trying to drive standalone market shares in the scheme of things.

And so what has happened to that is as we sold off the non-core servicing we have gotten down to a significant less number of loans serviced and your originations, $10 billion just this quarter are all direct-to-consumer, which is the second highest total in the country, direct-to-consumer mortgages so I think we are comfortable where we are. Now the question is, with the LAS aside, the core business, what does it look like?

It will be a small business -- smaller business. It will generate customer, mortgages for our customers because it is a core product they need. But also that sales force, quite frankly, sells other products and does other things for us, refers people for other products.

So I think that the days of being a 20% market share and stuff are far behind us. The days of being a 4% market share direct-to-consumer and growing are there and we will make a little -- we will make some money in it and we will make some money servicing those four loans through the delinquency statistics in those and what we have been doing in that are far superior to even what we would have predicted and that is how we will run the business.

So effectively, we have done what you said. It is just that we are still sort of bound by the overhang of effectively the LAS portfolio still working through the system and the 300,000 delinquent mortgages of which only about -- the delinquency of the core portfolio is about 50,000, 60,000 of them.

NANCY BUSH : Also, could you make sort of a similar pronouncement about the card business, where you stand in terms of share and growth right now and are you where you want to be?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : That is different in the sense that, on the card side, we actually took it down unfortunately through charge-offs and (inaudible) more than not. But I think we have been relatively consistent on a domestic piece, around $90 billion-odd of outstandings and kind of grinding up and down from there and producing more cards that are coming out of the wallet first from our customer from 700,000 we showed you two years ago first quarter to 1 million plus this quarter and pretty consistently was 1 1/3 million plus the third quarter almost 1 million in the fourth quarter, another 1 million plus this quarter.

But the core of what we see there is actually usage of those cards. They are still 60%-plus to our primary customers, but also usage of the cards because of the core three or four card products is driving it. And we have to go some good affinity program.

So I think the card business is -- likewise, it is where we want it but it is a bit more of a payment stream business than it is a pure lending business as it was in some of the past. So the balances ought to be stable and ought to grow, but the high-quality portfolio of the payment rates in the 20%s now, means people pay us off because they are using a transaction card.

NANCY BUSH : And just finally, Bruce, you've indicated that net interest income is going to decline somewhat due to liquidity issues, etc. Is that same going to be true of the NIM or is there anything in the mix change coming in the near term that can send the NIM up, or the adjusted NIM up, from this 236 level?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, I think -- I just want to be clear that we've said that we thought that the core MII ex-market-related impact would be down slightly in the second quarter and then build modestly through the rest of the year. What you will see in the second quarter, given that you have a full quarter of the liquidity, it is on the books, you would expect to see that the NIM in the second quarter moderate a little bit, given that you've got the full quarter of the liquidity and then, obviously, as it starts to grow during the latter half of the year, you would expect the NIM to follow that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : And Nancy, over all, now that we have a better insight as to what these rules are we then have to go back and -- we've got a 7% change of common equity ratio so we have very strong common equity ratio. We have to go back and sort of look at -- Bruce actually -- with the rules now in hand he can start to go work and say, okay, how do we optimize the next round because in terms of how we create maximum liquidity per dollar a balance sheet size, right?

NANCY BUSH : Right. Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell , Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL , ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hey, good morning. Hopefully I will keep these two quick.

Just first on home-equity net charge-offs, I guess if you exclude the TDR impact last quarter, they were up and so were home equity NPLs. Could you just sort of talk through what is going on there?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Sure, there were two things that come Jim, banged this up -- good question -- to the tune of about $50 million each. There were some home equity stuff that we just wrote off that was going to have foreclosure costs that were greater than what it was going to be worth to try to get repaid.

So that happened during the quarter. And then the second thing is there was some regulatory guidance that was given as it related it to second lien loans that were behind first lien that have been modified or charged-off, that we saw during the quarter. We think we got most of it in this quarter, there may be a little bit left in the second quarter, but a good question that those two items banged us up to the tune of about $100 million and that was the reason for the change.

JIM MITCHELL : Okay, that's helpful. Then just on the investment banking pipeline, any commentary?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think what we have seen is the overall markets continue to be strong. The pipeline and the amount of activity and discussions from an M&A perspective is encouraging. And I would say as we go forward that we talked about, we felt the pipeline was strong at the end of the year.

And as we look at the pipelines, they have not changed materially one way or the other at the end of the first quarter versus the end of the year. And as we said, we feel very good about the quarter with the revenue side being north of $1.5 billion and the highest of any firm that has reported at this point.

JIM MITCHELL : Okay. That's great. That's it for me. Thanks.

BRUCE THOMPSON : Super. Well thank you very much, everyone, for joining and we will talk to you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference. You may now disconnect. Have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gvtre : Treasury Department | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140418ea4g001xi
  


 HD
 Q4  2013  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
18,466 words
   PD
15 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's program. (Operator Instructions) It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Lee McEntire .

   TD
LEE MCENTIRE, SVP , IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Good morning everybody on the phone as well as the webcast. Thanks for joining us this morning.

Before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce, let me just remind you we may make forward-looking statements today. For further information on those, please refer to the website and our SEC filings about our forward-looking statement information.

So without further ado let me turn it over to Brian, our CEO.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN , CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Thanks, Lee, and good morning to all of you and thank you for joining us to review our fourth-quarter results.

As we talked over the last several quarters, we have been on a journey of simplifying our company and we talked to you about some consistent areas of focus: capital generation, reducing our cost, managing the risk down, addressing the legacy issues and driving business growth overall. Each quarter you have seen the progress our teammates have made and the momentum is becoming more evident.

On the first page, slide two, of the deck you can see the annual comparisons that will show you the progress over the last couple years. First, we have improved the balance sheet. Our Tier 1 common capital has grown 16% this year.

Liquidity and time to required funding have further strengthened. This strength in capital and liquidity allowed us to begin returning capital through share buybacks to shareholders in 2013.

Another area of our early focus has been rightsizing our expense base. We have been meeting the goals of our cost programs each year. While we make progress on this each quarter, there is still significant progress when you look across the last couple years.

After reporting expenses, excluding goodwill and impairment of $77 billion in 2011, we have worked that number down to $69 billion in 2013. As we have been clear with you, we expect additional cost savings in 2014 as we continue to execute on both our new BAC and our legacy assets and servicing initiatives.

We have also focused on addressing our legacy mortgage issues, and although we still have work to do, we have made progress. On our credit costs and our provision costs we see tremendous results as net loss rates in our portfolios are levels not seen in nearly a decade. As a result of all this work earnings have improved significantly, but we still have not approached the true earnings potential of Bank of America .

So as we move to slide two let's talk about recent results in the business on a business-by-business basis. We have been delivering solid growth and activity in relationships across all the groups of our customers and clients we serve. Let me highlight a few of those for you.

Deposit levels continue to reach records each quarter. While this growth has been occurring in balances, the rate paid has been declining to what we believe is low against our peers, that 8 basis points in our consumer business. Our operating costs, which we focus on heavily, of our deposit business has declined to just 200 basis points now.

Driving this improvement is the work we have done to optimize our delivery network, our stores, in response to customer behavior changes across time. Banking centers over-the-counter transactions continue to go down, but ATM, online, and mobile transactions continue to grow. We understand this and we observed this in our customers and we are working with them to capitalize on arguably the largest and best positioned branch network in banking.

However, branches do remain a critical component of everything we do. We have about 8 million customer visits a week, the kind of traffic that we really appreciate and most retailers would give their right arm for. Meanwhile, as that traffic comes in, the customer behavior continues to shift to ATMs, online, and mobile, and that is giving us the opportunity to be more efficient at the same time continuing to deliver innovative products to our customers.

When you move to our mass affluent customer base we have seen deepening across the customer relationships. Merrill Lynch brokerage assets continue their strong growth. We have invested heavily in the salesforce for what we call our specialist salesforce and that has grown to 6,700 people in 2013. Looking at what that salesforce has been able to do, this year we opened 350,000 new Merrill Edge accounts; 125,000 new small business deposit and card accounts as well during 2013.

As we move to our industry-leading global wealth investment management business, we continue to break records on top line and profitability. We just recorded the best year in the Company's history for wealth management results. We have more customers and clients doing more business with us and now we manage client assets of over $2.4 trillion.

In our global banking business loan flows have been very strong, now growing for six consecutive quarters. Investment banking is coming off a very strong year and a very strong fourth quarter where we have once again maintained our number two position overall, improved in fees overall, and grew market share year over year.

As we look at our trading business, or our global markets business, we have been really pleased with the success we have had in equities over the past year and that has helped offset some of the industry challenges facing the larger FIC business that we had. Now both remain very important customer-facing businesses for us. They face some tough regulatory changes as the rules have changed about what the scope of activities is over the past couple of years, but the team under Tom Montag has been managing those changes well.

Importantly, we rank for the third year as a top global research firm. All-in-all we believe, if you think back, 2013 was a significant year for the progress this company has made against all the focus areas I mentioned earlier. As we look to 2014, we are well positioned as a company to meet our customers' needs by delivering the whole company to every client and every customer and winning in the marketplace.

With that brief introduction I would like to turn it over to Bruce to cover the numbers for the quarter. Bruce?

BRUCE THOMPSON , CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION : Great. Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. I am going to start and go through the fourth-quarter results starting on slide number four.

We earned $3.4 billion, or $0.29 per diluted share, this quarter. Total revenues in the quarter on an FTE basis were in line with the third quarter of 2013 at $21.7 billion and were $22.3 billion if we exclude the negative impact of FVO and DVA as a result of the significant credit spread tightening we saw in our credit spreads during the quarter.

Our revenues benefited from increased net interest income, strong investment banking and wealth management fees during the quarter, and were partially offset by lower equity investment gains. Total noninterest expense of $17.3 billion increased from the third quarter of 2013 as a result of increased litigation costs, which were $2.3 billion during the quarter.

If we back those litigation costs out and back out $1.4 billion of the foreclosure look back expense that we saw in the fourth quarter of 2012, our expenses during the quarter declined $300 million from the third quarter of 2013 and $1.4 billion from the fourth quarter of 2012. Asset quality continued its improvement and resulted in provision expense of only $336 million.

I would also mentioned two additional items that impacted results during the quarter. As I mentioned, FVO and DVA $618 million and we also recorded discrete tax benefits of approximately $500 million during the quarter that were driven by tax items that were related to non-US operations as well as the resolution of certain global tax matters.

On slide five you can see that our period end balance sheet came in at $2.1 trillion, below the prior quarter on lower trading assets versus that third quarter of 2013. Ending loans declined $6 billion due to the decline in residential loans in our discretionary portfolio. Outside of residential mortgages, client and customer lending reflected good commercial and seasonal credit card growth that was offset by expected declines that we have within our runoff portfolios.

Period-end deposits grew $9 billion from the record levels that we saw during the third quarter of 2013.

Moving down the page tangible book value improved to $13.79 as the full benefit of earnings was partially offset by a negative move in AOCI as a result of higher rates. Tangible common equity increased to 7.2% during the quarter and during the quarter we repurchased 92 million common shares for roughly $1.4 billion.

The last thing that I would mention on this slide is, despite the earnings of $3.4 billion, our return on tangible common equity at 8.6% remains lower than we would like it to be, but we continue to make very good progress on this front.

On slide six, you can see our Basel I Tier 1 common ratio of 11.19% increased from the third quarter of 2013. If we look at Basel III on a fully phased-in basis, we remain above our 8.5% 2019 minimum requirement under both the standardized as well as the advanced approaches.

Let's first look at the advanced approach. Under that approach Tier 1 common capital increased from the third quarter of 2013 to more than $132 billion. Our Basel III risk-weighted assets remain steady at $1.3 trillion and our common ratio improved slightly from the third quarter of 2013 to 9.96%.

Under the standardized approach, our estimate of Basel III Tier 1 common ratio improved a touch from the third quarter of 2013 and remained slightly above 9%. If we turn to the supplementary leverage ratios, based on the proposed US requirements that are expected to take effect in 2018, as of the end of 2013 our bank holding company leverage ratio improved from the third quarter of 2013 and continues to exceed the proposed minimum of 5%.

Looking at our primary bank subsidiaries, BANA and FIA, they also continue to both be in excess of the 6% proposed minimums. The last point I would make on this topic the BCBS published final supplementary leverage rules over the weekend, and while we do note some improvements from the original proposal, we are still evaluating the exact impact to us.

If we turn to slide seven, funding and liquidity, our long-term debt ended the quarter $6 billion lower which further improved our funding cost. Global excess liquidity sources during the quarter increased $17 billion to $376 billion and was driven by our strong deposit flows. The time to required funding at the parent company increased to 38 months. As we look at 2014 we have $31 billion of parent company maturities during the year and once again we would expect the issuances to be below that number as we both reduce as well as smooth the maturity profile of that debt footprint.

The other thing I would mention is that we do expect to see some additional issuance within our banks this year, given the applicability of the new liquidity rules and how they apply to the bank subsidiaries.

If we turn to slide eight, net interest income, our net interest income on an FTE basis was $11 billion, which was $520 million over the third quarter of 2013. The fourth quarter of 2013 did include $210 million of positive benefits in market-related adjustments driven by lower premium amortization from slower prepay assumptions on mortgage-backed securities as long-term rates rose 30 basis points from the end of 2013 to the end of 2014.

Our net interest income excluding those adjustments was $10.8 billion, representing a $241 million increase from the third quarter of 2013. Roughly two-thirds of that improvement was driven by traded-related net income and the balance, once again excluding market-related adjustments, was driven by lower long-term debt levels and, to a lesser degree, higher deposit levels and lower rates paid. Net interest income in those benefits was partially offset by lower consumer loan balances and lower yields.

As a result of these different factors, our net interest yield, excluding market-related adjustments, improved from 2.44% in the third quarter of 2013 to 2.51% in the fourth quarter of 2013.

As we move into 2014, I do want to remind you that the first quarter includes two less interest accrual days so the Q4 2013 base of just below $10.8 billion, excluding the market-related adjustments, all else being equal would start at roughly $10.6 billion for the first quarter of 2014. Our asset sensitivity position remains positioned to benefit from higher rates, particularly from the short end of the curve.

If we move to expenses, as I mentioned earlier noninterest expense was $17.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013 and included a $2.3 billion charge for litigation expense. Litigation expenses increased $1.2 billion from the third quarter of 2013 as we continued to evaluate our legacy exposures, largely our MBS litigation, which led to additional reserves. Excluding litigation, total expenses were $15 billion during the quarter which compares favorably to the $15.3 billion in the prior quarter and $16.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.

Our legacy assets and servicing costs, once again excluding litigation, declined nearly $400 million from the third quarter of 2013 and were below $2 billion this quarter as we previously guided. This drove the $300 million improvement in expenses adjusted for litigation in the quarter. As we continue to reduce the delinquent loans serviced over the course of 2014 and reduce operating costs, we expect the fourth quarter of 2014 LAS cost, excluding litigation, to be roughly $1.1 billion.

Move for a moment to new BAC, the benefits from new BAC in the most recent quarter were offset by a small seasonal uptick in costs when comparing to the third quarter of 2013. And when comparing to the fourth quarter of 2012 our new BAC savings are partially offset by roughly $300 million of increases from revenue-related costs on higher global banking in markets and GWIM revenues. We remain on track to achieve the expected $2 billion of new BAC cost savings in mid 2015 as these initiatives wind down near the end of 2014.

If we move to the number of full-time equivalent employees, we ended the quarter at 242,000 employees, a decline of more than 5,000, or 2.3%, from the third quarter of 2013. And that was split pretty evenly between staff reductions in LAS and the production side of the mortgage business as volumes declined and, to a lesser extent, we reduced staff associated with our branch optimization.

Before I leave expenses, I do want to remind you all that the first quarter typically includes the annual cost of incentives for retirement eligible associates. And once again we expect in the first quarter of 2014 that number to be approximately $900 million, which is consistent with what we saw in each of the first quarters of 2012 and 2013.

If we move to slide 10 on asset quality, you can see that credit quality once again improved nicely. Net charge-offs declined to a reported $1.6 billion or a net loss ratio of 68 basis points. The quarter did include $144 million of charge-offs related to clarification of regulatory guidance on accounting for TDRs in the home loans portfolios. If we exclude that change, net charge-offs were approximately $1.4 billion, or 62 basis point net loss ratio, and improved $250 million, or 15%, from the third quarter of 2013.

Delinquencies, which are obviously a leading indicator of net charge-offs, declined again as well. Our fourth quarter provision expense was $336 million on the back of this steadily improving consumer data, resulting in a reserve release of $1.1 billion excluding the regulatory guidance change. As we move into 2014 we continue to see credit quality improve.

Let's now move into a discussion of the businesses and I am going to start on slide 11 with consumer and business banking. Within this segment we delivered improved earnings from both the previous quarter as well as the prior year's quarter. Net income of nearly $2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013 is up 11% from the prior quarter [and] 36% from the fourth quarter of 2012.

Stability in revenues, lower credit costs, as well as expense reductions driven by network optimization drove the improvement in both periods. If we take a step back and review customer activity during the quarter, we saw our average deposits grow steadily in rates paid down to 8 basis points. Our brokerage assets increased 7% from the third quarter of 2013 and are up 26% year over year on both improved market valuation as well as account flows.

Our consumer card loans show seasonal growth this quarter as well as continued strong issuance with 1 million cards issued during the quarter.

I would note that our fourth quarter of 2013 balances reflect the reclassification of roughly $1 billion of an affinity portfolio that was moved to loans held for sale and we would expect seasonality to move these balances lower in the first quarter of 2014. Our risk-adjusted margin on credit cards is now back above 9%, driven by seasonal spending and improved credit quality as net charge-offs and delinquencies continued to improve.

Our expense levels during the quarter do include approximately $112 million of litigation costs and that masked the benefit of our delivery network optimization as mobile banking usage continues to increase and we continue to consolidate banking centers.

Let's move to slide 12, consumer real estate services, which as you all know represents only 8% of the Company's revenues. In our supplemental information we report two separate components of this segment, one focused on loan origination and the other focused on servicing and legacy issues.

As we signaled last quarter, our first mortgage retail originations of $11.6 billion were down 49% from the third quarter as the amount and level of refinancing opportunities slowed given the rising rate environment. Locked volumes declined 37%, leading to lower core production revenue. We continue to reduce our production staffing levels to be consistent with these lower volumes that we are experiencing.

Our rep and warrant expense was $70 million during the quarter and declined by roughly $250 million from the third quarter of 2013, which benefited Mortgage Banking income.

One item I do want to mention from the appendix of our slide deck is on page 20 regarding rep and warrant exposure. We did receive increased levels of private-label claims, but it is important to note that the vast majority showed no evidence that the claimant reviewed the individual loan file ahead of the submission. That obviously impacts the overall claim quality and, therefore, the process for claims resolution.

The other primary revenue component in this segment, servicing revenue, declined $54 million from the third quarter of 2013 as a result of our smaller servicing portfolio.

From a cost of servicing perspective our number of 60-plus day delinquent loans dropped 73,000 to 325,000 units at the end of 2013. As a result of this once again, our LAS expense, ex litigation, declined nearly $400 million during the quarter to $1.8 billion.

Global wealth and investment management on slide 13, this represents 21% of our company's revenue and our wealth management business achieved records for net income in both the quarter as well as for the full year of 2013. Within this segment both Merrill Lynch as well as U.S. Trust maintain their strong leadership positions managing a total of $2.4 trillion in client balances.

Revenue approached $4.5 billion in the quarter, increasing 7% year over year and 2% on a linked-quarter basis. I would also note it is the fourth consecutive quarter in which the pretax margin was above 25%.

Our asset management fees once again achieved a new record during the quarter, driving the revenue improvement from the third quarter of 2013. Our client engagement remains strong and market levels are providing an additional tailwind.

Our long-term AUM flows for the quarter were $9.4 billion and $48 billion for the year, nearly doubling the 2012 production level. Ending deposits also grew nicely again and our ending client loan balances of almost $119 billion reached record levels as we continue to see very good activity in both consumer real estate as well as our security space lending.

Turning to slide 14, global banking, our fourth-quarter earnings of $1.3 billion show good growth over the third quarter of 2013 with strong investment banking results, but are down from the fourth quarter of 2012 due to higher provision expense. Provision in the year-ago quarter included reserve releases while we built reserves in the fourth quarter of 2013 associated with the commercial loan growth that we have seen.

While we are on credit quality, I would note that our net charge-offs within the banking segment for the quarter were only $7 million versus $132 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and $35 million in the third quarter of 2013.

Our expenses reflect effective cost control, but also reflect increases related to revenue-related compensation for investment banking. Our investment banking fees this quarter across the Company were a record $1.74 billion, up 9% from the fourth quarter of 2012 and 34% from the third quarter of 2013. Based on deal logic we did maintain our number two position in fees with an 8% market share. In addition, during the quarter we ranked number one in America's investment banking fees with a 10.7% market share.

During 2013 we advised on 10 of the top 20 announced M&A deals. And as we move into 2014 the pipeline remains strong.

If we move to the balance sheet, average loans increased $8.8 billion from the third quarter with solid C&I growth, particularly in large corporate and healthcare, along with growth in commercial real estate. Our average growth did outstrip our $2.3 billion end-of-period growth as we funded several deals near the end of the third quarter of 2013 which benefited the overall average balances. We see solid customer demand for loans as we head into 2014, but would note that competition is particularly aggressive for middle market loans.

Lastly on banking, our average deposits increased almost $20 billion from the third quarter of 2013 as our customers continue to show strong liquidity.

We switched to global markets on slide 15. Ex-DVA we earned $341 million in the fourth quarter of 2013, consistent with the fourth quarter of 2012 but down $190 million compared to the third quarter of 2013 after we exclude the UK tax charge. Higher revenue in both comparisons was offset by litigation costs, mostly associated with RMBS securities litigation.

Our sales and trading revenue, once again ex-DVA was $3 billion, 19% above the fourth quarter of 2012 and in line with what we saw in the third quarter of 2013. Our fixed sales and trading revenue were up roughly $300 million, or 16%, compared to the fourth quarters of 2012 as the strength we saw in our credit and mortgage businesses more than offset slowness in both rates and commodities. Our fourth quarter of 2013 did include roughly a $200 million benefit from recoveries on certain legacy positions within the FIC business.

Our equity sales and trading area finished a very strong year. Revenues, although down 7% from the third quarter of 2013, were up 27% over the fourth quarter of 2012 as we continue to benefit from the repositioning of this business over the past 18 months. We gained market share and improved our performance in each of the different product lines.

Expenses excluding litigation showed very good cost controls and small increases in line with revenue improvement. Our average trading-related assets are down $54.3 billion, or 11%, from the year-ago period and are generally flat with the third quarter of 2013.

On slide 16 we show you the results of all other. Profitability this quarter compared to the third quarter of 2013 declined as the tax benefits this quarter that I described earlier were more than offset by lower revenue and less reserve release.

The revenue decline from the third quarter of 2013 was driven by lower equity investment gains -- if you recall we sold CCB shares during the third quarter of 2013 -- as well as more negative FVO valuations. The expense within all other includes $250 million of litigation in the fourth quarter of 2013. Lastly, I would note we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 30% in 2014 absent any unusual items.

Before we open it up for questions, let me make a few comments on the quarter. Capital and liquidity have never been stronger. On the revenue side customer activity drove stronger core business results. Our consumer banking saw a modest improvement on card income and service charges after troughing in early 2013.

Our global wealth and investment management business had a record year. Our global banking had a record year as well with higher investment banking fees and stronger lending activity. And our global markets business is performing well against the market opportunities that they are seeing. We kept our cost initiative work on track and credit improvement continues its track towards historic lows.

We also made significant progress in 2013 in continuing to resolve legacy mortgage matters with the more significant ones being settlements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac , on GSE rep and warranty issues, MBIA in the monoline space, and the Luther Maine State class-action suit in the private label area of RMBS litigation. With that let's go ahead and open it up for Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: John McDonald , Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD , ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning, Bruce. I was wondering in terms of the core net interest income you mentioned that the seasonally adjusted starting point for the first quarter would be 10.6, but it sounds like you expect that to keep grinding higher with the debt paydowns and rates being a little bit higher on the long end. Is $300 million that we saw this quarter, is that a good representation of the pace that core NII could grow at?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think, John, if you look at what we saw during the quarter, we had a series of benefits for the quarter. You can see that the -- if you look back at our tables, the margin that we saw within some of the repo and other global markets lending activity was up nicely. As you mentioned, we benefited from the continued reduction in the long-term debt footprint, which was clearly a positive. And we had a little bit of benefit, even if you back out FAS 91, on the debt securities line.

So I think that those three things were clearly favorable. We will have to see with respect to the markets margins, as well as just overall rates, where we go in the first quarter of 2014 relative to 2013.

I would be careful to assume that you are going to see $300 million type improvements in the NII as we go forward on a quarter-to-quarter basis. But over time, with the work that we are doing, we would expect that number to continue to grind upwards all other things being equal.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. Any change, material change in your interest-rate sensitivity overall, Bruce, to long rates and/or short rates?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I would say that whenever rates move up you tend to widen out a little bit as maturities extend in the mortgage space as rates move up. So you always have a little bit of that in a rising rate environment, although given where rates are, we think we are largely through that.

The only other thing from an asset liability management perspective I would note is that, as it relates to both managing OCI risk as well as managing to LCR, you saw it a little bit in the fourth quarter and you will see it a little bit more going forward, that we are purchasing on the margin some additional treasuries given the treatment that they have under LCR.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. Then I was wondering if you or Brian could speak at a high level about how you approach this year's CCAR. Are you looking to grow your buybacks off of the $5 billion common request from last year? And do you feel that you have improved the earnings enough and consistency here to start moving the dividend up yet?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : We are not going to comment, John, on specific items with respect to the CCAR request. We have been pretty consistent as we came into 2013 that we would focus on increasing the core profitability of the Company. And as you look at the last couple of quarters from an EPS perspective, we think we have done a good job of that.

You can see the capital build that we have had and you can see the reduction in the legacy exposures that we have made. So we feel like we did a good job of preparing ourselves for CCAR this year and we are obviously working hard as we go through the rest of the process between now and mid-March.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. Then last thing is you mentioned, Bruce, the 8.5% return on tangible and hope that that goes higher over time. Your ROA was 64 basis points. I guess what kind of goals do you have for ROA and ROE over the next few years, and any thoughts on timelines that you will hope to get there on?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think as we look out at, as we look out over the three years I would say it is more of the same for us that you can see a tangible common equity ratio that is just over 7%. The three metrics that we assume we stay at around that 7% level. We were about it in the fourth quarter, but if we stay at that level we are looking to get to the point where we are returning 1% on assets, which translates into a 14% return on tangible common equity. Those are the types of levels that we see ourselves looking to achieve over the course of the next three years.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley .

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Thanks, good morning. Couple of questions, one on the NIM discussion that we just were having.

When you look at what happened with the yield and the cost of funds it looks like you are getting a little bit more competitive on non-resi consumer. Just wondering how to think about how you are looking to shift either the loan growth going forward and how you are thinking about that loan yield relative to your cost of funds in an environment where NIB probably doesn't grow as much as it had been in the past, maybe your cost of funds is flattening out or potentially increasing a little bit.

BRUCE THOMPSON : I'm not sure exactly which piece you are looking at, Betsy, but if you go back to our earnings supplement, which is back on page 10, I think it is interesting that you can see from the third quarter of 2013 to the fourth quarter of 2013 that our yields on residential mortgages did increase about 6 basis points to 3.74%. The other interesting thing is that we have started to see and be able to do more home-equity type business with our core customers.

I think it is interesting; if you look at the yields on that portfolio, they were up 20 basis points to just under 4% for the quarter. So as we look at the yields and the rates that we are able to get, I think we are competitive in the market and we have been able to see some slight increases within the rates that we are able to earn.

BETSY GRASECK: Sure. It is an interesting mix shift because you have got a little bit of shrinking going on obviously with the legacy resi still coming off, yet the yields there are increasing. And on the non-resi consumer you have got some yield compression happening, but your loan growth is at margin inflecting more positively.

At the same time, cost of funds looks like it is probably settling out here and potentially even going up a little bit. I mean NIB average balances were still up Q on Q, but end of period was down, so that is kind of the fuller context of the question.

BRUCE THOMPSON : The things is you have got the volume going through and then either the [receive] or the pay is on both sides of the rate question. And we continue to see deposit pricing. Liability pricing came down. The contribution from non-interest-bearing size in the balance sheet continues to go up.

But just focusing on the production, what has really been happening across the last several quarters that we are seeing stabilization in some of the balances and the runoff portfolio impact gets smaller and smaller from some of the non-core portfolios that we are getting rid of. But in the fourth quarter, for example, our direct auto, which is -- in 2013 our direct auto business, not our indirect but our direct-to-consumer auto, was up 55%. The home equities in the fourth quarter were up almost 100% over the prior year's fourth quarter. Year over year they are up 60%.

The card we had about 19% more production in the fourth quarter of 2013 versus 2012. So we are building -- in the business banking, small business area we are seeing production up, so we are building the basics that are producing the balanced growth.

The pricing spreads are holding. It's competitive as heck in the middle market and things like that. So I think it all serves us well largely having runoff stuff that may have yielded high but had a high credit cost content you got to remember. And we are replacing with stuff that is good and core and great credit quality and so we are seeing a shift a little bit from the commercial loan growth which was really more positive to where the consumer loan growth is starting to stabilize and come along.

BETSY GRASECK: When do you think you get that inflection point in loan growth? Clearly, it is a function of legacy basically not weighing on the loan growth overall. When does that inflection point happen?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : If you look at the various portfolios, I think in card we have kind of seen it. As Bruce talked about, we have got a sale. I think it's home equity you still got a ways to go, Betsy, because remember we have got about 40% or so of our home equity is still in the non-core portfolio. And then I think in the commercial side you have seen the straight growth, whether it is large corporate or commercial middle market.

I think that would be the overall summary. So I think that sort of came through from the corporate activity. It moved faster to the smaller business activity and then consumer activity, but we are stabilizing both portfolios and growing.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then just turning to the mortgage for a moment. On LAS expenses, did I hear you right that you are looking for LAS expenses to be at about $1 billion at year-end? Is that correct on a quarterly basis for 2014?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, we quoted roughly $1.1 billion, Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, so that is an uptick, right, from what you had been saying before, sub $1 billion by year-end?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Yes, that is correct. It is about $100 million higher than what we had said before. And I think the work that we are starting is -- take a step back that we got through roughly $400 million during this quarter, which was a little bit better than we would have expected to do, so we felt very good about that.

And if you look at the number of 60-plus day delinquent loans, it came all the way down to 325,000 loans. So what we are going to be working on over the course of the next 90 days is a little bit of a reset of that expense base so that we can continue to drive that number down. That $1.1 billion doesn't reflect that, but given the work and the activity levels we need to go back and do some more work on that.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then so $1.1 billion by year-end 2014; is there still runway in 2015 to bring that down further?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : We still think and we have been consistent that we would expect and look to end 2015 at roughly $500 million a quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Then just lastly on the litigation reserving, you called out the $2 billion litigation reserve for the mortgage business, highlighted that that reflects a lot of the litigation risk you think you have. The question we get from people is how many more quarters of this should we build in going forward, because you do still have some lumpiness in the lawsuits that you face.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : That is always a tough question. I think what I would say, Betsy, is that there was obviously a lot of new learning that we saw during the fourth quarter of this year and as a result of that we adjusted the reserves for the legacy exposures to reflect that which we learned. And as we have said, it was largely with respect to RMBS litigation and beyond that it is just a number that is difficult to predict.

BETSY GRASECK: All right, thanks.

OPERATOR: Matthew O'Connor , Deutsche Bank .

MATTHEW O'CONNOR , ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Good morning. We are seeing some peers that came out yesterday actually increasing liquidity and long-term debt levels to meet the LCR. I think you guys were starting at a higher point maybe than they were, but just give us a sense of maybe where you are for LCR with the current proposals.

And as we think about kind of the net impact of long-term debt running off at the holding company, increasing at the bank, how does that all shake out on the net basis this year?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I will let Bruce talk you through it, but we got to remember how we got here which is with a legacy set of companies put together. They had debt structures that were built for their company and their industry without the core funding we had, so we are coming down to a level most of our peers were below and they may be coming up a little bit.

You got have to remember that whether it was Countrywide or Merrill Lynch the funding structure was so different. We had like $400 billion of long-term debt we have been bringing down and the size of the balance sheet shrank. We started off at about $2.5 trillion and we are down to $2.1 trillion, so I would be careful about comparing where they are going versus where we are going based on this just because what we had is different than what they started.

Then Bruce can talk about what we think from where we are now going forward.

BRUCE THOMPSON : As we look out, Matt, I think at the parent company as we look at and with our understanding of the LCR ratio we are in the 100% area as it relates to LCR. So at the parent you can look at us being where we need to be based on 2017 levels.

The one area that we will look to do more in and I highlighted is to further build and take out more term financing within the bank levels to look to build that. So I think we are in great shape at the parent, we are in great shape at the banks, but you will see us doing a little bit more bank financing activity to be able to meet those requirements. If you look at where we finance it at the banks, there is no incremental cost for that that is different than what we have communicated before.

The other thing that I would just point out on the overall debt footprint and the cost of it is with the work that we have done on the balance sheet and with where our credit spreads are now in the market, we will be refinancing our debt at lower rates than the debt that is coming off of the books as it matures.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR : Then at the parent, being around 100% right now, any sense of how much cushion you want? I think some banks are running maybe like a 15% cushion. Some banks are still trying to get to where you are right.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think to project a cushion three years out I think we clearly are going to run at a cushion. We are going to run the Company so this is not an issue. But until we get out to 2016 and 2017 and understand the exact composition, as well as to any puts and takes that we are seeing, it is probably a little bit premature to talk about a cushion.

The focus has been to get to the 100% at the parent immediately, so it is not an issue to discuss.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR : Okay. Then just separately, we saw out of JPMorgan yesterday a one-time valuation adjustment on certain derivatives. Just wondering is that applicable to you or have you been absorbing it over time or still to come?

BRUCE THOMPSON : It is obviously applicable to anyone that has an uncollateralized derivative book, so it is applicable to us. I think that clearly the industry view and how you account for FBA is still very much evolving. JPMorgan , obviously, came out today with their adoption and as a company it is something that we continue to evaluate.

I think the important thing to remember when you look at this, and I'm sure you know this, is just that this is a question of do you take a reserve for something that you earn back over the average life of your uncollateralized balances. So it is not something that changes the core economics of the activities that we are doing.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR : Okay. All right, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr , ISI.

GLENN SCHORR , ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Thanks very much. So just kind of [wheezing] into some of the next questions, but on the balance sheet migration over the past year cash and equivalents up 19%; repo, trading assets, and derivative assets all down, say, 10% to 14%. Is that a function of some of the sluggishness on the trading side during the year in the market and just a reaction to what is out there, or is this your obviously intent to get on size for SLR and LCR?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I would say that as we look at and what we have said is that from an LCR and an SLR basis, given that we are at the levels at the parent and then with respect to the supplementary leverage ratio at the bank, given we are at the levels that we need to be that phase in between 2015 and 2019, there is not anything directly related to those given that we are in great shape with respect to those.

What I would say is that as we move forward and as we look at the bank level and some of the rules, you will see us, on average, carrying a little bit more cash at those levels. And you saw that as you look at the year-end numbers.

As it relates to the different repo activity and the like within the global markets business, you continue to look to manage and balance what is the size of that book, how it affects the overall size of the Company, and the yield that you are able to achieve. I think that was one of the things as some of these different regs come out that we feel good that if you look at the repo book we were up 7 basis points from an average yield perspective Q3 to Q4. Those are numbers that are going to ebb and flow, but I would say directionally we feel very good about where the balances.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Our approach has been as these rules come out to put ourselves in compliance, or whatever the right word would be, immediately and not wait so that we didn't have hanging over us could you get to the LCR, could you get to be supplemental leverage. So we just said position our balance sheet.

But I would say as you look at the company's sort of constitution in terms of business mix and balance sheet mix at the year-end 2013. We are very comfortable with that and so there will be ebbs and flows. Loans will grow here or maybe market will use a little more balance sheet on a given quarter.

But Tom and the team have done a good job to sort of be able to face against the customers and maintain our strong market position in all our businesses -- investment banking, sales trading, fixed income and equities both -- while at the same time bringing the balance sheet in year over year down. But we are completely comfortable with it being in the size range it is now and expect it to stay roughly in there. I don't think we see massive changes in how the Company looks to comply with rules because we are already complying.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay, appreciate that. In global markets the trading in absolute numbers in relative to some peers is pretty good. The question I have is if you look at the return on capital or the return on average assets it is pretty low.

I am curious A) how much litigation costs dented that, because I know it dented it; we just can't see exactly how much. And are these metrics we should be looking at on a consistent basis? They are in the supplement and I am assuming that they mean something, I just don't know if the capital allocations and the asset allocations are fair things to judge on.

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think as it relates to the capital allocations they clearly are. One of the things that if you look back in the footnote that we highlighted is we will refresh those allocations in 2014 and continue to have more capital pushed out within the businesses.

As you look at the returns within the markets business, I think you need to adjust for two numbers when you look at those. The litigation number within markets business was north of $600 million for the quarter, and then you had another couple hundred million dollars during the quarter for DVAs. So when you look at the returns, you need to adjust for those two numbers and realize that, in the fourth quarter, you are looking at what is seasonally the slowest quarter.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay, that is totally fair. Final one is in mortgage. I think there was a bit of a hiatus as you are getting things battened down. I think you picked up about 100 basis points market share since then on the retail side. Just curious for an update on, A, how the fourth quarter looked and then, B, your thoughts on going out in terms of intentions to continue to push that share higher.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Well, I think if you look at it, you could calculate statistics, but we were down. We had two things going on during 2013 in the second half, especially as the HARP volume started to fall off because we sized our portfolio down in terms of total servicing size. So our HARP opportunity went down and then obviously as rates went up, sort of midyear out, the volumes dropped. And so the third quarter, the pipeline pull through helped us get $20 billion odd and in fourth quarter down to $11 billion.

But if we look at it non-HARP share, we are pleased with the progress we are making and we will continue to grind that direct-to-consumer, grind that forward from where we are now at about $9 billion this past quarter.

So I think we are fine. It is going to be a business which we shape to size -- to serve the customers and the wealth management business does a couple billion a quarter. It is a good solid position.

I would say in January with the rates moving down a little bit and stuff, you saw another kick up of about 20%, 25% in application volume in our book already. Now I don't know if that holds and how much seasonality because the way Christmas and New Year's fell this year and things like that as we move through the month, but it immediately kicked up over the last several days as rates moved a little bit in our favor. And the purchase volume has also moved up in January.

So we are looking for this business to start to grow again, but it obviously suffered a couple of different -- both the rate effect and also the HARP effect in the fourth quarter.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay. Thanks both very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer & Co.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI , ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Yes, I wanted to come back to the debt footprint discussion and just looking on page 11, you can see total average long-term debt down $27 billion year-over-year and at the same time, looking at page 7 of the presentation, the time to required funding expanded from 33 months to 38 months.

So I'm just curious, is there some other liability that is extending while you are bringing down the debt footprint and how can we gauge for the year ahead? What I'm getting at is how much further can you get, how can we triangulate on how much further room there might be in the debt reduction?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think that the important thing, and I understand your question, when you look at the time to required funding, one of the reasons why -- there are a couple components that go into that, the amount of liquidity that you have at the parent obviously and then what the debt footprint is over the course of the period of time that you are measuring it.

And if you look at what we have done, we basically -- if you looked at our Company at the end of 2012, we had $70 billion of debt maturities that we needed to work through over the course of 2013 and 2014. And you obviously need to carry significant amounts of liquidity to be able to basically meet your time to required funding when it is that lumpy.

What we have done is, between the debt that we repaid this year, as well as the activity you saw when we tendered for debt several times in 2013 for debt that was maturing in 2014, was to knock down those maturity profiles.

So you are asking a very good question, which is over time what you should expect us to be able to do is continue to move the parent company funding down and as we flatten out those debt maturities, we will be able to do that and not have nearly the impact on time to required funding because the maturity profile will be much flatter.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI : Okay. Then as a follow-up, looking at your 10-K and 10-Q, you gave us a very nice breakdown of the debt by parent company versus Merrill versus BofA and A. And your parent company debt looks like, at least between year-end and September, like it was relatively flat and the declines in the long-term debt came primarily from Merrill Lynch going from like $90 billion to $60 billion.

Does Merrill Lynch as an entity need to continue to pay down debt or can that essentially be all squeezed into other subsidiaries and does that have an impact on the cost of funds?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think a couple things. Keep in mind we told you when we reported on the third-quarter earnings that the Merrill Lynch holding company that had previously issued debt before the merger of the two companies. That has been merged into the BAC holding company so when you look at that debt profile realize today it is one and the same.

I think the important thing I would look at is on page seven. What we do is that we do give you the actual what we consider parent company, and that parent company back in previous quarters prior to [ML and BAC] merging is a combined number. So if you look at those red bars on the bottom on page seven that is the combined debt footprint of the two companies that is now one and you can see it over the course of five quarters migrating down.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI : Okay. All right, I will follow up, thanks. That is it for me.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell , Buckingham Research .

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH : Good morning. Just a couple of quick follow ups. On your Basel III Tier 1 common, the standardized versus advanced, you have I guess almost a 90 basis point difference. Some of your large bank peers are closer to a 10 basis point difference. Can you help us think about why you have such a large gap between the standardized and advanced?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : The first thing I would say is that generally we would expect that gap to narrow over time. But as you look at the actual content of it I think the biggest reason that you have is just given the percentage in some of our commercial loan balances that we have relative to our peers that under Basel III advanced get impacted significantly based on the actual credit quality, where when you go to standardized it is just 100%.

So I think you have got -- the first thing is you do have some of that activity or difference between the two metrics. Then I would say that the second thing is that we still do have some assets that under Basel III standardized do get some fairly heavy risk weightings that we will continue to work off over the next couple years.

So there is no question relative to what we have seen out there, we are a little bit wider. I think those are a couple of the differences. And as I say, I would expect over the course of the next 12 to 18 months you will see that gap tighten.

JIM MITCHELL: So on the commercial side as credit gets better we should see that gap close for that reason?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : No, the commercial credit getting better really isn't going to -- that is not going to lead to it getting tighter, because under standardized a commercial loan is a commercial loan. There is no benefit of credit quality. It is going to be more the runoff of some of the different positions that we have within the Company as opposed to anything specific on commercial.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, got you. Then just a follow up on your eventual ROE target or a tangible ROE of 14%. When you are kind of discussing that target is that assuming some help from interest rates being higher, or is that without that help?

BRUCE THOMPSON : As we look out at and as we look at 2015, 2016 we don't do anything besides just look out at the forward curve, so you do get a little bit of benefit at the very end of 2015 and a little bit more so in 2016. So there is embedded some of that. At the same time, to the extent that we are not in an environment and an economy that is growing and where we are seeing some of that movement up in short-term rates, if we are not seeing that there are other actions that we are going to need to take within the Company.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, great. That is very helpful, thanks.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura Securities .

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES : Good morning. So one thing that we did see over the past year is a pretty robust pace of DTA consumption, which certainly helped boost your capital ratios. I know when contemplating DTA utilization the mechanics can be quite complicated, but how should we think about the potential level of progress as we enter 2014 as your earnings profile continues to improve?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I would say on that that as we work through 2014 a fairly healthy percentage of what would show up in the tax provision line will not reduce our regulatory capital. And as we go out in 2015 and beyond how quickly the balance of that goes is going to be a function of profitability.

But what I would say is that as it relates to working through the DTA, and it is a complicated calculation, that we should get a very large amount of what we pay in taxes back in regulatory capital during 2014.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay, great. Then just thinking about some of the profitability targets you highlighted, such as the 14% tangible ROE, what are you guys assuming in terms of capital return over that potential horizon?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Unfortunately, I can't answer a way around. We're not going to give any more guidance on CCAR than we have already given.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : It was a good attempt, though.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Fair enough. All right, that is it for me. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Thank you very much. On the origination side, you did talk a little bit about that you are improving our retail side but the refis have gone down. You're down to like 4.5%; where do you see your market share and where do you think you can take your retail market share?

And also, what do you think about non-QMs? I know some banks have come out and said they will start doing some non-QMs. I didn't know where you stand on that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : We think that, ultimately, if you look at our market share and other product capabilities, given the ebbs and flows of the rate environment, Paul -- fast refis, lower refis, whatever is going on. But if you look at it we should be able to better we should be able to -- we have a 10% or 13% deposit share we think in consumer deposits. We have a higher percent in cards, etc. Home equity is bigger. We should be pushing towards upper single-digit level in mortgage.

It just will take time because we are rebuilding that process, which was not geared to serving the core customers, and just doing it. The team has been doing a good job of building that fairly steadily. The purchase volume percent is in the 30%s this quarter and so we are getting there. That is our goal; it will just take us time and we will drive that.

But in terms of direct-to-consumer production, I think we are second largest now and we plan to keep driving.

On the non-QM and things like that we will meet the needs of our customers by using our balance sheet, because remember we do a lot of mortgages today through our wealth management business and stuff and so we will work through the rules. But for the standard products obviously, for the general consumer and the Fannie eligible and Freddie eligible, FHA type products we will be following all the rules and making sure they go through the standard process to get them off the balance sheet and into the securitization process.

But in terms of putting stuff on the balance sheet, I think we meet the needs of customers and we have been doing it for years.

PAUL MILLER: And on the jumbo loans I know a lot of the institutions are going after the jumbo product. You don't break out your jumbo product, but is that an area of focus for you guys? And if it is, what type of yields are you getting on that product?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Inherently, when you have one of the largest wealth management businesses it is a focus. So of our production about 20-odd-percent comes from the wealth management business. And the yields are -- Bruce, I guess the yields on the product are competitive. We have to compete in the market, so it is a market-driven business.

BRUCE THOMPSON : I would say it obviously depends on the product, floating versus fixed, but you are clearly seeing credit spreads on a floating basis where some of those customers in the spreads of 100 to 150 basis points over from a floating rate perspective.

PAUL MILLER: And is there any update on the state of New York, where they stand with approving the Bank of New York settlement of $8.5 billion? Do we know when that is going to come to a conclusion?

BRUCE THOMPSON : We do not. There is no update at all besides the fact that the trial is over. At this point you know what we know.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch , Credit Suisse .

MOSHE ORENBUCH , ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Great, thanks. A couple of things. In the mortgage business I noticed that it looked like the revenue stream from the LAS servicing actually went up from the third quarter. Is that something that will remain at that level, or does that come down kind of with the servicing assets?

BRUCE THOMPSON : The thing you need to look at within legacy assets and servicing, I know it is completely counterintuitive, but recall that the reps and warrants is a contra revenue line item. So we had the lower rep and warranty provision for the quarter was the big delta.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : In terms of the card business, I mean you had talked about the million-plus accounts and you have done that both third and fourth quarter. Just talk a little bit maybe more generally about the strategy there; are there any things that you are doing to kind of maintain or increase that?

Also, on the other side are there other affinity portfolios that your partners are going to ask for back as we go into 2014?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I would say on the affinity side we identified the one -- I think we basically repositioned that business over the last three or four years and I think we are kind of where we are at this point. The strong affinity partners we have that have done well we continue to support them and continue to drive production there.

But the real story on the card business is think about the Cash 1-2-3 product, the Balance Rewards, and the Travel Rewards products, core products that we continue to drive. The production of those products continue to be up significantly year over year and that is what is driving us from a couple of years ago maybe 600,000, probably 700,000 cards a quarter up to 1 million-ish now per quarter. And so that is good because it is our core brand of product with a great product for the consumer and they use it.

So what you are seeing is if you look at some of the detail we give you in the supplement stuff you will see that the average spending is going up, the average spending per card is going up and so that obviously is more efficient and an indicator that you are becoming the primary card in the wallet for customers. With that though one of the drags is the spend rate.

We are in the low 20%s on payment rate. In other words, the people are paying us off and not caring balances because of the affluent customers. So that is a little bit of drag, but they charge enough that you make it through the interchange.

We are very comfortable with the business. We spent three or four years in positioning, but the good news is with the credit quality that we have seen from originations and things like that we are getting a 9% risk-adjusted margin. So we have ended up with the right spot where we are getting production growth, i.e., more cards, with our direct customers with a good, strong margin and we like that.

Then you might say: well, why don't you push it harder because it is returning so well? The issue is to do that you have to go to places where I think it is our core strength and so you should expect us just to grind forward on that.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Got you. Following up on the DTA question, how do you think about and how do you believe the Fed thinks about that DTA consumption kind of as part of a CCAR submission?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think that the interesting thing is that as you move forward into -- as we move forward and you look to test under Basel III NOLs are not eligible as capital under Basel III. So there is good news and there is bad news. The bad news is you don't get to count it. The good news is that it eliminates the likelihood that you have a difference relative to the way somebody else looks at your deferred tax position.

Given that CCAR is based on the way regulatory capital works, that is how the deferred tax asset flows through. And once again under Basel III you don't get to count NOLs.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : So you are saying though they do consider the capital generation as opposed to just your earnings?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I can't comment on the way the Federal Reserve looks at that, but our belief is that is correct.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Thanks, Bruce.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : The point would be this year you are in transition, but as you go forward and the expectation is you move purely to Basel III, this becomes sort of a non-element in that it is out of the calculation already.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Autonomous Research.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Good morning. Question on how we should think about the fact that last year your capital return really included not just the buyback authorization of shares, but also the redemption of the preferreds. So you could add the two numbers together and say $10.5 billion out of last year's CCAR. Is there some conversion factor that we should think of for the preferreds in terms of saying what the 2013 baseline really was?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think as you look at the preferreds that we redeemed the yields on those preferreds were between 8% and 9%. Our belief, and once again I am not going to speak for the Federal Reserve , but I think most people looked at that and said -- at least the way we looked at it was that we look at the heavy content of Tier common that we have and you look at preferred that is 8% to 9% after tax. I think most people would look at that and say it makes good corporate finance sense and it is a good thing for Bank of America to retire those.

Given the work that we have done on the balance sheet, you can see that the majority of what we have left from a preferred stock perspective is priced at competitive rates. So I would be very careful to thinking of and including that preferred stock redemption and assuming that it was evaluated as common stock.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Right, but I mean is there a factor that you used in thinking about what it would convert into in terms of the capital return?

BRUCE THOMPSON : No, because it was straight preferred stock. It had no conversion features whatsoever.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, fair enough. I have had a number of clients ask me the question this morning about the significant increase in the yield on the securities portfolio just from the third quarter to the fourth. Obviously long rates are up a lot, but is it just that or can you link that to the couple hundred million dollar benefit that you were talking about in terms of the market-related impact?

BRUCE THOMPSON : You are absolutely correct. If you adjust for the FAS 91 the delta Q3 to Q4 the increase was only 2 basis points.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it, that helps. I know you said that on the SLR with the Basel add-ons you are still evaluating that, but JPMorgan was out saying yesterday that their estimate was that it probably only increased above and -- beyond the NPR decreased their leverage ratio by about 10 basis points. Are you thinking similar order of magnitude or are you really not in a position to comment at all at this point?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I would make a couple of comments on that, Guy. We have got teams, as you can imagine, culling data and spending a lot of time with it. The couple of comments I would make is that the changes that were made from prior BCBS rules to the new rules, as it relates to both the credit conversion factor as well as the netting for securities financing transactions, clearly are less punitive than what the original BCBS proposals were.

I would say on a very preliminary basis as we look at it I would say that we think the negative or the impact to us was a little bit more than what JPMorgan quoted. That being said, with our ratios above 5% at the parent and above 6% at each of the banks coming into this, we feel like we are in very good shape with respect to compliance with this supplementary leverage ratio.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Fair enough. That is very helpful. Then I guess the final question that I would have for you, and it is along the lines of some of the ones you have been asked about further reductions in the long-term debt footprint.

Obviously there has been some speechifying by members of the Fed about not seeing banks reduce their long-term debt levels much below where they are now. Is there some rule of thumb that you guys are using in the absence of any defined orderly liquidation or bail in capital definition yet as to what you would want your total sort of long-term debt plus Tier 1 capital to look like as a percentage of risk-weighted assets? That you are using as a guidepost to help you figure out how much long-term debt to bring down.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I will let Bruce give you sort of his thoughts on that from his perspective, but before we get there you got to remember what I said earlier is we -- our company has shrunk and our equity has gone up. So when you think about that if you shrunk the Company by $300 billion to $400 billion in size across the last three or four years and your equity balance has gone up then your deposit balance has gone up. The only thing to do to balance the balance sheet is to take the long-term debt footprint down.

That is because we fundamentally got rid of businesses and assets and things that weren't necessary to do what we do today. There is just a difference between us and someone, our peers who have been more organic in how they came together in the last few years.

I would just be careful that -- obviously we work with the Fed and all this redemptions it's not like we can make capital plans and, as you said, liquidation authority and structure. But a lot of our reductions come by just shrinking the scope of the Company to $2.1-and-change-trillion from $2.4 trillion to $2.5 trillion and that is going to allow us to reshape the thing. And then getting rid of assets that were non-core, not yielding.

So I will let Bruce answer the rules, but remember we started from a different place because, as someone said earlier, Merrill had a lot of debt because they didn't have the deposit funding we did. Bruce?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think, Guy, we hear the same thing that you do where we hear the numbers quoted of very high teens that you need to be at from a common, plus your debt footprint that is greater than a year. If we look at where we are today from that metric, we are in the low 20%s today, which as we compare ourselves to our peers is higher than where our peers are.

I think what you are going to see as we go forward, and I referenced this earlier, that this is the last year of big debt maturities where we have got north of $30 billion at the parent that comes due. So I think what you will see for us going forward is you will see us issue less today at the parent than what matures at the parent. As you get out to 2015 and beyond it tends to be much more a $20 billion a year type maturity profile.

The impact in 2015 and beyond -- assuming we continue to do what we should with the balance sheet, the impact in 2015 and beyond is going to be more about the cost at which we are raising debt relative to the debt that we are retiring, whereas we do have one more year, which is this year, of shrink in the actual total amount.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. That is really helpful perspective. Thanks so much for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Matthew Burnell, Wells Fargo .

MATTHEW BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES : Good morning. First I guess a bigger picture question and then just a couple of administrative questions.

You have mentioned a couple of times your view about cards and the progress you are making not only in getting cards in the hands of your customers, but also the use that your customers are taking with the card in terms of charging more. I guess I'm just curious as to what your outlook is for actual balance growth over the course of 2014, presuming that we are in a somewhat better economic environment this year versus the last couple of years.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : If you look at the -- couple things that would drive that. If you look at the last three or four quarters you can see that we have kind of flattened out. Remember around the holidays you get a seasonal bump and it comes out, so Bruce said earlier that you should expect the card balances to come down in the first quarter just because of that. But if you look at it, it has been $90-odd-billion in the US business consistently.

What we did see in the latter part of last year is more usage on the credit side, which from a general economy perspective is actually good news in that people were using the credits versus debit when we look at our usage of the cards and what they are used for in a given quarter. So the credit spending was up better among all the customer bases in October and November and into December. So I would say we are set up to -- because we had gotten rid of the balances of the cards that we were running off, and that is really a very low percentage now, to have the thing stabilize.

I don't think it will have large balance growth because it will kind of work with our -- it will work with our customers and what they are doing and we have a substantial part of the people pay us off. But the good news is underlying it you have seen a little more credit usage fundamentally in the last couple quarters.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Okay. Bruce, I think you mentioned a couple of quarters ago that you were targeting a branch count for the Company, round numbers, around 5,000. You are basically there at the end of this year. Is there potentially a push to get that number materially below 5,000 or at this point do you think you are where you want to be?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I would say when I reference the 5,000 that was in the context of starting at just under 6,000 branches and the work that we were doing with respect to new BAC. I would say that we continue to track towards that 5,000 number.

What is probably a little bit different from what we saw in new BAC is that we have been able to actually sell some of those branches that are, for us, out of market to local banks as they look to build up their local presence, which I think is a good thing for everyone. As we look forward, I think there will be a continued evaluation that we have at this point as to the opportunity and the cost versus the benefit of the branches. But I would directionally think of us being 5,000, maybe a few less than that by the end of 2014 and there will be a continued evaluation that we have beyond that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : We would always focus people on the branch count. It was a fairly objective way to show how we were trying to do it.

The reality now is as you look at the different formats we are always putting new branches in the market. In other words, as leases run off, repositioning the branch, consolidating branches, and adding these express formats that we are testing and stuff. So the definition of a branch is changing in terms from what you would traditionally think.

After the period which Bruce talked about, you are really going to be where the customer is leading you, but the branches are critically important. You always use the example, in one market we were able to take four branches and put them in one larger one; have Merrill teammates, U.S. Trust teammates, and the core personal bankers and teammates in the branch.

So we don't know exactly where this goes because it will be dependent upon customer behavior, but what we do know is we have to dominate the physical side and the e-commerce, online, mobile side at the same time. And that is where we are investing heavily in both platforms. We have a fairly stated probably $0.5 billion we put in the online mobile platform across the last three or four years and we will continue to invest at that rate. You can see the future functionality return and the usage of the platform has grown tremendously.

For example, in the fourth quarter of 2013 9% of all the checks deposited by consumers went through the iPads and mobile phones. That was up from 7% the quarter before and didn't exist until basically the third quarter of 2012. So that is what we are driving, because of customer convenience and usage. At the same time we have 8 million customers coming to the branch and the engagement rate for those customers is going up.

And so the team is less about what number of branches and more about how the distribution process works between phones and ATMs and mobile in branches and express branches, ATAs which are tellers through the branch, and then we are deploying more people to sell in all those regards. And that is what we are trying to do.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Presumably over the next two to three years you could see the square footage of the total branch base come down potentially fairly dramatically given all the electronic delivery mechanisms that you just mentioned?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Yes, dedicated to transactions, but the square footage dedicated to sales could increase.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Fair enough. Then just finally, what was your percentage of mortgage volume this quarter that was dedicated to purchase? And how does that compare to the third quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON : 32% was purchased this quarter. I think it was 21% in the previous quarter.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Okay, that is it for me. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush , NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH , ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. I think we all appreciate the tremendous progress you have made on increasing profitability at the Company and getting things turned around, but there is a perception out there that you are going to have a gap up in profitability when short rates start to go up. Can you just give me your thoughts about that? Is that indeed a correct view?

BRUCE THOMPSON : We look at -- in each quarter look at our asset sensitivity on the balance sheet. As we look out at and our constant metric that we look at is what does 100 basis points do to our net interest income. Obviously that flows directly to the bottom line and at the end of the year 100 basis point move up was worth between $3 billion and $3.1 billion to us from a net interest income perspective.

So we clearly will benefit from short-term rates. We obviously don't control that. And so I think the important thing, Nancy, is that as we look at near-term benefits that we have we continue to have a lot of work to do on expenses in both 2014 and 2015, because we have got another $0.5 billion a quarter of new BAC savings that will get implemented between end of 2013 and end of 2014. Then with the guidance that we gave today another $700 million a quarter to get out going into 2014 to where we end 2014.

So we do look forward to those days of higher rates, but in the meantime we have got a nice chunk of expenses to get out that we do not believe will impact the revenue-generating ability of the Company.

NANCY BUSH : Just kind of to add on to that; do you have a sense at this point -- and this sort of goes back to the previous question. When rates do start up how much will the profitability of -- given everything you have done in the deposit-gathering network, how profitable will that be in the next cycle as opposed to, let's say, I don't know, three or four years ago?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Nancy, if you look at page 11 where we give the profitability of the consumer business banking, and that is obviously the one that benefits the most by the short-term rate rise because they have a huge constitution of deposits that is non-interest-bearing and then picks it up. Then you can look at the returns there and in the supplement and you can see we are up to about $2 billion in after-tax income and the returns clearly exceed the cost of capital.

It will benefit, but in the meantime what we will be doing is driving the cost structure down in the deposit franchise for almost 300 basis points of cost to run the deposit franchise as a percentage of deposits down to 200 and opening that up. So it will absolutely help that business. But, meanwhile, it earned $2 billion this quarter, which is not a bad -- after tax, which is not bad either.

NANCY BUSH : Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, SunTrust Robinson.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks very much. Most of my questions have been answered, but just one small question also on the mortgage business.

Doing the simple gain on sale mathematics it looks like you had a rebound in your gain on sale sequentially, which is pretty consistent with what we have seen from others. But the magnitude looked much greater. It looked as if your gain on sale in the period was back to, more or less, year-ago levels, which doesn't seem intuitively right so I just wanted to get your view on that.

BRUCE THOMPSON : There was one piece internally between the LAS or, excuse me, the home loan space within LAS and what we have in all other. So if you adjusted that out you are not seeing material changes in the gain on sale.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : The core production margins that has come down and stayed pretty flat at the levels. Don't read into that is something we are doing, something different.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Got it. So just sequentially you would characterize the margins as largely flat, is that right?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Yes.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: You said the banking backlog was up. Was that versus the third quarter or year over year? And can you quantify that?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think I characterized the backlog as strong at this point, and I would say it is strong both relative to the third quarter as well as to the year-ago period.

MIKE MAYO: And which areas in particular?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think the interesting thing that we have seen coming into this is that the M&A business, and if you look at activity levels and just what has been announced over the course of the last week, that it does feel like that some of the -- the M&A deals that are being talked about are going to happen. Obviously there are a number of them that are still being negotiated and may or may not happen, but M&A activity clearly feels like it is beginning to pick up and ramp up from what we have seen.

You saw within the overall debt businesses very good growth, both year over year as well as linked quarter, and I would say that that business, as well as the market conditions, continue to be quite strong. You then move to the equity side. The fourth quarter was obviously a very good quarter from an IPO perspective.

Typically coming into the year you have a little bit less visibility on that, because a lot of that tends to happen after people wrap up their year-end numbers. But given overall valuations and what we are seeing, we are optimistic on the equity side as well. So I think there is not one piece that we look at within those pipelines that don't feel pretty good.

The only thing I would say as a brief cautionary note is that you are comping against a period that is the highest investment banking revenue period we have ever seen in the history of the Company.

MIKE MAYO: Then switching gears, the wealth management margin, 26.6%, can you give that to us excluding U.S. Trust? It just helps with apples to apples comparisons with peers.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : U.S. Trust adds maybe 150 to 200 basis points to it.

MIKE MAYO: Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Mike, so that gives you a sense of it. But be careful; what drives our margin is what I said before. It is the wholistic nature of the Merrill Lynch wealth management business. In there they have the wonderful classic investment business, but also they have a good deposit base and a good loan base and all the work the team does there under [John Thiel]. But it adds about 150, 200 basis points.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Loan utilization in commercial and wholesale, where does that stand?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Within commercial it continues to be in the very low 30%s.

MIKE MAYO: So no change?

BRUCE THOMPSON : No change. The only thing that we are seeing that is a little bit of change, and we have talked about it before, is the -- if you look at the amount of funded commercial and corporate loans relative to our total commitments, that has been very much a focus of what Tom has looked at. And we have seen that migrate up to where it is just under 50%.

So while we are not seeing line utilization as much, we are seeing across our commercial and corporate books that the funded commitments relative to total commitments has increased.

MIKE MAYO: I wasn't sure; what is our net interest margin outlook for the next quarter or two? You mentioned FAS 91 for the debt security yield. To what degree, if the yield curve has flattened here a little bit here recently, do you give some of that back on the net interest margin?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think that we talked about that which drove the margin in the fourth quarter. I would say that across the board the margin was very strong in the fourth quarter. You have seen numbers in the low 240s; you have seen it at 251. I would think about that being generally range bound at this point in time with what we see.

MIKE MAYO: And with regard to new BAC, can you just repeat how much do you have left and how much do you think hits the bottom line this quarter? You spent a little bit more money for revenues, which I guess makes sense if you have the opportunity, but I just want to size that again.

BRUCE THOMPSON : We have said that we have got $500 million to get through over the course of the next four quarters and I would say that is going to generally be earned over time. So I wouldn't think of it being any more than 100, 125 is generally the way that you will see it phase in.

MIKE MAYO: I'm sorry, like $100 million to $125 million per quarter then and that should hit the bottom line, or you might look at reinvesting those gains?

BRUCE THOMPSON : Well, we have committed to saying that our new BAC savings have to be net savings to the Company with the caveat that to the extent that businesses are doing more revenues from where we started that will pay out. And that is what we did see during the fourth quarter from both the global banking side as well as wealth management.

Keep in mind, and I think this is important as you look at the first quarter, is that we have got two things that generally happen in the first quarter. One that we know does and one historically that trend would suggest it does. I mentioned the FAS 123 that you have in the first quarter. We know that is going to be an incremental $900 million.

The other thing that historically has been true is that the sales and trading business the first quarter historically is the most significant quarter within that business. So the incentive compensation, given that we accrue based on revenues, tends to be seasonally highest in the first quarter. You add that plus the $900 million I mentioned and it is not an insignificant number.

We, once again, feel very good we will get the net new BAC savings on a net basis over the course of 2014. Just realize that the first quarter has those two components.

MIKE MAYO: Then lastly, you mentioned a goal for an ROA of 1% over three years and I just want to understand what you mean by that. Do you mean at the end of 2016 going into 2017 you look to have an ROA of 1%, or do you mean the average over these three years?

BRUCE THOMPSON : What we are referencing is at the end of it -- as we look at over three years, at the end of the third year that is where we would look to get to which, given our current leverage profile, is around 14% on tangible common.

MIKE MAYO: So at the end of 2016 you look to have an ROA of 1%?

BRUCE THOMPSON : That is correct.

MIKE MAYO: With the forward curve the way it stands. And with that, with those assumptions what sort of change do you expect with the certificates of deposits or CDs, which are historically low for you and others? Do you have money moving out of CDs at that point or not yet? You are around 15% of deposits; historically it is around 35%.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I would say the general expectation should be that that number is going to be at or probably move down a touch from where we are today given the performance of the core deposit franchise.

MIKE MAYO: Then in your page 49 of the proxy it mentions PRSUs and they kick in with an ROA of only 0.5%, whereas you seem to be shooting for an ROA of 1%. How will your new expectations here for the next three years translate into kind of more formalized metrics or compensation? Is it more than simply a general target? How does it kind of sink into the organization?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think the targets that we have for performance we will put out in the proxy this year when the Board goes through the process over the next several weeks here, Mike. But I think in the past it has been based on getting us back to a level of profitability in the Company and that is what is reflected.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. In very simple terms, if you look for a 1% ROA on $2 trillion of assets, you hope to be at kind of a $2 annual run rate in the later 2016?

BRUCE THOMPSON : The one piece, and once again we are not going to give it, is that if you are just doing that simple math you have not made any assumption with respect to the change in shares. Once again, given that we are in the middle of CCAR, we are not going to comment on that, but you do have some benefit over time through share count.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Derek De Vries, UBS .

DEREK DE VRIES, ANALYST, UBS : Good morning, guys. I just have two questions. First, I think in the December conference you mentioned there has been a 70% increase in referrals to wealth management from other parts of BAC. I was just wondering if you could elaborate on that a little bit.

Is that environment driven or have you implemented some specific programs? And then maybe just give us a sense of how meaningful those referrals have been at the net income level?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : We have a very stringent program that is driven in each market by our marketing president and teammates where we count the referrals that go in, we count the close rate, and who participates in all of that. And then markets are stack ranked and we monitor it monthly to see how they are doing and reward the people doing well.

We set aggressive goals and this year for 2013 they hit all the goals. Every market was in good shape and so it is a fundamental way that our teams operate in the markets together.

When you get specifically into things that work well for wealth management, you have the connectivity when there are liquidity events, so-called business sales, IPOs, and things like that, where we bring in business. We will get through November and I haven't seen a final count yet.

We have about 675 401(k), retirement plan closed sales in 2013 and we had about 200 and some in 2012. That is driven through the Merrill institution of retirement planning business that [Andy Sieg ] and John Thiel drive and delivered between national teams and the financial advisors in the market.

So that gives you the kind of sense of how this works. The dollars of that is in the $5 billion, $6 billion range, if I remember exactly so it is all those types of flows.

And then it is several tens of thousands of customers come from the consumer bank into the wealth management platform referred from the preferred team. But that goes on and those customers, they come into the branch, they have asset bases that are consistent with Merrill Lynch and U.S. Trust service models we move them in. So it is a whole bunch of things, but it is tracked, literally, person by person to make sure that it happens.

But, frankly, the teams like to work together and win in the market. And that is what you see when you go into our markets and talk to the teams that do it.

DEREK DE VRIES: Okay. Then switching gears entirely and just talk about the leverage finance business. I think when you look at the industry you are seeing record (inaudible) issuance and you are seeing some pretty favorable pricing for issuers. How do you think about this business over the next few years, both from a revenue perspective but also from a risk management perspective?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I would say the leverage finance business is a very good business for us. If you look at historically we are number one or number two in that business, and if you look at -- on an overall basis if you look at our debt origination, both investment grade as well as non-investment grade, it tends to be an $800 million to $1 billion a quarter type revenue stream.

As it relates to the risk -- and we believe, particularly given some of the new capital guidelines and the competitive landscape, that we are doing better in that business than we have. From the risk management perspective of it you have got two different components of it.

You have the underwrite to distribute component to it, which one of the most notable changes I think has been over the last couple years is the risk gets distributed from the underwriter to the investor generally much quicker, even in the context of deals that have a lag time from the time that they are committed to to where they are distributed. So that is a positive from a risk management perspective.

Then, with respect to the hold pieces, we continue to be very disciplined with respect to the hold levels that we have on those deals. The other thing I would say is, if you just look at mix of business now relative to what you saw 12 months ago, a lot more of the leverage finance business tends to be coming from corporate customers that are either privately held or public. And as valuations have gone up less of it tends to come from the private equity firms.

It is a business that we think that we are very good at. Our team has done a very good job of being mindful of the risk that is associated with it over the last couple years and it is a business that we are optimistic about.

DEREK DE VRIES: Okay. Maybe just to follow up, so just to paraphrase what you said, you are very comfortable on the risk management side and you have taken market share it sounds like. But I don't think you gave an answer in terms of where you think the revenue outlook is for this business over the next couple of years.

BRUCE THOMPSON : The revenue outlook, I think in many respects, as we look out at the profitability we feel very good about the outlook. This is probably the business that most benefits from increased M&A activity, particularly on the corporate side. So to the extent that corporate M&A picks up, you would look to see this business continue to have favorable trends.

The word of caution would just be that it is a market-dependent business and, as you all know, periodically there are gaps in time where the new issue market, particularly on the high-yield side, does slow down, sometimes materially. But on balance we feel very good about the business going forward.

DEREK DE VRIES: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt , Evercore Partners .

ANDREW MARQUARDT , ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS : Morning, guys. Just wanted to go back to the retail branch banking strategy shift and, Brian, you have been clear about this evolution of everyone having a branch in their pocket, so not totally surprised about targeting maybe shrinkage in branch count in 2014 and 2015. But, to frame it out a little bit more, does that provide additional expense leverage beyond what you have long been talking about on new BAC and LAS, or is there an investment spend component that we need to be mindful as well?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : The relative amount, obviously, you are getting more and more to the core franchise, so the relative amount of movement we can make -- and remember, couple that with we are investing in people and we are investing in technology to make it all work. And so I would be careful about assuming -- we are always going to be working this, that is our job, but I would be careful about assuming beyond the new BAC cost that Bruce talked about that there will be a lot net after that. Only because we are investing so heavily in the electronic space, which is still building in front of us.

But the theme is right; it is really how do you keep driving down the overall operating cost of all the platforms relative to the revenue stream and the deposit base obviously, because that drives a lot of the revenue stream in the business. And so I wouldn't hold the bottom line, but you should assume that we are going to be diligent in terms of managing that transition to help provide more investments, frankly, as we can.

ANDREW MARQUARDT : And where do you think you are in terms of that investment cycle for mobile banking, other deliverables?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : We have got a great product and we just -- I think we are at a steady state. We spend just overall, we decide which business, about $3-billion-and-change in annual technology development, just development, and we expect that number to stay constant over time here. And as we take (multiple speakers)

ANDREW MARQUARDT : On an annual basis?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : On an annual basis, yes. We are rebuilding a system, so I think that -- but that is all built into the dialogue we had about new BAC.

ANDREW MARQUARDT : Got it, that is helpful. Then separate, but sort of related on expenses, so with new BAC that is left to realize in LAS how much of that should we have kind of a step function down on the absolute level of expenses off the core 4Q run rate of, call it, $15.5 billion type level? Should we see by the end of 2014 I guess heading into 2015 should we take out $1.5 billion or are there other costs related to maybe investment spend elsewhere that we need to be mindful of?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : I think if you look at the chart we gave you we try to isolate on the costs on page, the bar chart on page nine. You can see that the red bars are sort of the core if take out the litigation and LAS. You have to put some back because there will always be litigation. You have to put some back for just running the servicing portfolio, but we are shooting to drive into numbers that -- take those numbers and then you have to grow them and be careful of the FAS 123 type of thing and which quarter you are looking at.

But our job is to keep driving towards that core expense base. Then as you grow, if we are growing revenues -- the economy growth rate 100 basis points above that, we will grow expenses probably half of that. And that takes a lot of work to keep that expense down because the people content reaches 50%, 60% of our expense base. Our people do a great job and we will pay them.

BRUCE THOMPSON : I would just add that, Andrew, on the LAS piece we guided to roughly $1.1 billion at the end of the year. So with respect to the gray bar on page nine that Brian referenced, I would look at and think about $1.8 billion to $1.1 billion happening generally pro-rata over the course of the year.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : We still got a lot of clean up there. If you look at one of our peers announced yesterday, you can see that they are probably doing their mortgage servicing expenses maybe 30% to 40% of ours, and that is because we just are still getting through the higher delinquency content portfolio. And it lags a little bit getting the stuff done.

ANDREW MARQUARDT : Got it, that is helpful. Then, Bruce, you have said I think in some of your prepared remarks that credit quality continues to improve into this year. Should we read into that that there is still meaningful credit leverage left to be realized in terms of reserve releases, or are we closer to the end here in magnitude?

BRUCE THOMPSON : I think you are closer to the end on magnitude from a reserve release perspective. It always a little bit hard to predict obviously because the reserve releases are a function of what is happening in the underlying credit. But generally, Andrew, I would say that you expect to see charge-offs continue to decline.

And you are obviously going to see the reserve releases, given the magnitude that they have been, you are going to see those slowdown as well with the one delta just being what is the overall loan growth that you are seeing.

ANDREW MARQUARDT : Got it, thanks. Then just lastly, just to wrap up some of the Q&A on the CCAR capital deployment. Just to be clear, it seems like one should not use kind of the $10 billion combined kind of preferred and common last year as a base. It really needs to be kind of a $5 billion as the baseline on common that you got approved for last year.

Hopefully we will make our own assumption, but it seems like it is fair to assume you could move upward in terms of deployment this year off that kind of base. Is that fair summarization?

BRUCE THOMPSON : We agree with your characterization of the $10 billion number.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : You are trying to creatively ask the same question. You are doing a good job.

ANDREW MARQUARDT : Okay. Thanks, guys.

BRUCE THOMPSON : That was our last question, so once again thanks, everyone, for joining us.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN : Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes our conference call for today. You may now disconnect your lines and everyone have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140117ea1f002xm
  


 HD
 Q3  2013  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,667 words
   PD
16 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to the Bank of America third-quarter earnings announcement. (Operator Instructions) Please be advised today's program may be recorded.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Lee McEntire. You may begin.

LEE MCENTIRE, SVP IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning to those on the phone and joining us by webcast. Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation, which is available at BankofAmerica.com, does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. Please see our press release and SEC documents for further information.

So with that, let me turn it over to our CEO, Brian Moynihan.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Lee. Good morning, everyone. I will cover a few points, and then I will turn it over to Bruce to go through the details of the quarter, as we have done in other quarters.

Consistent with prior quarters, our Company continued to show progress on the areas we have been focused upon -- capital generation, managing risk, achieving cost savings, addressing legacy issues, and driving our core growth strategies in our core lines of business.

On the capital front this quarter, we generated $3 billion-plus of Basel 1 Tier 1 common capital. Our Basel 3 ratios now approach 10% on a fully phased-in basis. That capital and liquidity and the balance sheet optimization that has been going on for the last several quarters holds us in good shape with regards to the regulatory suggested or proposed requirements that we see on the horizon.

The strength and capital is allowing us to return capital to shareholders. In the past six months we have repurchased 140 million shares, equalling about $2 billion of our $5 billion authorization.

Turning to the revenue side, we have experienced relative stability this quarter. But of course we felt the impacts of the industrywide headwinds on a slower refi business in mortgage and a slowdown in the capital markets from a typical summer slowdown as well as the investor concerns of a political and monetary uncertainty.

On expenses, this quarter we incurred additional litigation costs. Outside of that we continue to make progress on our expense initiatives, remaining on track to deliver the cost savings that we told you about two years ago in New BAC, and also reducing the costs in our Legacy Assets and Servicing area.

In the credit area we continue to see asset quality improve, and our net loss rates are at levels not seen since 2005. As the macro environment slowly improved we experienced a 20% drop in net charge-offs and a decline in delinquencies from the second quarter.

Our 248,000 teammates have been fully engaged with our customer clients to drive activity. We are pleased to see another quarter of solid loan growth in our commercial businesses, while we continue to see the consumer lending activity stabilize in our card balances and modest growth elsewhere, which has offset the runoff in our non-core portfolios.

As a Company, we reached record deposit levels this quarter, more than $1.1 trillion in deposits. Our client balance flows in our Wealth Management clients helped us maintain our industry-leading positions. And you have seen that Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch has assumed prominent roles in the marquee investment banking deals that have gone on this quarter.

We have also seen a nice trend of progress, absent some seasonality, of results in our equity trading business. It has been gaining market share and continuing to improve.

So to sum it up, it is another solid quarter of progress in our core businesses; and I'm going to turn it over to Bruce to cover in detail the presentation. Bruce?

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. I am going to start my presentation on slide 5. During the quarter, we earned $2.5 billion or $0.20 per diluted share.

Before I address the core business trends let me mention a few noteworthy items from our results that we have disclosed to you previously. First, we sold our remaining stake in CCB, recording a pretax gain of $753 million, which was partially offset by a $443 million negative impact of FVO and DVA, as our as our credit spreads continued to tighten during the quarter. The net of these items benefited EPS by $0.02 in the quarter.

We also recorded a $1.1 billion charge to remeasure our UK deferred tax asset, given the 3% decline in the tax rate, which reduced EPS by $0.10 a share. The net of these is obviously a reduction of $0.08.

Moving to the core business, total revenues in the quarter on an FTE basis were solid at $21.7 billion, or $22.2 billion if we exclude the FVO and DVA charges. If we compare this to the second quarter, revenues declined on lower mortgage banking revenue as well as mostly seasonal declines within our sales and trading area.

Total non-interest expense of $16.4 billion included $1.1 billion in litigation costs, a $600 million increase in litigation cost from second-quarter levels. The increase in these costs was partially offset by the improvement in both our Legacy Assets and Servicing costs as well as the benefits of our New BAC initiatives.

Asset quality improved significantly, with net charge-offs improving 20% from the second quarter of 2013 to $1.7 billion. And with the reserve reductions we took in the quarter, we recorded provision expense of just under $300 million in the quarter.

On slide 6 you can see that our period-end balance sheet remained relatively stable versus the prior quarter at about $2.13 billion. Customer activity remained solid with loans, largely led by commercial loans, up $12.8 billion.

Consumer lending activity in the quarter improved as we saw increased loan generation in our Dealer Financial Services area and our continued stabilization of card balances, which was partially offset by the runoff within our home equity portfolio. Period-end deposits were up over $29 billion or 2.7%, led by commercial client activity and solid flows from our Wealth Management clients.

If we move down the page, tangible book value per share improved to $13.62, and our tangible common equity ratio increased above 7%.

A couple other things that I would like to mention during the quarter. We repurchased 60 million shares for roughly $900 million during the quarter. OCI increased by about $900 million during the quarter. And our preferred stock includes the completion of our previously announced preferred stock redemption for just under $1 billion.

On slide 7 you can see our Basel 1 Tier 1 common ratio of 11.08% increased 25 basis points from the second quarter of 2013. Under Basel 3 on a fully phased-in basis under the Advanced Approach, Tier 1 common capital increased by approximately $6 billion to an estimated $131.8 billion. Our Tier 1 common ratio is 9.94%, showing a 34 basis point improvement from the second quarter of 2013.

And our estimate of the Basel 3 Tier 1 common ratio on a fully phased-in basis under the Standardized Approach would be just over 9% above our proposed 8.5% 2019 minimum requirement.

If we move to the supplemental leverage ratio, based on the proposed US requirements that don't take effect until 2018, at the end of the third quarter our bank holding company leverage ratio improved to above the proposed minimum of 5%; and our two primary banking subsidiaries, BANA and FIA, continue to be in excess of the 6% proposed minimum.

So to reiterate what Brian mentioned, there are a lot of new capital regulations proposed or finalized, and we already exceed the requirements for the various known rules on Basel 3 capital and the supplementary leverage ratio.

On slide 8, funding and liquidity, you can see our long-term debt ended the quarter $7 billion lower as maturities and the completion of our $5 billion tender offer outpaced issuances. We have $40 billion of parent Company maturities through 2014; and as we look forward, we expect issuances to be materially below that number as we continue to reduce and smooth the maturity profile of our debt footprint.

Global excess liquidity sources of $359 billion increased from $342 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2013, and parent Company liquidity remained strong at $95 billion. That translates into a Time to Required Funding of 35 months, well above our two-year coverage that we target.

I would also like to highlight that on October 1 of this year we have completed the legal entity merger of the Merrill Lynch Holding Company into Bank of America Corporation as part of our continued efforts to both simplify the Company and reduce cost.

We turn to slide 9, net interest income. Net interest income on a reported basis was $10.5 billion, down from the second quarter of 2013, as the improvement in our core net interest income was more than offset by a negative impact from market-related impacts. If we exclude those market-related impacts, net interest income built off of Q2 2013's $10.4 billion to be just north of $10.5 billion.

During the quarter, we benefited from higher rates in our discretionary book, lower long-term debt levels, higher commercial loans, and lower rates paid on deposits. These positives were partially mitigated by lower loan yields and lower trading-related NII.

As you will note on the slide, the net interest yield excluding market-related impacts improved from 2.36% to 2.44%, driven by the lower balance sheet levels as well as our lower funding cost. And consistent with what we mentioned last quarter, we expect to realize the benefit of higher long-term rates as we reinvest, but note that some of those benefits will occur through time.

On slide 10, we will spend a few minutes on expenses. Total expenses for the quarter were $16.4 billion, a $1.1 billion improvement from the year-ago quarter, but up $371 million from the second quarter of this year.

I want to be clear. As you look at expenses and see the uptick in the linked-quarter expense, we continue to deliver on our non-litigation expense reductions in our Legacy Assets and Servicing area as well as the ongoing benefits from our New BAC initiatives in the balance of the Company.

Compared to the second quarter of 2013, progress on LAS and New BAC, in addition to lower revenue-related incentive compensation, was more than offset by increased cost of litigation as well as some marketing initiatives that were accelerated from the fourth quarter of 2013. Our litigation expenses did increase as the continued evaluation of legacy exposures led to an addition to reserves.

Our LAS expenses ex-litigation, which are shown on the gray bar on slide 10, of $2.2 billion declined $110 million from the second quarter of 2013. And we continue to expect our fourth-quarter LAS expenses ex-litigation to be below $2 billion as we continue to make very good progress on reducing the number of 60-plus-day delinquents that we have in that business.

Our New BAC savings in the third quarter were approximately $100 million and are included in All Other, the red bar. We also remain on track to achieve the expected $1.5 billion of New BAC quarterly cost benefits by the end of 2013 and ultimately the $2 billion quarterly benefit upon completion of the project.

From an employee staffing perspective, our number of FTEs ended the quarter at 248,000, a decline of more than 9,000 or 3.6% from the second quarter of 2013. That was driven by staff reductions within our Legacy Assets and Servicing area, declines in home loans given the slowdown in mortgage production, as well as the continued optimization of our branch network.

While we were down by 3.6% from the end of the second quarter to the end of the third quarter, the average FTEs only declined 2.3%. So we will get some additional benefits during the fourth quarter relative to the third from those reductions.

We touched on asset quality, slide 11. You can see that credit quality once again improved significantly. Net charge-offs declined to $1.7 billion, a 20% improvement on a linked-quarter basis.

As Brian referenced, our third quarter of 2013 loss rate of 73 basis points declined 21 basis points from the second quarter and is now at 2005 levels. Delinquencies, a leading indicator of charge-offs, again declined nicely.

During the quarter, we did reduce reserves by $1.4 billion on the back of steadily improving consumer data, which resulted in a provision expense of just under $300 million. Given what we see from the improving delinquencies as well as the current HPI trends, absent any unexpected changes in the economy, we expect net charge-offs to decline again in the fourth quarter and stabilize sometime in 2014 at approximately $1.5 billion per quarter.

Let's move into the individual lines of business on slide 12. Our Consumer and Business Banking segment, we were very pleased with the results during the third quarter as we delivered improved earnings, with revenues growing modestly and expenses declining from both the previous quarter as well as the year-ago quarter. This, coupled with lower credit costs within the segment resulted in net income of approximately $1.8 billion during the quarter, a 28% improvement over the previous quarter and a 32% improvement over last year.

That was achieved as we continued to do more business with our core customers. Our average deposits were stable as our organic customer growth was offset by small branch divestitures as well as migrations to our Global Wealth and Investment Management area.

Our brokerage assets are at record levels within this business, up 6% from the second quarter and up 18% over the prior year's quarter. Average loans, as I mentioned, reflect stability in card balances as well as growth within our Dealer Financial Services area.

Card issuance during the quarter remained strong. We issued more than 1 million new cards in the third quarter, which is at the highest level going back to 2008. Consistent with our relationship strategy, 63% of this issuance was to people that we have existing relationships with.

And credit quality continues to be strong as delinquencies and net losses continued to improve during the quarter. Reduced expense levels in the segment reflect the benefits of our network optimization, partially offset by investments we continue to make as we build out our specialist salesforce in this area.

On slide 13, Commercial Real Estate Services, where we operate the production, origination, and servicing of consumer real estate loans. In our supplemental information we report the two separate components of this segment, one focused on loan origination and the other focused on servicing and legacy issues.

On originations this quarter, first mortgage retail originations were $22.6 billion, which was down 11% from the prior quarter and up 11% compared with originations in the year-ago period. We believe that the current-period decline in production is less than our industry peers, as we have been working through our existing pipeline.

Our current pipeline at the end of the third quarter is, however, down approximately 60% compared to the end of the second quarter of 2013, which reflects the significant reduction in market demand, particularly in the refinancing space. Since our production revenue is booked at the point in which you lock a loan, as opposed to funding, I should point out that our lock volume was down 23% from the second quarter of 2013.

In addition to those lower lock volumes, we saw a gain on sale margins decline compared to the second quarter of 2013. Our reduction was about 60 basis points during the quarter.

As a result of all these factors, core production revenue was down 46% to $465 million from the second quarter of 2013.

From a staffing point of view, just on the origination side, as we saw demand slow we reduced headcount by more than 1,000 employees toward the end of the quarter. We will continue to reduce these staffing levels, to be consistent with the lower volumes that we have seen.

The other primary component in this segment, servicing revenue, declined approximately $100 million versus the second quarter as our servicing portfolio declined as we continued to complete certain servicing transfers.

The other item that I want to highlight on this slide that is particularly important is the servicing costs that we see within the Legacy Assets and Servicing area. We have spoken a lot about reducing the number of 60-plus-day delinquencies in this portfolio, and we had a lot of success during the quarter as the number of 60-plus-day delinquent loans dropped below 400,000 units at the end of September, nearly 100,000 lower than what we had at the end of June.

Roughly half of the decline was driven by the transfers of servicing that I referenced in conjunction with the MSR sales agreements that we announced in the first quarter of 2013. Once again, as a result of this work we continue to believe that our LAS expenses, ex-litigation, will be below $2 billion during the fourth quarter of 2013.

On slide 14, our Global Wealth and Investment Management area had another strong quarter, generating solid earnings and solid returns. Within this segment, both Merrill Lynch and U.S. Trust maintained their leadership positions with a total of $2.3 trillion of client balances.

Revenue remains near record highs at $4.4 billion, up 8% over the third quarter of 2012. Relative to the third quarter of 2012, net income improved 26% and was the third consecutive quarter in which our pretax margin was above 25%.

Asset management fees achieved a new record during the quarter, while our brokerage income did decline from the second quarter due to reduced market activity.

Client engagement remains quite strong. Long-term AUM flows were $10.3 billion, near doubling last year's production. Ending deposits were up $6.5 billion or roughly 3% from the prior quarter; and our ending client loan balances of $117.2 billion reached record levels and are up 2% from the second quarter of 2013 and 11% over the third quarter of a year ago as we continue to provide more banking products to both our Merrill Lynch and U.S. Trust clients.

On slide 15, you can see Global Banking earnings were stable relative to the year-ago period. Revenue compared to a year ago includes the benefit of strong loan growth and stable investment banking fees.

Expenses this quarter include very good cost controls offset slightly by elevated litigation expense. Global fee pools did decline, but we maintained our strong second-place ranking of global net investment banking fees, recording $1.3 billion of fees and improving our market share to 7.7%.

In addition, if you look at it fees within the Americas, we ranked number 1 with an 11% market share. During 2013, we have advised on 7 of the top 15 announced M&A deals.

As we head into the last quarter of the year, the pipeline looks quite strong. But I do want to highlight that during the fourth quarter of last year we did see record levels of debt issuance during that period.

If we look at the balance sheet, average loans increased $4.4 billion from the second quarter, with more than half of that growth driven by commercial real estate lending, with the balance by C&I lending, particularly with our large corporate clients. Average deposits increased $12.2 billion from the second quarter of 2013, above our expectations, given certain timing considerations as well as customer liquidity that has been built around fiscal cliff concerns.

If we move to slide 16, Global Markets, we earned $531 million during the quarter after excluding the $1.1 billion UK tax charge as well as DVA losses of $291 million. On a comparable basis, this is a decrease of $341 million compared to the third quarter of 2012 and down $403 million from the second quarter of 2013 due to lower sales and trading revenue as well as higher expense from litigation.

Sales and trading revenue, ex-DVA, was $3 billion during the quarter, an 8% declined from the comparable year-ago period. FICC sales and trading revenue was down 20% versus the year-ago period, once again impacted by concerns regarding the Fed's position on its stimulus program as well as political uncertainty both domestically and abroad.

Our equity sales and trading area had another very strong quarter with revenues, ex-DVA, up 36% over the year-ago period as we experienced higher market volumes and continued to benefit from the repositioning of this business that has happened over the last 18 months. We are gaining market share and we are improving our performance in each of the product lines.

Expenses in the quarter compared to the third quarter of 2012 included higher litigation costs that were partially offset by a reduction in operating expenses. Average trading-related assets were down 4% from the year-ago period while our VaR was effectively flat.

On slide 17, we show you the results of All Other. Gains on the sale of debt securities were $347 million in the third quarter, down $105 million from the second quarter of 2013. You can also see the breakout of $1.1 billion of equity investment income, which reflects the CCB gains I mentioned earlier as well as an additional $368 million of gains.

The FVO that I mentioned earlier is also recorded in this segment. Expenses include roughly $350 million during this quarter for litigation. That compares to $100 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $950 million in the third quarter of 2012.

As we close on All Other, I would note that the effective tax rate for the quarter, ex-the impact of the UK tax reduction charge, was 25%. And as we look forward to the fourth quarter of 2013, we expect the effective rate to be in the high 20%s.

Before we take questions I would like to leave you with several thoughts about our results. Capital and liquidity both strengthened during the quarter. We had encouraging business results as we saw improvement in both activity and profitability within Consumer and Business Banking.

We saw continued strength in Global Wealth Management. We maintained our top position in Investment Banking and had another quarter of strong growth in our equity sales and trading business.

Credit continued to improve. Our cost initiative work remains on track. And to the extent that the steepened yield curve environment stays with us, it should allow us to move NII upward as we move forward.

We will continue to execute on our strategy and continue to deliver on the earnings power of the Company. With that we will go ahead and open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. In addition, the slides have got a good breakdown of the rep and warrant reserving. Could you talk a little bit about the litigation and how to think about the litigation costs as we go forward? Because that is obviously still volatile. Maybe discuss what is still remaining that could get roped into that as we go forward.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think, Moshe, what I would say is that if you look, as we referenced, it was roughly $1.6 billion a year ago. It was $500 million in the second quarter, and it was roughly $1 billion this quarter.

I'd go back to -- and I think we've been pretty consistent. If you go back to 2010 and look at the build over the course of four years from both a litigation and a rep and warrant perspective, I think you can see that we have had more of that over the course of a three-and-a-half year period than anyone else out there.

And as we look at the remaining pipeline we put it in really four different buckets. The first is the GSE bucket for rep and warrant, which with one exception we have got global settlements from the end of 2008 back with Freddie and Fannie. So as we look at that bucket we feel very good about that.

We then go to the second bucket which is mono-lines. You've got global settlements with three of the five mono-lines, and we have established the reserves for the remaining two based on that history of the three.

We then go to the rep and warrant. With respect to the private label securities, the $8.5 billion Gibbs & Bruns case, which represents half the exposure, continues to go through the court process and we'll be back in court on that I believe in November. And obviously we set up reserves at that point based on the Gibbs & Bruns history; and as we have said before, for that which we didn't have the basis to establish a reserve, we put out a range of possible loss for rep and warrant that continues to be up to $4 billion.

And then you move into the other piece that we have, that's the RMBS securities litigation. During the quarter, the Luther, Maine settlement received preliminary approval during the quarter, and we will look to get final approval by that sometime during the fourth quarter. And we obviously set up a reserve; and that settlement was for $500 million which represents in the ZIP Code of 65% to 70% of the Companywide exposure that we have for RMBS litigation.

And then the other two pieces that we continue to work through in that bucket are the HAFA litigation on behalf of Freddie and Fannie as well as AIG. And there is really nothing to report new on either of those fronts.

And what you saw during the quarter, as we said, was really an adjustment to the reserves based on as we get more information and to the extent that there are additional discussions with some of the people that we're in a party with those discussions, too.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: I guess just to follow up on that, because JPMorgan had indicated that they had expenses in this quarter that were substantially higher than what they would have anticipated as possible even three months ago because of a change of the regulatory environment. Do you feel like you have taken that fully into account?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think -- let me be a little bit more specific when we go back to it, because I think the one thing that has been overlooked a little bit -- and this is not a number we are particularly pleased with. But if you go back to the beginning of 2010 and look at the combined litigation and rep and warrant expense that we have had in this Company, it has been over $40 billion, which I think is quite a bit higher than the number that they quoted.

Obviously, those numbers are particular to each institution. But I think as you look at what we have tried to do, that those numbers have been significant and I think at this point relative to our peers we have tried to be out front and get through some of the larger settlements that we have. And we think that $40-billion-plus number reflects that.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Just shifting gears on the mortgage business, you had a decline in rate locks that you identified; but the pipeline actually is down substantially more. Could you talk a little bit about how you see the fourth quarter and into 2014?

Because you have got both the potential for obviously a further decline as the pipeline moves through. But then again you also had a fairly high rep and warrant in the quarter. Like how should we think about that from a revenue perspective?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think let's talk about the production first. You remember that we had a lot of HAMP going on, and that has been dropping each quarter as we get through the volumes of that. And that had a pretty good impact; I think it was down roughly $3.5 billion or so linked quarter.

The rest of the production continues to move forward. But if you look at what is really going on as we speak, because during the third quarter you had significant changes July/August as we ran through pipeline, etc. The current pipeline stands at a level of 30,000-odd. The current application volumes today are 1,000 plus, around 1,000.

The purchased piece of that has maintained relatively constant, 300-ish a day. So if you think about that, we have sort of a month-and-a-half pipeline, and that has been pretty consistent as we got into September and to October. So if you extrapolate that out you should see production levels that will be down again in the fourth quarter, but will start to mitigate.

The issue on the revenue is the spreads come in and the refinancing volume is at a higher profit margin because the work is not as much. So we expect to see a lot like we are seeing now, spreads that have come in a couple hundred basis points or so, and we expect that to hold and the volumes will come down, and so I think the number will continue to work in that direction.

What you do mention is the other side, which is the rep and warrant exposure, and stuff that goes through there, and stuff that changes it. Bruce can touch on that.

But in terms of overall volumes, we have started taking the people down to match the volumes. You remember we had a lot of work to do here. If you look at our non-HAMP production it has continued to grow each quarter.

Our home equity loan production has doubled in the last few quarters and we'll continue to drive that forward. As we have told you many times it will never be a huge business for this Company, because it is a business which is very competitive out there and the profit margins will always be thin. But we need to do it for our customers and clients.

BRUCE THOMPSON: And on the rep and warrant front, you are right, the rep and warrant expense was just over $300 million a quarter. And we clearly would expect that the run rate of that expense is going to be much more in the $150 million a quarter type run rate as opposed to the $300 million-plus.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it. The very last one for me is you had mentioned expected improvement in charge-offs. The provision obviously was substantially lower. How should we think about the provision relative to those charge-offs in Q4 and into 2014?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think once again our comments will be assuming that we don't see any slippage in the economy. During the quarter, if you look at the reserve release, roughly $250 million of it was from purchased credit-impaired, and roughly $1.150 billion from the core.

As we go forward I would think about the provision -- or excuse me, think about the reserve release much more consistent with what you saw in the first and second quarters of this year over the next couple quarters. And then ultimately as we get into the latter part of 2014 and beyond, you'd expect most of that to go away.

But I do think there are probably another couple quarters where it could be in line with what we saw in the first and second quarter. Clearly not at the third quarter of this year given the sharp improvement in credit we saw.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. Just one follow-up on the conversation that we just had regarding the reps and warranties and litigation. I heard you that the mono-line, three out of five are done; you established reserves for the other two based on the three out of five.

Is that part of the rep and warranty this quarter, the establishing reserves for the other two based on the three out of five done?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, it is not.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then on the litigation reserve, there's obviously a long list of stuff in your Q; so is it fair to say that litigation reserve was just all of the above of that long list? Or was there something specific that you saw in the quarter that drove the higher number?

I am just wondering; do we do the $1 billion quarterly in our model going forward? Or is it going to be more episodic than that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think as we have said, that number tends to be lumpy. And I wouldn't say that there was any one specific item during the quarter that you could point to. It was really just a continued evaluation of the reserves as well as reflective of any current discussions that we are having with the different parties that we are trying to work through this with.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then on the LAS expenses, you indicated that next quarter is sub $2 billion.

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So you highlighted that your delinquents are down half from the asset sales and half from your own actions. So is it fair to say that the reduction, roughly $300 million or so -- well, $200 million to $300 million or so, that you are calling out for next quarter is also equally half and half?

And part of the question is trying to understand. You know the run rate of how those expenses are coming out associated with the asset sale. And I am wondering; is that front-end loaded in 4Q? Is that going to be 4Q through 2Q next year?

And are the organic actions you are taking likely to be equal in size in terms of the decline in the LAS expenses?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think I would say a couple things on that, Betsy. That once again we told you at the end of the second quarter that we would get the number of 60-plus-day units down below 375,000 units by the end of the year. And you can see during the third quarter alone we got them down below 400,000, so we feel particularly good with that guidance.

There is a lot of work that goes on in a quarter to move out and to get these servicing transfers done as it relates to both our own teammates as well as people that we use to help us with that. So that is why you saw some of the numbers Q2 to Q3 a little bit sticky.

But the point that you raise I think is the right one, which is -- now that you've got the loans out you have the ability to take the expense out. And that is why we would expect the expense reduction in the fourth quarter to be greater than what we had seen in the third quarter.

I think as you look out at and as you look through 2014, the guidance that we have given is very -- really remains the same. And we feel more comfortable with, given the delinquencies, that as you go through 2014 you should see that expense number go from below $2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013 to below $1 billion by the end of 2014.

And it always can be a little bit lumpy, but you should see that occur generally consistently throughout the year.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks. Then lastly, on page 7 you highlight the regulatory capital. Obviously it seems like you have set yourself up well for a bigger ask in CCAR from a buyback perspective. Is that a fair assumption to make?

Could you highlight how SLR factors into that? And are your SLR numbers that you present fully loaded in 3Q, or is it on a phased-in approach?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Our SLR numbers are fully loaded at both the Bank Holding Company as well as at the subs. And as we look at CCAR what I would say is I think we have been consistent on this, that we have done it and done everything we can both in the way -- intrinsically the way we run the Company, which in many respects is not inconsistent with what you get tested in CCAR, in that we have built our Basel 1.5 ratio up significantly from last year. The Basel 3 ratios across the board are up.

As you look at both credit risk and market risk, those have obviously gotten better. And we have continued to put the legacy issues behind us.

So as we look at -- we obviously were able to return $5 billion to the common shareholders during this year as part of the CCAR process, and we will look to move forward from that, realizing that until we see the exact case that we are running and what the test is, I think it is probably premature to say anything more than that.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Yes. Hi, good morning. Bruce, was wondering on the net interest income side; do you think that the core NII should grind higher at a similar pace that we saw this quarter? Looks like it was up $100 million, assuming no big change in rates.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think that is fair, John. You are always a little bit subject to mix, loan pricing, as well as rate environment. But that is clearly the trajectory that we are on; so the answer would be yes.

JOHN MCDONALD: How should we think about the market-sensitive component? Do you still have the NII hedges on? Or is it really the FAS 91 that adds volatility from here?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, think it is important -- and the one thing that doesn't come out when you look at this slide is, it is not that we saw much variability in either FAS 91 or hedging effectiveness during the third quarter. It was that we had some benefit in the second quarter when you had the sharp increase in rate.

So as long as you are within a reasonable range where rates aren't bouncing around, you shouldn't see much of that. But keep in mind that what you saw in the first and second quarters was because of the largely unprecedented movement up in rates that we saw, that gave us the FAS 91 benefit.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Over time does that FAS 91 affect dissipate, over time? Or is that always going to be with you?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well, it gets reset so that you don't have any aberration from quarter to quarter. The only time you have an aberration on a run rate basis is when the underlying rates move.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then just any update on your rate sensitivity relative to where you stood at the end of last quarter for a 100 basis point move in long rates?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I want to think we are in the same ZIP Code both on a 100 basis point steepening as well as a 100 basis point parallel shift. The guidance that we have given was it takes us about three years to earn back any impact in OCI.

We are a touch better than that this quarter. If you look at the supplemental you will see that the level of debt securities is down modestly, as we are very sensitive to managing that OCI risk.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then just a follow-up on litigation expense. Back in July you were thinking perhaps $500 million per quarter and clearly came in much higher than that this quarter. Recognize things are fluid here, but should we be thinking of litigation expense more like this quarter or more like last? Are you able to say?

BRUCE THOMPSON: John, that is really difficult to say. I think that the punchline is that it can be lumpy. And we obviously do and work hard each quarter -- to the extent that we can get things put behind us at reasonable levels for the shareholders, we do that.

It is an evolving process and it is something that we are working hard on. At the same time there is no question that the expense was elevated this quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then one more clarification on the core expenses. How much did the expenses come down for mortgage so far and what do you see left on that? And then just any comment on the IB comp ratio, how we should think about that going forward.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. I am not sure I understand your question on the mortgage expense --

JOHN MCDONALD: Yes, any capacity reduction that you are doing as originations come down, have you gotten the benefit from that? And how much might we expect for you to do that going forward?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, as we referenced on the front -- on the legacy piece we talked about the 2.3 going to 2.2 and how we will have that below 2. As we talked about, we needed to get through the pipeline on the front end during the third quarter, which we did. The 1,000 people that we referenced on the front end happened late in the quarter.

As I mentioned we are 1going to continue to reduce t1hat, to size that for the volumes that we are seeing now. But we have not put out a specific number on that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. In terms of IB comp, what we saw this quarter and how we should think about that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, we typically -- if you look at combined Investment Banking and sales and trading you tend to be in the mid to high 30s, and I don't think you are going to see any significant variations in that Q3 to Q4.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: John, one thing on the -- both in the mortgage and otherwise, as Bruce talked about, the actions we've taken during the quarter to reduce headcount overall in the Company, a lot of it is in the second half of the quarter. So you always get a continuing-on effect of that.

And by the way, next quarter as we reduce further LAS and mortgage you will see it go into the first quarter. So it does lag; and it is just the nature of the severance accruals you take at the time plus as we move the headcounts out, paying them on, as you go on the severance also in certain cases.

So you should expect that those volume-related reductions will continue to move forward. And the economics of what we did in the third quarter is probably more in the fourth quarter than it is in the third quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hi, thank you. Question on FICC. I think the explanation on the down 20% was fair enough, and a lot of macro and political reasons, which I get. Just curious on if you had any early comments on swaps execution and clearing impact in the quarter and what you see going forward as clients migrate.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I wouldn't really note any specific change there, Glenn. It is something that we continue to look at. The one thing I would say that we are working hard on -- and this really flips more to some of the capital and central clearing type things -- that as we continue to have more and more of that migrated, that is going to benefit certain capital ratios as we look at counterparty.

So I think that the ongoing -- to the extent that there is an economic negative going forward, we are obviously continuing to spend a lot of time with that. The one piece that is a little bit more tangible that we worked through is that there will be some decent benefits over the course of 12 to 18 months as more and more of that gets migrated.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think as you think about the markets business, one of the things that Tom and team have done is got the -- as we talked about in various quarters -- has kept the breakeven point relatively low. So in a quarter which the equities business was very good for us, comparatively -- but the fixed income business, which is a lot bigger than the equity business, was obviously down -- we still made $0.5 billion.

So the goal there is to be able to serve our clients and customers well and keep the balance sheet in good shape, but also keep the expense base. So that when we get $2.5 billion to $3 billion we start making some decent money. And then in the good quarters we will make a good amount of money, and Tom and team have done a good job to keep that expense base in line.

And most of the expense increase here is with litigation and things that were not fundamental, just show up in line of business related to broader question.

GLENN SCHORR: I appreciate that. Might be putting words in your mouth but it sounds like that there is a pretty good operating leverage built-in on the upside, then. In other words, it doesn't necessarily scale up and down with revenues to the same degree.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, if you just look across the last four quarters you see it. But the key was going from 11 to 12 we move the fundamental level, so there is good operating leverage. You get another $1 billion in revenues, a lot of it comes through net of -- with incremental compensation here.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. One other question just on cards. Looks like issuance and balances have been growing good. I am just curious how much of that is you turning up the heat on marketing, selling through the branches, and how you feel about the outlook. Because it has been a while since we saw the industry in general have decent balance growth.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think a couple things and I'd just kind of reiterate a little bit, we touched on, is that we have made over the course of the last 12 to 18 months the investment of having more bankers in the branches and trying to do more things with our customers. And the two things that we feel best about as you look at that growth in cards to over 1 million cards in the quarter is that -- the first is that 63% of those people, once again, we already have an existing relationship with and obviously know something about and are trying to do more with.

And the second thing I would say is that as you look at the overall FICO and credit quality of those borrowers, they tend to be in the mid-700s on average. So it is the right customer; it is sold the right way; and it is part of an overall deepening strategy.

And now that we are starting to see some of the balances creep up, it is reflective of that activity, which I think, quite frankly, was overshadowed a little bit as we cleaned out some of the affinity and other programs, that the new stuff that you saw got overshadowed by things that were leaving the books. But now that we are largely through that, what we are doing on the front end is starting to come out.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, perfect. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Derek De Vries, UBS.

DEREK DE VRIES, ANALYST, UBS: I just have a detailed question on the OCI. There was a $1.4 billion gain, I think from changes in pension. Could you just explain what that was about?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. What happens is that typically you mark your pension OCI once a year as you update the asset values and assumptions at year end. You typically do that on an annual basis.

Because we merged several pension plans at the end of August, we were required to remeasure those assets as of the end of August. And that $1.4 billion reflects the change in value from Jan. 1 to August 31; and then obviously we will remeasure those again at year end.

DEREK DE VRIES: That's clear. Thanks. Then just on -- talking more generally, you obviously have a lot of corporate relationships, and I guess there is some unease about what is going on in Washington. But assuming we can get through that, do you get the sense that the corporates are looking to move from margin preservation to investment? Or are they just really worried about the macro environment?

I am trying to get a sense of where loan growth could go, going forward.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, I think if you look at our client base, which ranges from small businesses through the largest companies in the world, I would say all of them feel very good about their operating position. They are making money, have done a tremendous job of keeping a cost structure in line.

I had an example of a company that had 200 employees; their sales were going to grow by 25%; and they said we are only going to add five employees. So American business has gotten very efficient.

But when you put on top of them the uncertainties, because they are all engaged in global commerce, the macro uncertainties at the world level, the US level, I think there has been an uncertainty hold-back here that will come through as more and more clarity both in the economy -- i.e., final demand for their products -- and the macro situation comes clear.

So is it a sprint out of the blocks? No. They are running forward; it will probably be a speedup of the process. And you saw some of that this summer with some of the M&A activity and stuff in the larger companies has strengthened and you are seeing it go on.

So I think there is demand in the system, so to speak. There is money on the sidelines from the investor side. And the more clarity, you will see better activity.

Meanwhile, underneath it, you see the core economy continue to push forward even with all the things going on around the world.

DEREK DE VRIES: That's very helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: hey, good morning. Could you talk -- run me through the expense line a little bit on the compensation side? I guess I am just struggling a little bit with, on a year-over-year basis you guys were down around $100 million on the comp line but headcount is down 25,000 employees. Capital markets revenues are down.

Why are we seeing that stay elevated? How do we see that go down more significantly going forward?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. You have a couple things going on. The first thing I would say is that the expense number during the third quarter of last year -- and I'm going to speak to -- if you flip to slide 10 for a moment. That if you look at that All Other bucket, which is I think what you are referring to, that $13 billion in the third quarter last year was particularly low. If you look at where was in the fourth quarter it was at $13.4 billion; so that can bounce around by a couple hundred million dollars. So realize it was off a low base.

You did see a couple things, though, in the third quarter of this year that you wouldn't have had. The first is that the Wealth Management revenues, which there is a fair bit of formulaic compensation, are running at, as I mentioned, at higher levels in 2013 than 2012; so you have some compensation there.

The second thing that you had this quarter, as Brian referenced, is we took down headcount. We had roughly $100 million of severance that came through the P&L during the quarter.

The third thing that you had during the quarter that I referenced is you had some elevated marketing expense that will go down in the fourth quarter, that you also didn't have in the third quarter. So a combination of a variety of items.

But I think what we would say is as you look to go forward you should see that red bar come down based on our overall expense initiatives as well as New BAC.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And remember also that when we give you these reduction numbers we are not giving you a reduction and saying that then we are growing elsewhere. This is a net number that you pointed out. So all the investments we're making and from the third quarter last year to the third quarter of this year, you are seeing the mortgage production costs go up, which will come back down. But all the investment we made in salespeople to do the cards that we talked about earlier, small business lending, investment services that you can see at the branch level, we can see the numbers growing there -- all those are in those numbers.

So all those investments are more commercial bankers that are helping our commercial loan growth. And yet we are overcoming them.

And then you have the natural salary increases and stuff like that are all absorbed in that. Then you have -- the nominal numbers are flat; and, frankly, if you back out a couple of the things that Bruce just mentioned are down.

So we are comfortable on course for New BAC. But remember these numbers are absorbing all the usual costs that we do plus the investments in the business, which we are making strong investments in the areas that we have growth opportunity.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay. No, that's helpful on the severance. I guess I would assume that we would see some less of that going forward given the significant reductions in mortgage this quarter, right?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. Just as we think about the overall size of the balance sheet, you mentioned managing the securities book with OCI risk in mind; and obviously the securities did come down as you mentioned this quarter, while the loans are growing. How do we think about the net impact of those two, I guess looking out next several quarters?

BRUCE THOMPSON: As far as just notional size of the balance sheet?

MATT O'CONNOR: Yes, I am really focused on the loans plus the securities; because obviously liquidity levels can vary quarter to quarter and the trading book can vary quarter to quarter. So just -- I mean, loans are growing nicely, but it is being offset by securities coming down. So I am really just focused on those two components.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think at this point what I would expect is that generally speaking the securities book should remain relatively consistent with where it is. And then if you look at the loan book I would say that you are going to see that the loan book as well as the shrinkage of the debt footprint will be absorbed through deposit growth, as well as a reduction to some extent in our parent Company liquidity as we are carrying an elevated level of parent Company liquidity to address the significant debt maturities in 2014.

The net of those, which I thought you were getting to initially, is that you should continue to see this balance sheet in the $2.125 billion to $2.15 billion type area. But as we go forward we should continue to get it to be more and more efficient.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, I think one of the things that we haven't talked about in a while is we still have significant runoff portfolios that we are replacing. We still have -- which gives us the ability to grow the core business without growing the balance sheet footings.

And I think that is something that will help us in our capital levels, that are already very strong today, going forward. Because effectively we don't need incremental capital to grow the balance sheet, even to have commercial loan growth and other types of growth that you are talking about.

MATT O'CONNOR: Great. So flattish balance sheet, but optimizing the capital usage; and then obviously the NIM probably benefiting from the remix there.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, and you know, by the way everything is on the NIM is still -- the short rate move drives a lot of profit because the deposit franchise is an advantaged funding source, as you well know.

MATT O'CONNOR: Then just separately, circling back on the core expenses of $13.1 billion. I guess it is $13 billion ex- the severance and there is some of the mortgage staff reductions, still some New BAC coming in, and then maybe some investments. Where does that -- on the revenue base that you have right now, where does that $13.1 billion go to, if you just fully loaded all the stuff that you can see?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think the best guidance that we'd give at this point is we have got roughly $600 million a quarter in New BAC to get done over the next five to six quarters.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, that is a net number; so think about it $12.4 billion, $12.5 billion?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes. But then you've got to remember, you've got to add back some of the LAS costs -- the subtract in there. But there is always -- LAS is a servicing business; it is always going to have some costs (inaudible) to.

MATT O'CONNOR: Yes. I guess I was just breaking the -- you've got the litigation, which is a moving target; you've got the LAS which you have been pretty explicit; and then everything else is the $13.1 billion that --

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Sometimes people take that lower number and multiply it times 4, but you've got to remember parts of those other costs will also be in there.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Vivek Juneja, JPMorgan.

VIVEK JUNEJA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: My questions have been answered. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, I just wanted to clarify the New BAC benefits. How much of New BAC have you achieved?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Roughly $1.4 billion a quarter, Mike, relative to $2 billion a quarter that we had previously announced.

MIKE MAYO: Originally I thought you were looking for mid-2015. So when you say $600 million more, that is what you mean, when you say over six or so quarters?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

MIKE MAYO: Just to clarify the last answer, so you expect all that to hit the bottom line? Or some of that will be offset by investments and salespeople and other investments?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think what we said was at the current run rate level you should be expecting that to hit the bottom line.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Switching back to the legal questions, you said you had taken over $40 billion of charges. What is your legal reserve as of the end of the third quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We do not put out a litigation reserve on a standalone basis. The number that we do put out is where we are in rep and warrant, and that was just over $14 billion at the end of the third quarter.

MIKE MAYO: $14 billion rep and warranty?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct. $14.1 billion.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Would that include anything other than the $8.5 billion settlement?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That includes another $5.5 billion for a variety of matters.

MIKE MAYO: So for the Gibbs & Bruns settlement you have an $8.5 billion reserve for that settlement. I think I asked this on some other earnings calls; but if that agreement was not approved by the judge, what is the potential range for that $8.5 billion reserve?

BRUCE THOMPSON: As we have said before we would need to look at that based on the circumstances that come out at the time. I don't think it is a foregone conclusion it goes one way or the other.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Switching gears, in terms of loan growth, what is the loan utilization level? And what are you seeing as far as acceleration or deceleration in loan growth?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I would say that the -- we really haven't -- and one of the things that we have tried to do and we will continue to optimize, particularly the way that the Basel 3 standardized ratio works, that we are focused more and more and for those places where we make credit commitments to have the loans be funded as opposed to unfunded, given the capital treatment that is out there.

So I would say generally as you look at line utilizations that there hasn't been much that has changed at all. Where you are seeing the loan growth has been more funded-type loan growth, in many cases for large, high-quality companies that are making acquisitions. A couple that we would have seen this quarter would have been Verizon Wireless as well as Amgen.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Overall, Mike, the loan utilization rates, they haven't moved around a lot but they are at low levels historically across the board, whether it is our business banking segment, the middle-market segment. And the large corporates don't really use their lines other than as Bruce described, when they are doing something inorganic.

But they are very low, which gives you two things. One, it indicates that they have got lots of cash and have lots of room for investments. But secondly, as the economy picks up, moving back the 1,000 basis points or so we are from more normal levels, for lack of a better term, there is a lot of loan growth within the -- without new customer relationships or any more work.

MIKE MAYO: I understand you are picking and choosing your spots more. So would you say that demand really hasn't changed a whole lot over the past year or two? Or is it picking up in certain areas?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think demand has picked up over the last couple years. I think that if a company had a line of credit in their dynamics, they are using it at a lower level than they did, not necessarily two years ago but during the normal economic times.

And that is the second point. The demand has been picking up across consumer demand and things like that; but it is still not as strong as it would be because it's a 2% growth rate economy out there.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Autonomous Research.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Good morning. I just have a few cleanup questions. With respect to the long-term debt footprint then, have you talked about how much of the $40 billion that is coming due that you would expect to refi? Or are you going to let it all just go?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It won't all just go, but I think it is safe to assume that less than half of it will be refinanced.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, thanks. That's helpful. On the last question you were asked about the litigation reserve, which understandably you don't want to go there. But do you have an estimate of what your reasonable and possible beyond the litigation reserve will be this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I believe, Guy, that at the end of the second quarter, I believe that we had said that the range of possible loss with respect to litigation was in the high $2 billions; and we will obviously need to freshen that up as we get the third quarter Q out. But I wouldn't expect to see anything significant one way or the other.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. The $1.1 billion litigation expense and I guess reserve build this quarter, can you give us a sense of how it breaks down by business unit? Because it didn't seem like it all goes to All Other.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, if you look at by business unit, I referenced that as you float through that you had -- you can see it in the Commercial Real Estate Service area, there was over $300 million of it there. There was roughly $300 million of it between banking and markets. And then the majority of the rest of it was in All Other.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Great. That's helpful. You mentioned that you had accelerated some marketing initiatives from the fourth quarter to the third. I was just wondering if you could give us a little color on specifically what they were, since everybody is looking for growth.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think the only two things is that you have obviously seen a little bit more brand that is out there. And then with CCB there was the acceleration of what we do from a charitable perspective from the fourth to the third. Those were the two items.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. Then the very final question is, you had a meaningful improvement in your Basel 3 capital above and beyond the earnings, and it looks like it is a pretty meaningful reduction in the threshold and other deductions. I was wondering if you could just give us a little more granularity on what was going on there.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well, no, is a great question. Really two things going on. Keep in mind, as we have said, because we have a decent chunk of disallowed DTA from a Basel perspective, that ballpark we will accrete capital on a pretax basis generally speaking as opposed to a post-tax basis for a decent number of quarters going forward. So, when you look at that, think pretax not so much post-tax.

And then the second benefit that you had, which was an earlier question, was the benefit of OCI during the quarter of roughly $1 billion after-tax or $1.5 billion pretax. And that was the combination of pension to the positive; and then to the negative CCB coming out, as well as some of the debt securities gains.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. Okay, that's great. Thanks so much for taking my questions.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Okay. I think that's all the questions that we have, so thanks for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's program. You may disconnect at any time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c173 : Financing Agreements | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131023e9ag001gu
  


 HD
 Q2  2013  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,617 words
   PD
17 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to today's program. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). We'll take questions in turn during the Q&A session. And please note, today's call is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Lee McEntire. Please begin, sir.

   TD
LEE MCENTIRE, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning to those on the phone joining us by webcast. Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson began their comments let me remind you that this presentation, available at BankofAmerica.com, does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. Please see our press release and SEC documents for further information. With that, let me turn it over to our CEO, Brian Moynihan.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Lee. Good morning, everyone. And just to start off, let me remind you where our focus is and has been for some time -- on capital generation, on managing our risk, on continuing to reduce our costs, and on addressing the legacy issues so that we can drive our growth strategy by simply doing more with our customers and clients.

This quarter shows very clearly how the focus is paying off as we earned $4 billion. We built our Company over the last several quarters to maintain stability while continuing to make progress; to withstand the volatility that we saw in part at the end of this quarter while delivering for our customers and shareholders, and that came true. Even as mortgage demand has decreased we still had a 40% increase in resale production over last year and an increase over last quarter. Even as interest rates rose we were able to add to our capital ratios. And keep in mind, with our $1 trillion deposit book, rising rates will continue to increase the value of those over time.

We have leading capabilities in the areas where our customers want us to be. We do more business with them; we're gaining momentum across every customer group we serve. And while we are doing that our balance sheet continues to strengthen, our capital ratios again move higher and, just as importantly, we have begun the process of returning capital to our shareholders.

Our credit quality continues to improve; expenses are down by $1 billion from a year ago. LAS expenses, or legacy asset servicing expenses, excluding our litigation, are down by nearly $800 million on a quarterly basis from the peak only a couple quarters ago and are ahead of our projections.

Our loans and our deposits continue to grow. All the businesses produced solid, stable revenues and in the focused areas where we are growing they grew their revenues. And we are seeing growing activity levels across all our customer and client groups.

So as we look forward we are closely following recent regulatory proposals around capital and leverage, just as you are. Obviously we have already taken significant steps in our Company to build her current strong levels of capital and liquidity and we maintain a comfort level here that Bruce will take you through the numbers later.

The good news in all this is that we are seeing in our business is reflected in an improving economy. The economy continues to improve across all areas, that benefits our Company across multiple fronts. But most importantly, with an improving economy it strengthens and creates opportunity for the people, companies and investors that we serve. And that opportunity will continue to provide opportunity for us to capture as we connect all our capabilities to help those that we serve realize their financial goals. With that let me turn it over to Bruce.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Great. Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. I'm going to start on slide 5 of our presentation materials. Total revenues for the quarter were very solid at $22.9 billion. And we earned $4 billion or $0.32 per diluted share, which is up significantly both from the first quarter of this year as well as the comparable period in 2012.

We made significant progress in all of our primary businesses this quarter and on a linked quarter basis we had growth in four out of the five businesses. Consumer activity levels were solid as mortgage production increased, credit card loan balances stabilized and both deposits and brokerage flows increased from the previous quarter.

Global Wealth and Investment Management reported on another quarter of record revenues as well as earnings. Global banking revenue showed continued strength driven by increased lending in both our commercial as well as our corporate bank and investment banking performance remained strong and close to record levels.

Total noninterest expense of $16 billion represented a significant improvement in expenses both relative to the first quarter of this year as well as the comparable quarter in 2012. And asset quality improved significantly as our provision expense declined to $1.2 billion this quarter.

On slide 6 we give some balance sheet highlights. First, the overall size of the balance sheet came down this quarter to about $2.125 trillion. Importantly, customer activity remained strong with loans led by our commercial loans up $10 billion. Period end deposits were down driven by seasonality associated with tax payments. However, our average deposits did experience modest growth.

I'd also call out on the page the tangible book value per share remained relatively flat from the first quarter of this year. That is significant in the context of our $4 billion of earnings largely offset the negative after-tax impact from accumulated other comprehensive income driven by the increase in rates that we saw during the quarter.

Also helping our tangible book value per share in the quarter was the return of roughly $1 billion of capital through the repurchase of 80 million common shares at a price below tangible book value. And as we look forward we have an additional $4 billion available for common share repurchases.

The combination of the earnings that I discussed on slide 5, as well as the work that we did on our balance sheet, led to a return on tangible common equity of just under 10% for the quarter and a return on average assets of 74 basis points.

On slide 7 we walk through some of the different regulatory capital ratios as far as where we ended up at the end of the second quarter. If we start with Basel I Tier 1 common ratio, we ended the quarter at 10.83%, up 34 basis points from the first quarter of this year and 45 basis points on a pro forma basis at the end of 2012.

Moving to Basel 3, on a fully phased-in basis under the advanced approach and based on final rules, our Tier 1 common ratio was 9.6% showing progress from the first quarter of 2013 despite a 32 basis point negative impact from the change in OCI during the quarter. Risk-weighted assets under Basel 3 were $1.31 trillion or $43 billion lower than the first quarter of 2013 due to an improvement in both the composition as well as the overall credit quality on the books.

If we move to the proposed supplementary US leverage ratio requirement, which will kick in at the beginning of 2018, our preliminary analyses indicate that at the holding company our leverage ratio for the second quarter of 2013 was in the range of 4.9% to 5%, which positions us very well relative to the 5% minimum.

If we look at our primary bank subsidiaries, which we have two, BANA, our primary banking subsidiary, and FIA, our card subsidiary, during the second quarter of 2013 both of those were in excess of the 6% proposed minimum. So net-net from a regulatory capital perspective, we feel like we've made very good progress across all of the different measures that we'll be required to operate within.

On page 8, funding and liquidity, you can see long-term debt during the quarter declined $18 billion as maturities outpaced issuances during the quarter. Our global excess liquidity sources did decline during the quarter; it was expected as a result of our reductions in the long-term debt footprint, our preferred stock redemptions, as well as of the seasonal deposit outflows that I referenced earlier from tax payments.

At the parent company liquidity remains very strong at $95 billion due to capital returns from our subsidiaries during the quarter. Time to required funding increased to 32 months, up from 29 months in the first quarter of 2013 and well above our target of approximately 24 months. And as we've indicated before, over the next four to six quarters we will look to move that time to funding towards the 24 months as we repay the upcoming debt maturities in 2013 and 2014.

On noninterest income, if you look at slide 9, net interest income on an FTE basis was $10.8 billion, down just about 1% from the first quarter of 2013. If you adjust our net interest income for market-related items, it was $10.4 billion which was less than $100 million below our guidance as our trading-related net interest income declined as a result of reduced balance sheet utilization in our global markets business during the last month of the quarter.

On the positive side, we benefited during the quarter from lower long-term debt, higher levels of commercial land balances, as well as one additional day of interest in the second quarter relative to the first. On the flipside, in addition to the negative impact of lower asset balances on the trading books, we also had slightly lower consumer loan balances and yields driven by our runoff portfolios.

As we came into the second quarter of 2013 our interest-rate sensitivity, as we disclosed in the first quarter 10-Q, estimated a $1.6 billion annual benefit to net interest income from a 100 basis point instantaneous long end steepening if rates remained at that level.

During the second quarter the 10-year rate did increase by more than 60 basis points and we realized $300 million of that benefit immediately through the impact on FAS 91. We expect to realize the balance of the benefit, approximately $700 million, over the course of the next 12 months. As a result of those different factors we do expect net interest income, excluding any market-related impacts, to build off of the second quarter of 2013's $10.4 billion adjusted level as we move forward during the balance of 2013 and into 2014.

If you look at the work that we did on expenses on slide 10, total expenses were down significantly on both a linked quarter as well as a year-over-year basis as we continued to deliver on the expense reductions that we have discussed within our Legacy Assets and Servicing area, as well as the ongoing cost savings from our New BAC initiatives that we're implementing in the other businesses that we operate.

Our number of full-time equivalent employees in the quarter ended at just over 257,000, which was down 2% from the first quarter of 2013 and almost 7% from the comparable period a year ago. Total expenses did declined $3.5 billion from the first quarter of 2013 as we benefited from a $1.7 billion decline in litigation; our LAS expenses X litigation were down roughly another $250 million; our retirement eligible costs, which we only incur during the first quarter of each year, were down $900 million, and all other expenses were down approximately $600 million.

As we look at the progress that we make on our LAS, expenses from the fourth quarter of 2012 when they peaked at $3.1 billion, we are now down approximately $800 million from that peak and we did all of that within the last two quarters. As a result we previously had said that our LAS expenses X litigation would be approximately $2.1 billion by the end of 2013, meaning in the fourth quarter of 2013. And with the progress that we've made, we now believe our fourth-quarter LAS expenses will be below $2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013. And keep in mind that as we work through these the realization of these savings can be somewhat lumpy.

In addition to our LAS expenses, the $600 million improvement in all other costs was driven primarily by lower incentive compensation costs during the quarter, as well as our New BAC efforts. We remain on track to achieve $1.5 billion of New BAC quarterly savings by the fourth quarter of 2013.

On slide 11 we give some information on the trends from an asset quality perspective. And as you can see, credit quality once again improved significantly during the quarter. Net charge-offs declined to $2.1 billion, an improvement of 16% on a linked quarter basis and 42% relative to the second quarter of 2012.

Our second-quarter of 2013 net loss rate of 94 basis points is the first time that we have been below 100 basis points since 2006. Given the improving trend in delinquencies and other metrics, we now expect our net charge-offs will come in below $2 billion in the third quarter of 2013.

Provision expense of $1.2 billion this quarter does reflect a reserve reduction of approximately $900 million reflecting improving credit trends. The allowance coverage remains strong and, given the pace of improvement in credit quality, we do anticipate continued reserve releases particularly in our consumer real estate portfolios.

Let's now move to a discussion of the performance within our lines of business on slide 12. Consumer and business banking -- before we go through the results I do want to highlight a technical change that this quarter we did move our direct and indirect auto and other specialty lending into the CBB business from global banking given that it more closely connects with consumer lending activity. This book does include $37 billion of loans and we have adjusted prior periods to have this data be comparable.

Earnings in the business were relatively stable compared to the first quarter of 2013 and up 15% from the prior year driven by both expense improvements as well as lower credit cost. We do continue to do more business with our core customers. Our average deposits were up almost $9 billion from the first quarter of 2013 excluding the transfers that we had from the Wealth Management business. Loans declined a modest 1% as a decline in our credit cards was mitigated by a balance growth in both small business as well as auto lending.

There's been a lot of discussion on use credit card balances. Those balances appear to have stabilized and at the end of the second quarter were at $90.5 billion, up from $90 billion at the end of the first quarter of this year. Our card issuance remained strong in the second quarter and is at its highest level since 2008. US consumer credit card retail spend per average active account was up 9% from the second quarter a year ago. We continue to optimize our delivery network and usage within the mobile channel continues to increase.

And lastly, expense levels reflect both the benefits of the network optimization as well as the investments to build out our specialty sales force.

If we move to consumer real estate services, on slide 13, we address home loans, one of the two businesses within our CRES segment. First mortgage retail originations were $25 billion and were up 6% from the first quarter and 41% compared with retail originations in the year ago period. Our market share in the retail mortgage space improved. We broke through 5% versus below 4% just over a year ago.

We do anticipate some slowdown in mortgage production resulting from recent increases in interest rates and that is seen by the 5% reduction in our mortgage origination pipeline at the end of June relative to what we had seen at the end of March this year.

While production has experienced a nice trajectory over the last year, we, not unlike the industry, have experienced compression on margins that affect revenue. While the margins do remain high relative to historical periods, the compression is most notable when you look at our year-over-year production revenue.

We continued to add mortgage loan officers during the second quarter primarily in the banking centers, as well as other employees in our sales and fulfillment area, in order to deliver a first-class mortgage experience for our customers. These actions did contribute to higher expenses in the quarter.

On slide 14 we move to Legacy Assets and Servicing, which still did report a loss in the quarter, but showed significant improvement from the first quarter which included the MBIA and RMBS litigation settlements as the reduction in expenses more than offset a decline in the revenues. Revenues were negatively impacted by a servicing revenue decline of $175 million as the servicing portfolio declined 17% and we had less favorable MSR hedge performance. That was partially offset by higher sales volume of loans that returned to performing status.

As you look at LAS, several key takeaways from this slide. The first is our level of 60-plus day delinquent loans, which is one of the primary drivers of the elevated cost, dropped below 500,000 units at the end of June, a 27% decline from the results at the end of the first quarter of 2013. Recall our number of 60-plus day delinquent loans peaked at almost 1.4 million units at the end of 2010.

Looking ahead, we now expect our amount of 60-plus day delinquent loans to come down further than we originally expected to below 375,000 units by the end of 2013. As we continue to reduce these loans the number of employees and contractors will come down and you can see that by the decrease of 5,000 people during this quarter.

Expenses ex-litigation once again were down roughly $250 million from the first quarter to $2.3 billion.

Global Wealth and Investment Management on slide 15 had a great quarter with our results once again reflecting records in revenues, earnings as well as pretax margin. Year-over-year revenue increased 10% and net income grew by 38%. Our second-quarter pretax margin of about 28% benefited from strong revenue performance as well as improved credit cost during the quarter.

Long-term AUM flows were solid at nearly $8 billion in the quarter, more than double the flows that we saw in the prior year ago period. Ending loan balances grew $5 billion in the quarter to record levels while ending deposits declined $5 billion due to the seasonality of tax payments.

Global banking, on slide 16, experienced strong loan growth and slightly higher investment banking fees compared to the first quarter of 2013, both of which helped drive $1.3 billion in net income and a 22% return on allocated equity. The Investment Banking strength kept fees near record levels and we retained our second-place ranking in net investment banking fees.

Within the Investment Bank, underwriting fees continued the momentum from near record levels during the first quarter of 2013 and were up 53% from the second quarter of 2012. Equity underwriting fees grew 10% relative to the first quarter of 2013 and up 86% from the comparable year-ago period due to the strong global IPO market as well as our focus on continuing to grow capabilities within this space.

On the balance sheet average loans increased by almost $12 billion from the first quarter driven by growth in both corporate C&I as well as commercial real estate. As you look at that loan growth I think it's important to note the strong diversity in lending to our global customer base as the US represented approximately 40% of the growth with the balance outside of the US.

If we switch to global markets on slide 17, we earned roughly $1 billion during the quarter on revenue of $4.2 billion, which is up significantly from the second quarter of 2012 results, but down from the first quarter of 2013. The business during the second quarter generated a 13% return on allocated equity.

Sales and trading revenue, if we back out DVA, was $3.5 billion, solidly above our 2012 results. FICC sales and trading was down versus the second quarter of 2012 as well as the first quarter of 2013 given the rate volatility and spread widening that we saw during the last month of the quarter. Equity sales and trading had a very strong quarter, actually the best that we've seen since the first quarter of 2011. Results ex-DVA were up 53% from the second quarter of 2012 and 4% over the first quarter of 2013 as we continued to gain market share in cash equities, improved our performance and equity derivatives and had higher client balancing -- balances in our financing area.

If you look at the balance sheet, trading asset levels did decline as we reduced risk during the end of the second quarter. Average VAR at a 99% confidence level was $69 million in the quarter, down from $80 million in the first quarter of last year(sic).

On slide 18 we walk you through the results of our all other segment which includes global principal investment, our non-US consumer card business, our discretionary portfolio associated with interest-rate risk management, insurance as well as our international Wealth Management area.

Gains on the sale of debt securities were $452 million in the second quarter of 2013 compared to $67 million in the first quarter and $354 million in the second quarter of 2012. That coupled with the prior quarter cost for retirement eligible compensation, lower litigation expense, higher equity investment income and lower provision for credit losses due primarily to the improvement in the residential mortgage portfolio drove the significant improvement in earnings in this segment compared to both the first quarter of this year and the prior year ago period.

Before we leave this slide, two things I would note for modeling purposes as it relates to preferred dividends and taxes. The first, preferred dividends -- we expect our preferred dividends to drop from $441 million this quarter to about $280 million in the third quarter and then settle in around $260 million per quarter as we move forward. These declines are the result of the redemption of the $5.5 billion of preferred stock this quarter.

If we move to taxes, the effective tax rate for the quarter was 27%. As we look out during the balance of the year we would expect the rate to be approximately 30% plus or minus any unusual items like the UK tax rate reduction. As we have disclosed previously, this year's expected UK corporate income tax rate is likely to be reduced by 3% and will be enacted in the third quarter of this year.

As a result, for modeling purposes, you should include a charge of approximately $1.1 billion associated with the write-down of our UK deferred tax asset in the third quarter of this year. But keep in mind, given where we are from a DTA disallowance position, this will not impact our Basel 1 or Basel 3 capital ratios.

And before we wrap up and take questions I would like to leave you with a couple of thoughts about the second-quarter performance. We achieved many of the objectives that we laid out for the quarter, revenue was solid, costs came down significantly, credit continued to improve and our capital ratios remain strong and improved despite the change in both OCI as well as the initiation of our share repurchase program during the quarter.

The higher rate environment, to the extent it stays with us allows us to improve our net interest income going forward and we plan to continue to drive forward, execute on our strategy and deliver on the earnings capability of our Company. And with that, operator, we will go ahead and open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: A couple of questions on improving RWA's. You mentioned that credit helped drive the RWA's down a little bit. Could you give a little bit more color on how much of the HPI improvement has already come through the RWA? Is there any more to come from what is happened so far in your 2Q -- in your 3Q and 4Q outlook?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. When we referenced, Betsy, the improving credit quality you can look at it in three different buckets. The first which you already pointed out, clearly HPI under Basel 3, as home prices go up there is benefit to that. And that improvement accounted for roughly a third of the improvement we saw during the quarter.

The other two things that we benefited from was at the end of the quarter we had less risk on the books so that obviously the reduction in risk provided some benefit. And then third, the overall credit quality of the wholesale book that we had seen also improved. So within that credit quality characterization it was those three things. As we look forward any improvement, any further improvement that we have with respect to risk-weighted assets is going to be a function of home prices.

Obviously the prints that we have seen during this quarter continue to be strong. And to the extent that the improvement continues we would expect to benefit from that. The other thing that is noteworthy and you see this is that we do continue to run off a fair bit of legacy positions within the consumer mortgage portfolio and you saw that the home equity lines of credit reduced by about another $3.5 billion during the quarter and that obviously provides some benefit as well.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks. And then a follow-up on your comment regarding the outlook for NII, where you indicated that NII excluding market-related items could build from the $10.4 billion at 2Q 2013. Could you describe how you are thinking about that? I've had a lot of conversations over the last quarter of about what you put in your Q, which is 100 basis point (inaudible) rates, a meaningful increase in EPS that has got to come more from reinvesting the cash flow of the securities portfolio. So could you give us a sense of how you drive higher NII?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. Well, in the queue we put out two different numbers, the first that we put out is the parallel -- the 100 basis points parallel shift which at the end of this quarter I believe we said was either $3.6 billion or $3.7 billion. And then we had the steepening where just long rates went up and we had the $1.6 billion that. Obviously at we look at -- and look at net interest income in the future, we've not seen a parallel shift at this point. We've just seen a steepening. And that's why, in my comments, I referenced the $1.6 billion.

But as we look forward and look at -- and look forward from a net interest income perspective, to the extent that long end rates are higher and we are investing excess liquidity at the Company we will benefit from being able to invest at higher rates.

The other two items that we have that will benefit net interest income going forward is we do continue to take down the debt footprint. And you can see that commercial loan balances are moving up as well. And we would expect the combination of those things to more than offset some of the declines in both balances and yields we have seen on the consumer side.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Bruce, I just would add, if you think about over the last several quarters we have been fighting the run off portfolios and the impact of those going forward continues to mitigate. So if you look at some of the information was -- and the card balances actually growing quarter to quarter, whether -- even the home equities, the size of the run-off portfolio in mortgages is lower. You assume those that had higher yields as a general case, so the stuff coming on replacement now helps replace those yields and is better in securities. So that gives us confidence that we are starting to see the growth that helps drive the core NIM up.

BETSY GRASECK: And would you be looking to shift some of the liquidity pool into securities? Obviously it would be longer duration in a liquidity pool.

BRUCE THOMPSON: As we have always said, the first places we continue to build liquidity that we are looking to place it is within the lines of business to fund loan growth from those customers. And if you look at this quarter and you look at the balance sheet you saw some of that in that our overall securities balances I believe were down about $18 billion, whereas our average overall loans were up.

So clearly the lines of business, to the extent of that we continue to originate well structured well priced loans that return the way that we'd like, that is where the liquidity is going to go first. The excess liquidity is invested and in this environment we continue to be very mindful of the OCI risk and will manage with the mindset of mitigating that risk.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, great. And then just lastly on the GWIM gross -- pretax margin, pretty strong number this quarter. And I know last quarter you called out some one timers. Were there any one timers in that this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes. The only one timer that I think jumps out is if you look at it you can say that we actually had a negative provision of about $15 million for the quarter, a more normalized provision number within that business is probably $25 million to $50 million, but not unlike the balance of our consumer real estate portfolio. The consumer lending with respect to mortgages and that segment benefits from the increasing home prices that we have seen. That is probably the one anomaly that merits mentioning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Betsy, we have been -- John Thiel and David Darnell -- John runs the business, and along with Keith Banks -- U.S. Trust, has done a good job. If you look at the revenue year-over-year, I think it is a 10% increase in expenses went up 3% in the business which, as you know, has high sensitivity to compensation increases. They just have been doing all the hard work and the New BAC work like everybody else. And so as the markets rose they benefited dramatically from it.

BETSY GRASECK: So what is the targeted pretax margin there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Over time as we look at where we are, and I want to highlight over time, we think that can get to a margin of 30%. But at the same time I think of accurately called out we were at 28% this quarter and we did have some benefit from the provision line.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Over time includes a higher interest rate environment?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Remember, they've got a lot of loans, deposits, lending in there too that benefits as rates rise.

BETSY GRASECK: Absolutely. All right, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just within fixed income trading businesses, I mean obviously June proved to be a tough month I think for a lot of folks. And it seemed like the trends were maybe a little bit weaker than we are seeing elsewhere when we factor in some of the charges that you had in the first quarter.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. A couple things on the fixed income business. If we look at the -- and let's look at it year over year because this business probably has the most seasonality with respect to the first quarter. If you look at year-over-year and if you looked within the businesses, within both the rates and currencies area as well as the different credit trading areas which we look at investment grade, high yield as well as our loan sales and trading, the performance year over year was actually pretty good.

Where we had weakness in the second quarter this year was in three areas. The first is that we continue to run off the structured credit trading book and you had a pretty significant decline during the second quarter of 2013 relative to the prior year from the continued run off of that book. From a P&L perspective it is largely run off at this point so we are not going to have to discuss that much going forward.

The other two areas on a relative basis that were weaker, we have a very significant business that has got number one market shares in the municipal finance space. And if you look at the prices and the spread widening, it was very dramatic during the month of June in the muni space, that negatively affected us. And then in the mortgage space, obviously the market widened out significantly there and we had some lumpy items in the second quarter of 2012 as well.

So I think as you look at the quarter and you look at the fixed income business, once again we run it as a holistic business between new issue and sales and trading. The new issue business had a great quarter. Those areas where the markets were good, rates and currencies, fixed income -- or fixed -- excuse me, credit trading across the board actually performed pretty well in the three areas that I mentioned, one because it is running off; and two, given the market dynamics didn't perform as well as we would have expected.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, that is very helpful color. So just as we think about FICC going forward, maybe a little bit of a lower run rate as you are running down the -- or ran down the structured trading, but also hopefully less volatility given that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think that's fair. Just to give you a sense, Matt, the structured credit trading book this quarter was less than $100 million. So as you look at the go-forward basis, there is just not much left.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then separately -- I'm sorry.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Matt, just on that -- just as you look at slide 17, what Tom Montag and team have been able to do is to continue to take advantage of opportunities. The equities business last year, we were still in a work in progress, but they have rebuilt that business; it's doing well. The fixed income, Bruce just ran you through that, but look at the ability to drive the profit by getting the expenses lined up well. So, on the year-over-year basis, the profit increased by $450 million, $460 million because we are able to maintain the expense discipline at the same time as the revenue went up.

And so I think the key there is that we're trying to manage that business in the context of who we are as entire company in the markets business, and Tom and his team continue to drive where the opportunities are. And FICC aside I think had a very good quarter, but when you step back and look at it holistically, their ability quarter after quarter to drive the profit growth or a good return on capital even in more volatile spaces where we got -- obviously hit a little bit in FICC in the latter part of the quarter is pretty solid.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. That is helpful color. I mean we do see good core trends in the iBanking fees and of course the equities business, as you mentioned. And then just separately, if we look at loan was provision expense going forward; you give us some components of charge-offs and then, just kind of big picture, some more reserve release. But any thoughts on just the specific level of provision expense going forward? I think you had been targeting $1.8 billion to $2.2 billion, which obviously you broke through that now for a couple quarters.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think it is a good question. What I would point to is that credit quality across the board, and particularly as you look at early stage delinquencies, as well as what we are seeing as we move some of the consumer real estate out, is quite strong. As we have said, we think the charge-off number will come below $2 billion in the third quarter.

And as you look at the reserve release, the reserve release this quarter, roughly [$650 million] of it was from core reserves and roughly [$250 million] of it was from PCI. We can't project PCI, but I think if you look at the core $650 million and take the charge-off guidance that we have given, absent any change in home prices, you get a sense as to where we are trending.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, that's helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Bruce, I was wondering if you had any sense of where we might think of legal expense going forward. It came down a lot this quarter; you got some things behind you. How should we think of that number going forward?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think, John, as we look at legal expense, it is always a little bit difficult to predict. But the just under $500 million that we saw this quarter is clearly at an elevated level from what we would expect long term. At the same time, within the $500 million there was nothing lumpy from the quarter. So it's -- I always hesitate to say too much on that because it is lumpy. But the $500 million number as it relates to a base level, at least what we can tell in the near term, is probably not a bad level to keep.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And putting expenses altogether, the $16 billion is probably a pretty good jumping off point for us to think going forward starting in the third quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then on the quarterly LAS trend you mentioned getting below $2 billion by the end of this year. Any thoughts on what your destination for that might be by the end of 2014? Ultimately you want to get that number down to $500 million, right?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes. I would -- as we make progress we previously said we would get $1 billion at this year and $1 billion in 2014. We will be at a lower level at the end of 2013, as we said today. And I don't think it is unreasonable to think we will get another $1 billion out in 2014 relative to that lower level.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Just separately, you mentioned the DTA. I assume the DTA consumption is still helping drive up your capital ratios. Could you remind us how much DTA you have right now and how much is disallowed?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Right now on a disallowed basis under Basel 1.5 it is in the ZIP Code of $15 billion to $16 billion. I think the important thing to keep in mind is during the quarter we didn't get the benefit that you would think from DTA because the impact of OCI offset that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. But normally you would probably be building at close to the pretax rate you said before?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Absolutely.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Last thing for me. On the NII, can you just review that again? The benefit you have talked about, that is a benefit from the 10 year moving up. And did you say that you received $300 million of that benefit that is already in the $10.4 billion that we see this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, the $300 million was in the $10.8 billion. The $10.4 billion backs out the $300 million.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So the benefit -- the $700 million, that is to come over the next 12 months?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, the $700 million would be the benefit, all other things being equal, off of that $10.4 billion number. And that is just the benefit from the move in rates, not anything else to do with the balance sheet.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. But you are thinking of that as helping the core number grow, right, not the --?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct. The $700 million that is left is all core. The $300 million was in the adjusted -- or in the pre-adjustment number that we reported of $10.8 billion this quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, right, that $300 million wasn't core, but the next one to come is. Okay, got it.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you. Bruce, so do you have -- and you have additional benefits beyond that if short rates rise, was that the point you were making earlier?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct and that is the important point. As you look at -- and I'm just going to speak to what we had in the first-quarter Q -- the difference between a 100 basis point parallel shaft and a 100 basis point on the long end is an incremental $2.1 billion which is to your short end question.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: John, the power of the deposit franchise and the short rate rise because the mix is so transactional and core oriented is just, that is where there is a lot of lift left. It's not showing up yet obviously because of the steepness of the curve.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: A quick question I just want to confirm. I believe you guys said in the past that there is -- when we look at the revenue decline from the sales and the MSR and the LAS business versus the corresponding reduction in expenses we should kind of count on a lag on that front, is that right?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, there is always a lag of three to six months from when the work goes away to when the actual employees that are working on that, as well as the expenses associated with it, leave the income statement.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, great. Thanks for confirming that. And in your experience generally how sensitive -- what is the MSR market -- the MSR purchase market like at this point? Are you guys still out there shopping MSRs and how sensitive are those buyers to home prices?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. I want to make sure we clear up one question that we get a lot on this. We worked hard to enter into the MSR sale that we entered into at the end of 2012. A lot of the goal associated with that was to be able to reduce the work so we could take the expenses out of our Legacy Assets and Servicing area.

We entered into a number of transactions in the fourth quarter of 2012 and those will close throughout 2013. The most significant sales have already closed and there will be some smaller sales that close during the balance of this year.

Outside of the closing of those sales any activity that you see from an MSR perspective will only be because it makes so much sense and it results in getting out loans that are very difficult to work out. But going forward you should not expect to see any incremental MSR sales. And all the guidance we've given you with respect to expense as well as 60-plus day delinquencies is solely based on us doing the work that we control.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, that's clear. Thank you. And then on your AFS portfolio, I think you guys have indicated in the past it was a roughly two year duration. Given your allocation to RMBS in that portfolio, did we see an extension of that duration? Can you kind of help us -- give an idea about what the impact might have been during the quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, as you look at that, one of the conferences that we spoke at, the comment that we had made at that point was that as you look at the impact of OCI relative to net interest income that it took between two and a half to three years to be able to earn back the OCI that is lost through net interest income. And you are absolutely right that durations do widen in mortgage-backed securities. So as we leave 2012 it is more in the context of three years to earn it back as opposed to the two and a half to three years that we had spoken about previously.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Terrific. Thanks for that. And then last one from me -- the results in GWIM have definitely been impressive. Can you guys speak to any change we've seen in high net worth risk appetite or behavior over the last roughly year or so and how sustainable you view that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think a year or so, I mean -- I think if you went back a little shorter than that in the first quarter as the markets moved people started putting money back in the market on a retail level -- on a high net worth retail level. And I think that trend has continued. But there is still a lot of cash out there. So if you look at some of the deposit dynamics you can see that repositioning.

And so, we feel people are constructive. I'm not -- we've got our research experts that can give you their view of the S&P levels and things like that. But from a general trend from both our private banking clients and the willingness to borrow money, put it to work for Private Banking and Wealth Management clients and their investment patterns we've seen they are willing to take risk go up.

And so, you've seen growth in our lending across the board and that has been -- that indicates that people are willing to take risk. I think if you look back a year ago people were not using lines and weren't asking for a lot of lines. And that has changed in the last couple quarters.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Cool. That's helpful, thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Switching to the mortgage banking side, you've got 5% market share which you have really built back -- you built back your market share over the last year, year and a half. But most of them are refi's. With the refi -- with rates going up where do you think that market share goes to or do you think you've done a pretty good job building up your purchase -- your purchase salesforce to maintain that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Bruce, why don't you hit on some of that and then I will give you some broader color.

BRUCE THOMPSON: So I think as you step back this quarter our purchase percentage of our overall total went up to 17% from what I believe was right around 7% during the first quarter. So we have started to see the purchase share go up. As we look forward we have roughly 12% deposit market share throughout the country. And if we are doing this business as well as we believe that we can we clearly would expect over time that that mortgage market share can grow from the 4% that we started at a year ago to the 5% that we are at today up to a high single-digit market share.

And as we look at where we are today relative to going forward and as we look at what some of our peers have said, the 5% decline in pipeline end of second quarter this year -- or end of second quarter currently versus the first quarter is reflective of the fact that we are picking up share because the pipelines aren't down as much as some others.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Paul, the other thing is about 70% odd -- 72% to 74% I think it is of the activity that we do in mortgage is really off the customer base. And so, we now have more than half the mortgage loan officers that we have working through the branch -- the retail stores, on teams of people along with the financial advisors, what we call FSA's, in a branch and personal bankers and small business bankers.

And so, that business system is really taking hold and the amount they are producing continues to grow. And that is where we have placed a lot of the growth year over year. I think we are up 700 or 800 or so mortgage loan officers and mostly in that platform. That platform performs well from both realtor referral basis plus direct to consumer basis. And so, we think that serves us well as the market ebbs and flows between refi purchases.

And then when you look at our purchase statistics you also have to remember that we still have, probably more than other of our peers, a lot of the government-related refinancing business going through, which we identified for you. So if you sort of back that out you see a more represented picture of how we are doing in the purchase market. But we've got to make that transition happen and the team will work hard at it.

PAUL MILLER: And then can you add some color -- I mean we have been first -- rates have really moved up, gain on sale margins you know are coming down. But can you give some color where you are seeing gain on sale margin so far into the quarter or is it too early to tell?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: For this quarter -- for the third quarter?

PAUL MILLER: Yes.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think it's too early to tell because we have only had a couple of week's activity obviously. But they came down in the quarter. Bruce, why don't you --?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, they were down roughly, Paul, 50 basis points during the second quarter relative to the first. And as Brian indicated, it is too early to tell this quarter.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Generally in this business, remember, we are -- this business is a business which ebbs and flows and you know it as well as anybody. Our goal in this business is to serve our customers well. And I think we have rebuilt the platform to do that and that is why we are having success. And so, as the margins have come in they're still strong, we still make money in the business, but we've got to monitor as we go forward. It doesn't mean that -- we will have to take expenses down like everybody else will if the volume is not there.

PAUL MILLER: And did you disclose what your HARP percentage is? If you did I missed it.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The -- we can get you on that -- we will get you that. I don't know it off the top of my head. Do you happen to know, Bruce?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's in the 40%s.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, the 40% I thought.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Hey, guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Autonomous Research.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Thanks for the disclosure on the supplemental leverage ratio. I was wondering if you had any assessment of what the impact might be of the BIS proposal for add-ons on disallowed repo and CDS protection sold and disallowed derivatives collateral.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think at this point, Guy, we have worked hard, given that these rules came out at the end of last week, to be able to get to both the parent as well as to be very specific about our two primary banking subsidiaries. From best that we can tell in the different releases that is what the US regulatory framework has focused on. There are obviously some different views that were put out in BIS, but we don't have a number for you on that.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, that's fair. I know that is early days. How will you -- and stipulating to the fact that clearly based on what you have told us and some stuff that we have done you are pretty much where you would need to be on the supplemental leverage ratio per the US take. How would you think about managing your off balance sheet lending commitments to the extent that they do drive the denominator there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's one of the questions and as we have different discussions that you raise, that as policy gets set on this there is a concern of do some of the policies out there possibly have an impact on the availability of undrawn credit. And so, directly to your point, to the extent that over time you are required to hold capital in this case in the form of a leverage ratio for committed undrawn facilities, by definition the cost of those facilities to have truly committed facilities will need to migrate up over time so there is a fair return that is generated on the capital that needs to get help for those.

To the extent that they are not committed, obviously the percentage that you need to hold is much less. But across the industry to the extent that you need to hold capital for those in greater amounts, the cost will need to change over time. Keep in mind, that doesn't kick in until 2018.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Yes, fair enough. And to the numbers you gave, you obviously don't have a lot of pressure to do anything there. But you are right, it would seem like pricing of those facilities probably has to get rationalized. On the shares, you did an initiate the share repurchase, you talked about that. But there was still a fairly meaningful amount of share creep in the quarter. Was that just employee grants? Although I would've expected to see those more in the first quarter. And should we expect that we are at this point kind of at a high for the year in terms of the share count; should it head back down to where it was say in the first quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Guy, I would ask you to take a look -- and if you flip back to the balance sheet data that we present on page 6, you can see that the actual number of outstanding shares for the quarter came down by 80 million which is the 80 million shares that we told you we repurchased. The only variation in the share count on a fully diluted basis is the treatment of the 700 million shares that were associated with the Berkshire investment. And depending on the price of the stock, as well as where the preferred shares are, that fully diluted share count can bounce around a little bit. But on a pure shares outstanding we came down by the 80 million that we show on slide 6.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Fair enough. Okay, I just have one more question -- thanks for the clarity on that. When do you expect at this point to have completed the rationalization of the branch system?

BRUCE THOMPSON: As you go back through -- and the guidance and what we have spoken about is that we wrapped up and did the New BAC for the consumer businesses at the beginning of 2011 and we had a plan to work through and to rationalize that branch network down to in the ZIP Code of 5,000 branches by the end of 2014. And beyond 2014 at this point we will continue to evaluate and optimize the branch network going forward.

What we have been very pleased with as we look at that optimization of the network is two things. The first as we have rationalized the network in the markets that we operate, we have been very pleased with our retention of both consumer deposits as well as overall relationships in that as we have rationalized that network our customers have continued to do business with us and just use a different branch.

And the second thing that I would mention is that you have seen some announcements that in some of the more rural markets we've actually been able to sell those branches and generate decent premiums as we have sold those. But in the near-term we have got the plans through 5,000 and we will continue to look to optimize based on the environment that we are operating in.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: But it almost sounds like, based on the success that you've had that you outlined, that might encourage you to take it a little bit further or would that be reading too much into it?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: No, I think -- if you look at page 12 you can sort of -- you have to sort of look at all of the dynamics in there. So deposits up $50 billion from last year's second quarter. The branch countdown about 270, and the rate paid on deposits from 19 basis points down to 12 basis points. But importantly look at the mobile banking customer and look at the -- and the uses behind that.

So this is a matter of continuing to optimize, as you said, Guy, the distribution system. But it is going to be led by the customer behavior change. In other words we are seeing, because of our customer base and because of our capabilities, like our online banking system was rated best in the business ninth year in a row and things like that. The mobile banking system gets great feedback from our customers seeing constant improvement. That our ability to do this is still in front of us because we got to watch the customer behavior and how we change.

There will be some point where the core store level will probably settle in, but you are seeing it work through that if you sit there and say -- have 10% more deposits and 5% less branches and 30% more mobile customers, that is a pretty good dynamic towards the expense basis of the platform. And so, we will continue to optimize it, but it is going to be led by our customers.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Great. Thanks so much for that.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer & Company.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I am looking at the supplement on page 23 where you go through the consumer real estate services. And looking down the column that says home lending and year to date you have nearly $2 billion of revenues and only $94 million drops to the bottom line. And I am wondering is that lack of profitability some vagary of segment accounting or is it that the business is just -- or is the business just kind of so marginally profitable? And if so then why be in it?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, the big thing there, Chris, is remember in the home loan space that the only activity that is reflected within that is the front end or the origination side as well as a small amount of the home equity book that is held there. Keep in mind, relative to our peers the service -- all of the servicing asset and the profitability that comes out of the servicing asset for what I would characterize as the quote, good or current servicing, is all based within the legacy assets and servicing segment. So it's a little bit of apples to oranges relative to our peers as to how we report it.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Wait, so I'm sorry, the servicing revenues are in the LAS?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: And this is just origination?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Correct.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And is that kind of historically the norm that origination is sort of a loss leader almost?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I wouldn't say loss leader. You've got to do it to make some money, but the value tends to be extracted through the servicing over time. But I think the reality is we have been building this up and investing in it. And as we sort of reach a level of where the investment is paying us back we still have a lot of efficiency to get in this business to in the front end.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And then overall in terms of liquidity, I mean it looked like your non-loan earning assets were down by almost $40 billion this quarter. How much further do you suppose you can run those down as you reduce your debt footprint?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well, the liquidity, I think -- let me go back and you have to be careful with -- are you referring to on the liquidity side? Keep in mind, a big chunk, $18 billion of what you saw was a result of what we saw in running down the debt footprint. And, as we said, we've got $13 billion of maturities left in the balance of 2013 and just under $40 billion during 2014. So we will continue to be a net reducer of our debt balances and we would expect that to continue to benefit the net interest income line.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Could you talk a little bit about whether you either have -- it doesn't look like it, but whether you have or are planning to kind of retain mortgage loans in the second half of the year? And I have got a follow-up question, too.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I'm sorry, I'm not sure I understand your first question.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Well, I mean, when you think about -- you said in terms of the investment portfolio you would kind of be cognizant of the AOCI impact. You could achieve a similar objective without that by retaining residential mortgages.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure, okay. So, we would expect and, if you look at during the quarter and you look at the composition, keep in mind, Moshe, that you do have loans repaid. But during the quarter, as it relates to the origination activity that we had with our core clients that there were about $13 billion of residential mortgage loans that were originated through the core platform, roughly a third of which were through our Wealth Management area and the balance through our CBB segment. So there is an origination of activity.

And as I said, the investment portfolio is there to invest the residual of what is used. There will be some incremental investments during the year, but I don't think in the aggregate you should expect to see the overall level of securities balances change dramatically between now and the end of the year.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it. And maybe -- given that you have been kind of ahead of or meeting at least or regulatory capital levels kind of faster than some of your large peers. What are the areas that you think could benefit from incremental kind of capital investment or where they might be divesting? Are there any opportunities there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: What we are focused on, and you have seen two different levels of activities amongst our peers. You have seen some looking to deploy and to invest in those areas where there are things that are being sold. What you are going to see us -- and I think you see some of it as you look at our commercial loan activities. We are very much focused given the capital and liquidity that we have built and using that capital and liquidity within our core customer segments.

And so, when you look at that liquidity if you look at our Wealth Management business you will see that the loan balances were up $5 billion Q1 to Q2 because of what we are doing from a securities lending perspective and a mortgage lending perspective, you look at the commercial loan balances. And so, they were up $10 billion, that is not from buying loans or doing anything else.

I do think though to your point some of that comes from being able to lend where other people are pulling back. So you are not going to see anything inorganic that we are doing. What you will see and what you should expect of us is to continue to driving those growth in those customer areas where because of the dynamics that you have mentioned other people may be doing less.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So if you link this question to the last question about sort of the efficiency of the mortgage business, year over year we deployed about 5,000 people, about a 25% increase, to make sure we can close mortgages on time and meet the demands of the customers. So at the same time the headcount of the overall Company is down significantly, we've had that kind of investment go on. We have more commercial bankers today than we had a year ago, we have more small business bankers, financial service advisor branches, so we continue to make the investment.

It's not really about capital I think because we still have so many loan portfolios that are running off that if we replace them it would be good core growth to replace them. It is more about expense dollars and redeploying and that is where we make the judgments right now. And so, the business of returning our cost of capital on allocated capital which is regulatory minimums or above, but it is really the question of where we put the expense dollars and that is where we are focused on sort of the core business that we have the best opportunity.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: And so, maybe just to follow up on that, Brian, I mean do you have a number in mind as to how much you would look to kind of reinvest of the expense savings that you are generating?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's a net number, so we don't give you a number that doesn't take account. But for this year, just to give you an example, we will spend $1.1 billion in connection with the New BAC ideas, which are expense revenue and improving our Company basis that is on top of the $2.5 billion we spend otherwise and systems development work. That is pure systems development initiatives to help drive this Company.

So there is investment going in, but all of the numbers we give you are net of all the investments we are making. So we just -- we are giving you a net number, but we are investing significantly at the same time. And that was what Bruce and the team -- management team set out a few years ago was we had to make sure we progressed the core franchise at the same time we brought the expense base and headcount down.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Two questions for you. You have made gains in market share and mortgage and you said that you have stabilized the credit card. Are you going to be able to gain share in credit card and how do you look to do that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we are in a position, Nancy, for the first time in a long while to -- we've been saying stabilizing credit card for a couple of quarters because we have seen it sort of settle in. We divested some portfolios, as you know. We sized out of some of the business that we didn't find attractive. In this quarter we saw it increase for the first time I think in almost five years. And so, the team produced about 975,000 cards through the -- new cards this quarter up from 950,000-ish last quarter. That is a multitier high in production, I think it goes back to 2008. So, we should see this go on.

Now, you have activity levels you've got to be careful of in the summer and things like that. But overall the baseline is set now. That restructured portfolio which we have shown you guys I think started $15 billion to $20 billion several years ago and is now down to a few billion. To set the underlying dynamics are there that we should be able to grow the business and hold our share. And if you look over the last couple quarters we are basically flattish share wise in card balances, a little bit down but in line with the peers. And so, we feel good that we finally have reached this point after five years of hard work of restructuring that business.

NANCY BUSH: So though do you feel that -- I mean is it a business where you want to gain share? Or if you could just sort of give your overall philosophy on the credit card business right now.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We will continue to drive share among our customers. We have low penetration in certain segments and low usage of our cards in other segments. And so, we are driving through the three or four core products, the Cash 123 product for people that feel that's what they want in a card through the travel awards and other awards products. And we are seeing the cards come in through those core products and we are driving. And, yes, we want to grow share in the context of our customers in the select affinity teams that we work with across the country.

NANCY BUSH: The second question I have is somewhat imprecise and I apologize in advance. But I think what everybody is waiting for with your stock and with the earnings outlook is for this massive deposit gathering network to get profitable. And we understand that that is a function of short rates going up. Is there an ideal -- can you kind of walk us through this? Is there an ideal yield curve? Is there an absolute level of short rates? I mean whatever -- what do we have to see to begin to see the branches get massively profitable?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well, the first thing to your point, if we look at and if you go to the supplement that during the second quarter the deposit segment within CBB did make $500 million during the quarter.

As we look forward though, more directly to your point, to the extent that the overall yield curve shifts up -- and this is once again in our first-quarter Q -- that the benefit from a net interest income perspective on a 100 basis point parallel shift as of the end of the first quarter was over $3.5 billion, the lion's share of which is going to flow through the consumer segment.

So, as it relates to where we are now it is profitable, we made almost $500 million, we continue to optimize and to reduce the expenses to make it more profitable. And you are correct, once rates go up it will become much more so.

NANCY BUSH: If I could just finally ask a corollary to that question. Because of all the issues that you have had in the past few years with closing branches, changing the branch model, several different sort of programs to change the retail footprint of the Company, is there going to be a need as rates go up to give more of that benefit to your customers? In other words, are you going to have to act differently in deposit pricing this time around than you have in previous rate cycles?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think -- Nancy, I think about a lot of the adjustments we made on the fee side for the general consumer customer have already been made. And I think they had -- the customers have benefited dramatically from our position and how we overdrafts and other types of fees. So I think that that will be -- that is the -- following off of your point, that payback to the customers. As deposit -- as rates rise we will meet the market and grow with the market as we have been doing.

But interestingly enough, remember the constitution of our deposits across the last three years, we have run off a lot of CDs and other things which are not advantage products and it has really become more and more core every single quarter. And that will play to our benefit because transactional deposits -- a checking account is non-interest at this point. So as rates rise there is no extra cost.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: I have three real small questions and then one bigger question. What tax rate should we assume to be normal?

BRUCE THOMPSON: At this point -- as we have said, 30% is a reasonable effective tax rate for the last two quarters of the year realizing that you need to add about $1.1 billion to that for the UK tax. And as we go into 2014 and 2015 that 30% migrates into more of a 32% to 33% effective tax rate based on what we think we will be earning as we go into 2014 and 2015.

MIKE MAYO: All right. And then secondly, the GWIM margin of 28%, I'm just trying to compare that to the old Merrill Lynch Wealth Management margin and you have the Asset Management and US Trust in there. Can you just give us some estimate where that 28% margin would be? Would it be 26% or 25% or --?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Where would it be? I'm not sure, Mike, what --?

MIKE MAYO: Excluding US Trust and excluding asset management. In other words, just the pure brokerage business, what kind of margin did that have? I'm just -- I'm trying to see if this is the highest brokerage margin ever perhaps if you can go back to the old Merrill Lynch?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We don't disclose the difference between -- I think what you are asking is, is the margin in US Trust materially different than it is in the traditional Merrill Lynch Wealth Management model. And you should not assume that the margin improvement and the 28% is driven by a mix, virtually all of that margin is driven by overall what we are seeing within which you characterized as the traditional wealth management business of Merrill Lynch.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, thank you. And then, as far as net interest income, you said you had a $300 million benefit this quarter from the increase in the 10 year. So am I just drink the math right? You had $10.5 billion of net interest income, so it added 3% just this last quarter or really in the last month? It just seems like a lot. I mean that is a nice benefit.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well, keep in mind, Mike, and if you flip to slide 9 we show both the reported as well as the actual number. And the reason why that increase in interest rates led to the improvement in NII is because you need to adjust the way you look at premium securities went rates go up to reflect the slowdown in the rate at which you would expect to be paid back. So that is more of a life of loan type adjustment and that is why it is $300 million, it's the reason why we show you the number both ways.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And then lastly, the legal expense came we down, you expect to stay around $500 million. But I'm still focused on the $8.5 billion settlement. And I go down to the courthouse in lower Manhattan and what I think I hear, and again correct my thinking, what I think I hear some lawyers say that Bank of New York rubberstamped the $8.5 billion agreement therefore throw the $8.5 billion deal out. What I think I hear the Kathy Patrick side say is accept the $8.5 billion deal is the best economic alternative out there.

So my question is, you have $8.5 billion of reserves, the $8.5 billion settlement, your disclosures say if the judge does not approve the deal your reserves would go higher. So my question is, how much higher would your reserves go if the judge does not approve the deal and what part of my logic would you like to perhaps correct?

BRUCE THOMPSON: The first is that we are not going to comment on the ins and the outs on the $8.5 billion because, as you know, technically we are not a part of that. The second thing as it relates to that that I would say is, and I think if you go back and look at one of the comments that was made, we accrued the $8.5 billion assuming that all 424 trusts were at the point where they got to the 25% two where there was a negotiation.

So at this point to comment whether or not we think the reserves would be higher or they could be lower is really not appropriate because right now there is an $8.5 billion settlement that is going through the process. We've accrued based on what 22 of the largest investors said was a fair deal, and as you know, when we set up the reserves we applied that same methodology to a variety of our other exposures. And to speculate or to comment before then given where we are in this, I just don't think is appropriate, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: Sure. I think last quarter you thought it would all be wrapped up by now. Any sense of when this might be wrapped up, when you might have this behind you?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I'm not sure that we ever said that we thought it would be wrapped up in the second quarter. What we do know is what you know now given how you have followed the case that I believe that there is a court schedule set up through 26 July, it's not clear whether or not it will be wrapped up by the 26 or will go beyond that. We will just have to see how the process unfolds.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Thank you. And I believe at this point that we are through all the questions. So thank you very much for joining us this morning and we will look forward to talking to you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's program, have a great day. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | csble : Small Business Lending | ntra : Transcripts | c173 : Financing Agreements | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | csmlbs : Small Business/Entrepreneurs | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130724e97h001md
  


 HD
 Q1  2013  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,980 words
   PD
17 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to today's program. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). Please note today's call is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Bruce Thompson and Brian Moynihan begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. And please see our press release and SEC documents for more reference and with that, let me turn it over to Bruce.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Great. Thanks, Kevin and good morning, everyone. I am going to start on slide 4 as we work through the presentation. We earned $0.20 per fully diluted share during the first quarter, or $2.6 billion, up significantly from both the first and fourth quarters of last year. The one item we want to highlight upfront, since it only happens once a year, is approximately $900 million of expense related to retirement-eligible stock-based compensation awards that we have had in the first quarter for the past several years.

We believe first-quarter results demonstrate significant progress towards the goals we have discussed over the past several quarters. Global Markets client activity drove improved sales and trading results versus the fourth quarter of 2012 while investment banking performance remained strong.

Global Wealth & Investment Management reported record earnings post the Merrill Lynch merger. Expenses in most of our businesses continue to decline, although they are partially offset by higher revenue-related incentive compensation and the impact of expense related to annual retirement-eligible stock-based compensation awards.

Capital and liquidity both continue to strengthen and are at record levels by most metrics. The interest rate environment continues to be challenging, but moderate loan growth and reduced average long-term debt helped stabilize net interest income versus the fourth quarter.

Credit quality improved in almost all products and both consumer and commercial loss rates were the lowest in several years. And we continue to make strides in resolving legacy issues as we just recently reached an agreement to settle three class-action lawsuits involving Countrywide-issued RMBS.

On slide 5, if we look at the balance sheet, you can see the total balance sheet was down from both the fourth quarter of last year, as well as the year-ago period, although total loans are up slightly. If we look at commercial loans and leases, they are up 3% relative to the fourth quarter of 2012 and up 17% compared to the year-ago period.

If we move down to deposits, deposits were down slightly from the fourth quarter of '12 to the first quarter of '13, although up approximately $54 billion, or 5%, from the first quarter of 2012. Tangible common equity ratio was up 20 basis points from the fourth quarter to 6.94% and tangible book value was up about $0.10 to $13.46 at the end of the first quarter.

As you know, we started reporting under Basel I incorporating the Market Risk Final Rule this quarter. The change added approximately $87 billion to risk-weighted assets. As you can see on slide 6, at the end of March, our Tier 1 common capital ratio under Basel I, incorporating this change was approximately 10.6%, up from what we would have reported had we incorporated the change at the end of last year.

Under Basel III, on a fully phased-in basis, Tier 1 common capital was estimated to be $131 billion, or 9.4%, versus the fourth-quarter estimated calculation of $129 billion and 9.25% respectively.

I do want to bring to your attention that effective January 1 of this year on a prospective basis, we adjusted the amount of capital being allocated to the business segments. The adjustment reflects an enhancement to prior-year methodology and now considers the effect of regulatory capital requirements in addition to our internal risk-based economic capital models. On slide 22 in the appendix, we summarize the adjusted allocations for you.

If we turn to slide 7, our global excess liquidity sources remain very strong at $372 billion. Ending long-term debt did increase $4.1 billion from the fourth quarter of '12 as we funded the January payment for the Fannie Mae settlement and opportunistically accelerated our 2013 issuance plans.

While we issued $11.5 billion of vanilla parent company debt during the quarter, we still expect our long-term debt to decline over the remainder of 2013, as well as during 2014. Our parent company liquidity remains strong at $100 billion and time to required funding was 30 months. We would expect to continue to remain over two years of coverage.

If you turn to slide 8, net interest income, our net interest income increased from $10.6 billion, or a net interest yield of 2.35% in the fourth quarter, to $10.9 billion or 2.43% in the first quarter of 2013. If we adjust these numbers for FAS 91 in hedge ineffectiveness, on the upper right-hand chart, you can see that net interest income was effectively flat at $10.6 billion, or 2.37% during the first quarter of 2013.

As we look at these results, we benefited obviously from the market-related premium amortization expense. In addition, we also benefited from higher commercial loan balances, as well as the reduction in the average long-term debt, as well as the deposit rates paid. Those benefits were partially offset by lower consumer loan balances and yields, as well as two fewer days during the period.

Let's move to slide 9 and look at expenses. Total expenses were down from both the first quarter a year ago and the fourth quarter as we delivered on expense reductions in LAS, as well as ongoing cost savings in our other businesses from New BAC. LAS expenses, excluding litigation in the IFR acceleration agreement, were down approximately $500 million from the fourth quarter to $2.6 billion during the first quarter. This decrease marks the first quarter where the correlation between expenses and lower delinquent loan levels is visible. Delinquent loan levels started to drop during the middle of last year, but as we have previously said, there is a lag of one to two quarters before you see the associated expenses decrease. LAS headcount for March was down approximately 3000 from December while headcount, excluding LAS, was down approximately 1000.

As we have said previously, we believe that LAS expenses ex-litigation will be at $2.1 billion or lower in the fourth quarter of this year and we feel like the progress that we made during the first quarter in getting to that goal was quite strong. Excluding LAS expenses, litigation and annual retirement-eligible cost, expenses in the quarter in the red box on the slide were $13.8 billion, an increase of $558 million from the fourth quarter of '12 and down $920 million, or 6%, from the first quarter a year ago.

The increase from the fourth quarter was due to higher revenue-related incentive compensation, approximately $800 million, which more than offset the impact of cost savings. We continue to believe that we will achieve 75% of Project New BAC cost saves, or $1.5 billion per quarter by the fourth quarter of this year.

The effective tax rate for the quarter was 28% with nothing noteworthy to point out. We would expect a slightly higher effective tax rate for the rest of the year, plus or minus any unusual items like another UK tax rate reduction. This year's expected UK rate reduction of 3%, up from the previous assumption of 2%, should be enacted in the third quarter and will result in a charge of approximately $1.2 billion to write down our UK DTA in that quarter.

If we turn to slide 10, you can see that credit quality continues to improve. Net charge-offs declined 19% to $2.5 billion during the first quarter, which is the lowest level in several years. The consumer loss rate dropped 34 basis points to 1.7%, the lowest since the beginning of 2008 while the commercial loss rate declined 5 basis points to 25 basis points, the lowest since 2006.

Provision expense of $1.7 billion includes a reserve reduction of approximately $800 million, reflecting the improved trends. NPLs and reservable criticized balances also continue to decrease. In addition, 28%, or $6.4 billion, of our NPAs are current consumer loans that were modified and are now current after successful trial periods or our loans classified as NPAs due to regulatory guidance that was issued in the second half of 2012. Our allowance coverage to annualized charge-offs increased from 1.96 times in the fourth quarter of 2012 to 2.2 times in the first quarter of 2013.

If we turn to slide 11, we highlight the results of Consumer & Business Banking. Starting this quarter, we have combined business banking and deposits for reporting purposes. Pretax earnings for Consumer & Business Banking increased 4% versus the fourth quarter driven by improved credit costs, as well as lower expenses. However, net income was relatively flat due to a higher tax rate. Average deposit balances increased 4%, or $18 billion compared to the fourth quarter driven by $11 billion of organic growth and $7 billion related to transfers from Global Wealth & Investment Management. As you know, we periodically move customers across business segments after an evaluation of how they can be best served by us.

Rates paid on deposits during the quarter declined 3 basis points due to pricing discipline and a mix shift in our deposits. Brokerage assets increased $6.7 billion from the fourth quarter, or 9% due to market appreciation and increased customer flows. We reduced banking centers during the first quarter as we continue to optimize the delivery network.

Our mobile banking customer base reached $12.6 million, which is up 5% from the fourth quarter and 30% from a year ago. Combined credit and debit card purchase volumes had a seasonal decline of 6% from the fourth quarter, but increased 3% from a year ago. US consumer credit card retail spend per average active account increased 7% from first quarter a year ago. Average loans did decline $1.6 billion from the fourth quarter due to seasonality and continued noncore portfolio runoff. And as I mentioned earlier, credit quality continued to improve with some of our credit quality indicators at historic lows.

If we turn to slide 12, we address one of the two businesses within our Consumer Real Estate Services area, home loans. As you know, the home loans business is responsible for first lien and home equity originations within Consumer Real Estate Services. First mortgage retail originations of approximately $24 billion were up 11% from the fourth quarter and were up 57% compared with retail originations from a year ago. We believe these increases are reflective of improvements in our retail marketshare.

Consequently, we are adding employees to improve our sales and fulfillment capacity, which is the driver behind higher expenses in home loans during the quarter. However, given lower margins realized during the first quarter, core production income decreased from the fourth quarter.

If we turn to slide 13, Legacy Assets & Servicing had a loss of $1.4 billion in the quarter, a significant improvement from the fourth quarter that was impacted by our settlements with Fannie Mae. The provision for reps and warranties in CRES was $250 million during the quarter. The MSR asset ended the quarter at $5.8 billion, up slightly from the end of the fourth quarter.

Although we announced the sale of mortgage servicing rights in January, the accounting sale will be recorded throughout the year as the servicing asset is transferred. MSR results, including hedges, were positive for the quarter. The capitalized MSR rate ended the period at 61 basis points versus 55 basis points at the end of the year and 58 basis points a year ago. Results did include approximately $700 million of litigation during the first quarter of '13, as well as a similar amount during the fourth quarter of 2012.

As you can see from our press release this morning, as well as on slide 24 in the slide presentation, we did reach an agreement in principal to settle for $500 million three class-action lawsuits involving Countrywide-issued RMBS. We feel very good about resolving these exposures, which addressed original principal balance RMBS that exceeded $350 billion, or what we believed represents approximately 70% of the unpaid principal balance of all MBS as to which securities disclosure claims have been filed or threatened as to all Bank of America-related entities.

Servicing income decreased 17%, or $182 million, compared to the fourth quarter. 47% of this decrease was related to the legal sale of MSRs in connection with the sales that we announced in January, together with other smaller MSR sales. The balance reflected payoffs that exceeded originations in the portfolio due mainly to our exit from the correspondent channel in late 2011 combined with the seasonality and the timing of mortgage payments.

The number of loans in our servicing portfolio totaled approximately $6.5 million at the end of March, down 866,000 from the end of the year due to actual transfers of approximately 570,000 and the rest due to payoffs. 60-plus day delinquent loans dropped from 773,000 units at the end of December to 667,000 units at the end of March, of which a third of the decrease is associated with transferred servicing. We continue to believe that our 60-plus day delinquent loans at the end of this year will be at 400,000 units or below.

If we turn to slide 14, Global Wealth & Investment Management had a very strong quarter. Earnings increased 25% to $720 million from the fourth quarter and continued to set post-merger records in several metrics. The pretax margin of approximately 26% was impacted by low credit cost and a higher contribution from corporate ALM activities, some of which we would not expect to continue.

Overall client activity in the wealth management business in the quarter was strong across all categories. Client balances were up $82 billion, or 3.8% from the fourth quarter, due to higher market levels and net positive flows offset somewhat by the net migration of deposits to consumer and business banking. Period-end deposits dropped $26 billion driven by $19 billion of net migration once again to Consumer & Business Banking. The rest of the decrease reflected year-end seasonality heightened by the fiscal cliff in client investment activity, including long-term assets under management activity. Ending loan balances were at record levels and long-term AUM flows were a record $20 billion, the highest quarterly amount since the Merrill merger and the 15th consecutive positive quarter.

Net income in Global Banking, slide 15, was $1.3 billion versus $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter and down from the first quarter of last year primarily due to higher provision expense due to loan growth and asset quality stabilization. Revenue increased 2% from the fourth quarter reflecting increased business lending revenue. Asset quality continues to improve. Net charge-offs declined $117 million, or 51%. Reservable utilized criticized exposure declined 6% and NPAs dropped 20% to $1.7 billion.

On slide 16, you can see corporatewide investment banking fees increased 26% from a year ago, but were down slightly from a record-setting fourth quarter in debt issuance. Per Dealogic, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch gained marketshare compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 and based on our reported peer results, we believe at $1.5 billion in investment banking fees during the first quarter of 2013, we were a very strong number two.

Average loans increased almost $12 billion from the fourth quarter, driven by growth in C&I, as well as within commercial real estate. Ending loan balances continue to be higher than average balances reflecting the momentum that we saw throughout the quarter. Average deposit balances at $221 billion for the first quarter declined approximately $21 billion compared to the fourth quarter, partially impacted by the expiration of TAG.

If we switch to Global Markets and flip to slide 17, net income of $1.4 billion increased approximately $1 billion, excluding DVA from the fourth quarter reflecting increased sales and trading activity. We did record DVA losses of $55 million in the first quarter of this year versus losses of $276 million in the fourth quarter and losses of $1.4 billion a year ago. Total revenue ex-DVA was up $1.9 billion, or 58% from the fourth quarter and was down 11% from the first quarter a year ago.

Sales and trading revenue ex-DVA increased $1.9 billion from the fourth quarter driven by our FICC business due to improved market sentiment. FICC revenue ex-DVA was up 85% from the fourth quarter due to improved customer activity across all product categories. Versus a year ago, FICC revenue was down 20% ex-DVA as market-making opportunities and credit products were reduced due to spread tightening being much more significant a year ago than what we experienced in the first quarter of this year.

Also contributing to the decline was a gain in credit products in the first quarter of last year that did not repeat and a decline in commodities revenue. In equities, excluding DVA, results increased 61% from the fourth quarter due primarily to improved trading performance and increased volumes in cash markets driving higher commissions. Versus a year ago, equity results were up 8% due to increased client financing balances. Average VAR of $81 million in the quarter is down from $100 million in the fourth quarter and effectively flat with the year-ago period.

On slide 18, we show you the results of all other, which to remind you includes our global principal investments business, the non-US consumer card business, our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate risk management insurance and the discontinued real estate portfolio, as well as the international wealth management business.

The loss of $867 million was driven mainly by first-quarter annual retirement-eligible costs. The $1.7 billion decline in net income versus the prior quarter was driven by the annual retirement-eligible costs in the absence of tax benefits that were recognized in the fourth quarter of last year. With that, let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Bruce. Before we take questions, I thought I would leave you with a few thoughts about the quarter. As you can see on slide 19, we continue to work to stabilize the revenue streams and begin to build the strength to drive in the future. At the same time, we continue to work on the cost structure, both reducing costs, at the same time investing in business, as Bruce talked to you earlier about the 4000 people we put to help drive our mortgage production or the 1000 more loan officers are examples. That in turn will help increase our profitability now and in the future.

We continue to see continued momentum in driving balance growth across all our customer groups. When you look in the consumer side this quarter, we were pleased with the growth in deposits, the continued stabilization and profitability of the credit card business and the ability to continue to drive the mortgage activity, the production activity the way we want to, up 50% plus year-over-year.

As you can see in our Global Wealth Management businesses, we have had a record level of assets under management come in from our industry-leading business and they had strong performance, including operating margins. As we think about the commercial lending business, you can see both year-over-year and linked quarter, we have had strong commercial loan growth as those businesses continue to produce strong profits for our Company. We remain strong in our investment banking revenue, as Bruce said, a number two positioning and we continue to drive our positioning in that business.

When you look at our capital markets business, as you can see, we continue to show good profitability and a strong increase from the fourth quarter, but we continue to maintain the low risk that's, in the methodology which you run that business, driven towards the customers we serve and making sure that we balance risk and reward at any turn.

We still have a lot of work ahead of us as a company. We feel good about where we are and the progress we made this quarter. We will continue to drive the earnings forward to deliver the results that you expect of us and we expect of ourselves. So let's open it up for Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Glenn Schorr, Nomura.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Hi, thank you. So good loan growth on the commercial -- C&I and commercial real estate side. Just curious what kind of yield is that bringing -- being brought on and from what I understand there's pretty reasonable competition for those new loans. So just curious on how you balance the growth and [marginal] pressure in the markets.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Good morning, Glenn. It is interesting, if we look at the commercial loan balances across the platform, the spread on the new originations was actually up slightly relative to both the fourth quarter of last year, as well as relative to the first quarter of last year. And it is interesting in that the loans that came on, not only were the spreads wider, but based on our internal risk ratings, the credit quality of what was being brought on was also stronger.

So we feel like we are doing -- the loans that we are bringing on, we are doing in a prudent way and you can see that, as you look at the -- in the supplements -- that a decent chunk of the loans that are being brought on are international, not any real concentrations, but both international, domestic and really across all products.

GLENN SCHORR: That's great. I appreciate that. I wanted to get -- your thoughts on the expenses from slide 9. I wanted to make sure that I understood. Should the starting point -- being that the retirement-eligible is a first-quarter phenomenon, is the starting point, the 18.12 less the 900 or so, as we think about second quarter and then folding in the New BAC incremental efficiencies?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think, Glenn, that's exactly right, that that $18.2 billion included the 900 from the retirement-eligible employees that only happens once a year. So you're right. As you go to the second quarter, the starting point should be $17.3 million.

The two other things that I would point out once again is that if you look at the compensation expense in the first quarter relative to the last couple quarters of last year, it was elevated by about $800 million based on the revenues that we saw within the sales and trading, the Global Banking and to a lesser extent the wealth management business. So we hope those repeat, but I would just highlight that that is a delta relative to the last several quarters of last year.

And then obviously, from that starting point, we would look to continue to drive down expenses based on the work that we have spoken about with New BAC that we would expect to achieve throughout the year.

GLENN SCHORR: Perfect. I appreciate that. And you also mentioned your long-term debt is down $75 billion year-on-year and you expect more maturities in '13 and '14 in the 20s. I guess that is perfectly straightforward. Does that include any adjustments for what is coming down the pike with OLA or do you just have to take a wait-and-see attitude on what those rules are?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think we obviously are paying close attention to the different OLA proposals. I think if you look at the mix between the Merrill debt, as well as the BAC debt and you compare those dollar amounts relative to risk-weighted assets and you compare us relative to our peers, at least all the work that we have done suggests that we are at the very high end of the amount of debt and related instruments that we have relative to risk-weighted assets. So the rules obviously are not clear at this point. We feel like we are positioned very well based on what we understand the different proposals are that are out there realizing it still is moving around. So as we go throughout the year, we would expect, as I said, to continue to drive that footprint down not only in 2013, but throughout 2014 and we continue to be very focused on that, Glenn.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Glenn, I would add that there is also a rationalization of the footprint. Remember this was put on by various companies, not by one company that we have been restructuring. So even if there is an amount outstanding, the cost can come down because you can string it out. The rates paid are fairly high because they are different environments than we [bid] in and expect to be in the next couple years. So there is even value even if you said the notional wouldn't move as far based on some interpretation of the rules that gets the debt footprint more rational, more spread across time than it is today.

GLENN SCHORR: All right, thank you both. I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Just to follow up a little bit on the fixed income trading results, obviously, it can be lumpy quarter-to-quarter, but it was down a little bit more than we saw elsewhere. You talked about some of the mortgage areas. Was there a particular gain last year that was unusual or is it just activity?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, as I said, we referenced three things. The first was there was a gain that, as you look at that decline that was in the area of $250 million that I would categorize more quite frankly as a recovery than a gain that we had highlighted during the quarter last year. So a decent chunk of that was a gain that did not recur.

Then I think it is important, if you go and look at during the quarter what we saw, the financial spreads, which tend to be a fairly significant part of any FICC trading business, tightened significantly in the first quarter of last year and during the first quarter this year, start to finish, actually widened. So that was the second piece of it.

And then the third piece, as we referenced, is that commodities had a particularly strong quarter last year and did not have as strong a quarter this year. So those three general things. I would say flows generally continued to be very strong and as you look at where we were relative to the fourth quarter of last year, I actually think we continue to make good progress, but it was a little lumpy in the first quarter of last year.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And Matt, I would add that, as you think about how we are running the Global Markets business, if you look at our VAR and our risk-taking, we are keeping a balance relative to the rest of the Company. And so there will be times when people do better than we are and times when we will do better than them, but we are keeping a balance.

The second thing that Tom Montag and the team have worked on is the expense side. So you can see the operating leverage when you look across the first quarter last year and this year and importantly the fourth quarter of last year to this year. You can see that, with a little bit of revenue, you generate a lot more profit. And so the idea is we are keeping this business so that we can make good money at a $3 billion -- some money at a $3 billion trading revenue level in the aggregate in the business, a lot of money at the $5 billion level and you are seeing that play out.

So if you think about it, we made money I think every trading day in the quarter. The VAR was down and so I think we should be careful to think that we may not roar as much as some people might, other people might because this is one of the many businesses we have and we drive it for the benefit of the investing customers and also the issuing customer.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thanks. That's helpful. And then just separately, in terms of your capital actions, I think many were positively surprised by the CCAR Fed approval for buybacks of both common and preferred. Just any commentary in terms of the pace of the common share repurchase and on the preferred side, the timing of that and do you have to issue any to replace what you are calling?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, two things on that. The first is you probably saw -- I believe on April 1, we actually went ahead and issued the redemption notices for the $5.5 billion of preferreds that are outstanding. It is just under $500 million of preferred dividend savings that we will have on that and there was no requirement to issue to replace that. So as you look at that redemption, that is a good redemption where you can look at those savings.

As it relates to the common, we would expect to be balanced and work through the share repurchase throughout the year and really don't have much more to comment on than that.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, KBW.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Thank you, Bruce and Brian, for taking my call. Bruce, I have a question. In the release you talk about -- I mean we have gone through expenses in terms of the stock compensation, if you will, in the quarter and also higher first-quarter compensation related to revenues. And you can kind of back that out and see what the run rate is for second quarter.

But you also mentioned that you expect to achieve $1.5 billion in cost saves per quarter by fourth quarter of 2013 related to Project New BAC. How do I account for that third piece of the pie? I know the stock compensation in the quarter, I know the overall compensation being high because of revenues. How do I account for New BAC and getting to a run rate of second quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. So what we have said, it's a good question, we have said that, at the end of 2012 on a quarterly basis, we would achieve $900 million per quarter of New BAC cost saves at the end of in the fourth quarter of 2012. So as you look to adjust your models, we will take that $900 million a quarter that we would have had in the fourth quarter and that will grow to $1.5 billion by the fourth quarter of 2013. Some of that we achieved during the first quarter and we would expect to continue to achieve that throughout the year.

And then the second piece, outside of the more one-timers that we've talked about in the first quarter, were the LAS expenses where we have said we will get that number below $2.1 billion by the end of 2013 and we obviously got that from$ 3.1 billion in the fourth quarter down to $2.6 billion. So in addition to those compensation-related items, we have got those two levers to continue to drive expenses down during the balance of the year.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: And just to be clear, the $1.5 billion in New BAC by fourth quarter 2013, what are the cost saves running in this quarter on New BAC? So with the delta I can kind of gauge.

BRUCE THOMPSON: We have not given an exact number. I think what you should do is, if you go back to slide 9 and look at the red bar, we have said that there was $800 million of increased incentives in that $13.8 billion. That gets the number down to $13 billion. You should assume that part of the benefit between $13.3 billion and $13 billion related to New BAC, but we have not given an exact number.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: That's great. Thanks so much for the color.

OPERATOR: Meredith Whitney, Meredith Whitney Advisory Group.

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY GROUP: Hi, good morning. I just wanted some commentary on sequencing of litigation reserves and what has been -- what has already been factored in in terms of the bulk of litigation settlements and then what is on the horizon. Thanks.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. It's a good question. One of the things, and I am going to walk through the different pieces and as it relates to overall litigation, as well as the rep and warrant, and I would ask you to flip back to slide 23 where we lay this out. And I think one of the things, Meredith, that we feel very good about the progress during the quarter is, if you walk through what we have laid out at the bottom of page 23, if we start with the reps and warrants, between the settlements at the beginning of 2011, as well as the Fannie settlement that we had at year-end, you can see that, as we lay out here, we are generally through the GSE exposure as it relates to rep and warrant.

You then go down to the monolines. There are three significant monolines that we did business with, five in total. We obviously have had previous settlements with two of those three monolines. The one that obviously gets a lot of press is MBIA that continues to be out there.

You then go down to the private-label rep and warrant and obviously the most significant piece of that is the Gibbs & Bruns settlement that will work through -- continues to work through the court process and we would expect the outcome of that to be during the third quarter of this year.

So as you look at reps and warrants, we are through a significant portion of that. We then -- if you then flip to the securities litigation, which is the other significant piece of the litigation expense, one of the reasons that we think the settlement that we announced today was significant is as I referenced. If we look at the original unpaid balance companywide of all of the securities that were underwritten, this settlement today relates to companywide about 70% of that.

So I don't think anyone is going to ever, at this point, declare complete victory. We do think that between the Fannie and related settlements and the lookback in the fourth quarter, as well as the settlement that we have announced today, that we are moving through in a pretty meaningful way this pipeline of items.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Got it. Thanks. That seems to be the big question for investors. Thanks so much.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, thanks. Bruce, just following up on that, you have, on that same page, the range of possible loss above additional accruals of up to $4 billion. There was some concerns that some of the recent legal decisions in the monoline cases, particularly around the causation issue, might have impacted your estimates there and it doesn't look like it did. Could you tell us why that hasn't changed any of your outlook on that RPL number?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. Once again, the RPL that we have within the rep and warrant will continue to be up to $4 billion. As we have said before, we cover -- at this point given we don't have repurchase history with the monolines, the monolines are covered within our litigation reserves and we have both litigation reserves, as well as range of possible loss for litigation and you should assume that there was some additional monies during the quarter in litigation expense that was set aside for the monolines.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then you noted that the settlement that you announced today covers 70% of issuance on which claims have been made. Is that what you said?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct. Not only -- claims or threatened claims, John.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. So what does that leave some of the higher profile government (inaudible) like FHFA and some of the things that we know about?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, the two most significant that are out there on the securities litigation that have been more public would be FHFA, as well as AIG.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And on the Gibbs & Bruns, the final hearing is in late May. I guess the deliberations could extend for a few months after that. Do you have any idea -- I guess you said third quarter. You hope to get the final resolution in the third quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is our best sense. Far be it from us to forecast that process, but our best estimate, to your point, would be the third quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then switching gears on the net interest income, Bruce, do you expect maybe to do better than the core $10.6 billion now that you have a little bit of loan growth in the day count or do you expect to kind of stay around that level?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think, at this point, where we have guided is we have said that with the work that we have done that, ex any market-related impacts, that $10.5 billion is a good starting point. That number can bounce around, but I would continue to look at that $10.5 billion in the near term as the right starting point.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And how about on credit cost? You had a nice move down this quarter. Do you still have capacity to take the reserves down further and do you expect the provision to make further progress below the $1.7 billion that you did this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, it's a good question, John. I think as we look at the charge-off and the move in charge-off -- to have almost a 20% decline in charge-offs I think speaks to the quality of the portfolio and the work that we had said had been done back in late '08 and early '09 as it relates to consumer underwriting. We have previously said that, as we look at provision, charge-offs will come down about the time that the releases also come down to get you to a level between 1.8 and 2.2. If you look at what we experienced this quarter and with what we are seeing as a trend, it clearly feels like we will be at the low end of that going forward.

JOHN MCDONALD: Yes, I mean this quarter you were below the range, right?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes.

JOHN MCDONALD: So are we setting a new range or you still think we should think about that range of 1.8 to 2.2?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I would think about it at the bottom of the range at this point.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then --.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And John, as it is clear, it is all about the home finance side now. You see the credit card businesses continue to make some incremental improvement, but it has made a dramatic improvement from the high points going back several quarters. But it is really about mortgages and everything you hear about in the market that we are witnessing in our portfolios in terms of house price improvement. Activity level continues to -- will bear well on that as we look forward.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. One more thing on, Bruce, on the revenue side. The servicing, mortgage servicing revenues seem to take a step down from the MSR sale. What should the cadence of that be going forward? Is part of the decline kind of built in from the phased-in sale?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think what we said is that roughly -- I think it was roughly $90 million to $100 million of the decline in servicing revenue was the result of the sales. We've said that we think, as we get to the end of the year, the sales will ultimately lead to a reduction in revenues of about $200 million related to the MSR sales. We obviously had a fair bit of that given that a decent chunk of the performing sales had an effective closed date on January 31. So we have clearly taken a piece of that and there's probably another $100 million a quarter to come relating to those sales by the end of this year.

Obviously, as you look at, and we tend not to just look at the revenue number, but we look at the contribution from a pretax perspective and obviously, as you see the work that we are doing within Legacy Assets & Servicing, we continue to think that the opportunities there are significant.

JOHN MCDONALD: And one more follow-up. How do you guys think about the ultimate target of MSR size and maintaining a balance between origination and servicing in the mortgage business for when rates eventually rise?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think as we look at, at this point, the MSR balance was roughly $5.8 billion at the end of the first quarter. If we were to pro forma those sales throughout the year, assuming rates stay where they are, it gets you down to about a $5 billion number from an overall capital perspective. Plus or minus that feels about right. Obviously any change from that is going to be a function of the opportunities to originate things that make sense versus any type of accelerated prepayments that may or may not happen. But I think $5 billion from an MSR balance perspective is not a bad number to be looking at.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: John, from the origination side, the first order of business was to, after we got out of the correspondent business, was to kind of get the business on an upward trajectory and if you go back and look starting in the fourth quarter '11, we've basically grown retail originations quarter after quarter after quarter. In this quarter again, we had another 15% odd off the fourth quarter last year.

But if you actually look at the headcount that you see on the pages, remember that we have got 1000 plus loan officers working this quarter that we didn't -- that weren't here last year that are trained and getting up to speed in the closing [rate]. So the next order of business is how to overcome the HARP refinancing levels, which we have in the portfolio and sort of get to a core run rate.

But there is no cap on us in terms of retail origination. We will do as much as we can do for our clients and you have seen us drive it forward every quarter and now we have more people, more trained, more up to speed, 4000 more people in the fulfillment area and we don't see the pipeline slowing down.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys. So in wealth management, just hoping to dig in. You guys highlighted a couple things that helped the margins move a bit higher, which it seems you don't think they are going to repeat. About how much of a tailwind were those items? And if we are looking ex -- how much of -- it seems as though maybe we might have enough draft anyway because we are looking at like a 500 basis point increase year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, a couple things. If you look at the -- we talked about credit costs. Credit costs, I think within the business there was roughly a $30 million reserve release during the quarter that we wouldn't assume is necessarily going to continue. But I think if you look at overall pretax margin, we have been at kind of in the 20%, 21% area. This quarter was 26%. I think the assumption going forward is that we will clearly be north of the 21%, but I wouldn't expect that in the near term we run at 26% either.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Sure, sure. I think you also highlighted the ALM as a tailwind too. Is there any way to quantify that and can you, forgive the potentially ignorant question, but can you help me understand the mechanics of how ALM will run through GWIM?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think the easiest way to look at it is, if you look at deltas, we had some of the market-based benefits that we quoted that were roughly $300 million during the quarter. A portion of that gets allocated to GWIM and if you look at the GWIM business, you can see that the net interest income was up about $100 million. So I will give you those pieces of data, but we are not going to quote exact numbers as to how we allocate that out, but it is a piece of that.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, that helps. Thanks, guys. And then last one, and sorry, it's a little bit technical, but on the NPAs, I guess you guys had said that 20% were from MODs or regulatory requirements. And we have run through the regulatory requirements before. Just hoping to understand on the MODs, it was my understanding that, after about six months of payments, the TDRs are reclassified as current. Do you guys account for TDRs differently than that or can you help me maybe understand how that works?

BRUCE THOMPSON: You are exactly right that once a borrower goes through the trial MOD period and gets to a permanent MOD, they need to be current for six months before we would look to bring those back in. And when you consider that number, realize that coming out of the National Mortgage Settlement, there was heightened modification activity during the third and fourth quarters in particular of last year. So we clearly would expect some of those to cross the six-month period during the second quarter, but realizing, if you go back to, I believe it was the third quarter when we adopted the regulatory guidance, the biggest of that $6 billion plus, north of $4 billion of that is the regulatory guidance that was given. So that is going to be the bigger piece of the two things.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks. That helps.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, good morning. A couple questions, one on mortgage. You indicated in the past that you were interested in increasing the mortgage origination share and you have done that. I am just wondering how close you are to where you want to be or are you still in the process of building out what capacity you want to have there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: As you can see, Betsy, on the page, you can see that the mortgage loan officers are up about 1000 year-over-year. We are still adding as we speak. The success of putting them in into the branch environments where you have the mortgage loan officer and FSA, personal bankers is multiples of the success in other branch environments and so we are just driving at that.

So I don't have -- the pipeline is still as strong as it has ever been. We are still -- we had thousands of people to get them closed on time and we are still working our tail off to get mortgage loans closed in time. I don't think there is any -- honestly there is any cap on where this could go. We still have tremendous opportunity within our client base that are unserved. The people, our clients go elsewhere to get their mortgages.

So we have seen it drive up 50% plus year-over-year, another $3 billion increase in (inaudible) production fourth quarter to first quarter. So I challenge the team, they have got to outrun the HARP at some point because that will die off, although it has been extended. But I just -- I wouldn't tell you there is any sort of cap. I think we should be able to drive it up to more of our natural share in things like deposits and stuff, which is more than the 10% level over time.

BETSY GRASECK: Great, okay. So go from 4% a couple quarters ago up to 10% to 12%?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, but it's going to take time. I mean we are talking about -- we have been about 0.2% increase in marketshare each quarter. So this is a lot of activity, but at $24 billion of retail production, we are in the top couple there, top two or three and our view is we ought to be able to push that forward.

BETSY GRASECK: And so two follow-ups on that. One is, on HARP you mentioned, how much of the production right now is HARP and how much HARP is in your footprint, your client base that you haven't done yet?

BRUCE THOMPSON: If we look at both combined MHA and HARP, that is just under 50% of the total for the quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And what is left in your client base to do that you haven't done yet? I mean how many more quarters of this do you think you have?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think, I would say generally there was more of it this quarter than we probably would've thought coming into the year and we are headed, not to give an exact number, but as Brian referenced, I would say overall pipeline in activity, as we went through the first quarter, continued to be very strong.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would expect that component though is probably at a strong point right now and will come down over the next three or four quarters just because frankly as we sell some of the servicing, some of that opportunity goes away. That was part of the transaction value that we got. But the key is, if you look at the non-HARP/HAMP type production, the non-HARP type production on making homes affordable production, you are seeing that grow at as fast a rate.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And you are just HARPing your current portfolio set? You are not going after other peoples? You have enough to do with your own portfolio.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have got enough to do with our own portfolio.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, okay. And then just separately, on page 6, you go through the regulatory capital. Could you just remind us what your expectation is for RWAs going forward, passive mitigation, active mitigation?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. I would say generally throughout the quarter with some of the growth that we have seen, and I assume you are referring to Basel III, Betsy?

BETSY GRASECK: Correct.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think we continue, as we go through over the next couple quarters, we would just say what we've continued to say, which is that with where we are from a DTA perspective as we go forward pretax should be the way that generally we are creating capital and I think as it relates to different mitigation opportunities, the biggest thing that we see out there is that as home prices continue to move up and we continue to see the home equity portfolio amortize, which has been about $3.5 billion a quarter, that there is a fairly significant tailwind as it relates to reductions in risk-weighted assets there.

As we go forward, the runoff of the structured credit portfolio that we have, we would expect to accelerate as we go into '14, '15 and '16. And that will obviously be gone by the end of '17. So that is an opportunity and then the third thing I would say is that we continue to work through, and you can see we made progress on the private equity portfolio this quarter and we will continue to wrap that up.

So I think -- but the biggest item as we go forward is just going to be the pretax income line. But I do think that there will continue to be other opportunities to drive that as well.

BETSY GRASECK: And the runoff of the structured credit, how much is that right now?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We have not given an exact number that we would expect that to run off, but you should assume it is north of $20 billion of risk-weighted assets.

BETSY GRASECK: Today in 1Q?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then the last question is on how you get to the $5 billion ask that you had for CCAR that got approved. Because with the 9.4% common Tier 1 ratio in [1Q3] and these RWA mitigation opportunities coming going forward, clearly you must know going into it that you were going to be well above the 8.5% FFC minimum that is out there and that you would be approaching the 10%, that kind of high end of the range scenario that people in business (inaudible) like yourself have targeted. So just wondering how you got to $5 billion and how we think about capital ask going forward.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. Well, I think, and Betsy, as we have spoken, I think there are three different metrics and ways that you get to looking at capital allocation and capital return. The first is obviously where your ratios are after stress through the CCAR process. And as you look at the results that we had, we ended up just above 6% after our ask, which, relative to our peers, we think positioned us well.

The second item, which, as you referenced, you moved to Basel III and we feel like we have done a very good job on Basel III and to your point are above the minimums, above buffers and feel like we have done a good job there.

And then the third, which is what you have heard us talking a lot about, is just driving the core earnings as the third component. And so we balanced all of those three. And I guess the other thing I would say, as you look at the ask, obviously we have got $5 billion that will get returned to the shareholders based on our plan, but I think -- I don't think you should also minimize though the other $5.5 billion that will go to redeem preferred stock because that preferred stock had coupons between 8% and 8 5/8%. It is not tax-deductible and we are not replacing it with other preferred stock.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning, guys. How are you? A couple of questions for you on retail. You have closed I think 262 branches if I am looking at the numbers correctly over the past year. Can you tell me how that number looks for the coming year and if there is some, quote, optimal number of branches that you want to maintain?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So I think, Betsy, we were clear that we, a few quarters ago, we said we would do the 750, and I would say -- excuse me, Nancy -- you were at 750 and I think we're -- and you can see that that number is close to 5000. So think about that as 5400 odd, getting down to 5000. The point was, at the time, we did an optimization thought process, looked at it, looked at customer behavior and got that number and we are busily doing that in a very thoughtful way so that we retain a lot of customers, especially on the consolidation side. And then also obviously, as you know, Nancy, we have exited some of the markets and sold community banks where they can get the leverage and the operations that we can't get in some of those markets.

So the question of what happens next I think is probably a question that we take up as we get into '14 and think about what the customer behavior change has been because we are seeing a fairly strong change in the behavior of the customers evidenced by the mobile volumes. And so not only do we have a number mobile customers -- mobile customers goes up to about 10,000 a day to 12,600. It is also what they do. So 100,000 checks a day get deposited by people taking pictures of them and type the numbers.

So that behavioral change we have got to keep monitoring. At the same time, we are building the centers to be these more destination with the [FFAs], which are brokers in branches, mortgage loan officers and so that configuration I think we are still testing. So I don't know the exact answer, but because the near term is to get the other 400 changed that we are talking about through.

If you step back from it, look year-over-year, the branches are down, the customer satisfaction is up and the deposits are up strongly, which is a nice combination.

NANCY BUSH: So what I hear you saying is that this, as you go into 2014, this 5000 branch number is not written in stone, is that correct?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Think of us as a retailer looking at what the best way to get the most out of the market and serve our customers best. And that will always be a subject we will talk about and we are making massive investments in other ATM architecture, virtual ATMs in the mobile space to make sure that we are right with our customers.

NANCY BUSH: And my second part to the question would be, Brian, in addressing all these changes in consumer behavior, etc., I mean has part of this program also been to address some of the service issues that you guys had encountered over the past few years as other stuff took more attention?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Absolutely. And part of it is continuing to upgrade the system. So if you look at our Company between 2009 and 2015, we will have rewritten all the systems and we will bring systems, which are more standalone product systems, into systems which are consistent with a customer approach, Nancy.

So the kinds of inquiries you get where we can see it first in one system, not in another system. Those are going away, frankly getting out of multiple deposit systems helps and so our complaints are down a lot, our attrition is way down and so we are seeing the benefits of this as we go through it. But absolutely, this is all geared at maintaining a customer posture, customer satisfaction posture, which is up year-over-year and driving it to places we haven't driven before honestly based on all the tools we have.

NANCY BUSH: And one question, one final question for Bruce. Bruce, the stock is down roughly about 3% in the market right now and there was some disappointment with the headline number. But all the ingredients for the quarter look pretty good. Was it your sense that the $900 million in seasonal costs was built into most estimates or was this a point of variance do you think?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think that there are probably two things. I think that the $900 million built into the estimates, which we have every period as we look out there, I think it was in some, not in others. So I don't think there was uniformity on that across. And then I think the other item that was out there is, as we look at a lot of the analysts, as they look at core, they don't include any litigation number and obviously there was a $900 million litigation number. We obviously need that to come down, but when I mentioned to Meredith's question, I think getting this class-action and shrinking the tale risk with respect to our mortgage-backed security litigation, tale risk was a significant item for us and we were able to get through that this quarter being generally in line with what you all had expected.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, SunTrust Robinson.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks. I just want to circle back to the litigation issues for a moment. And could you just help me understand what precisely at the upcoming hearing on the 30th is being debated? Is it simply the amount of the settlement or is it more the actual legitimacy of the process by which the settlement was derived?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's hard for us to predict what is going to happen on the 30th. But I think, as we have spoken to, that the process, and we are obviously not a part of this. This is Bank of New York Mellon in their capacity as trustee and obviously, the standard and what needs to be worked through is did they go through and were they prudent and did they follow a process to getting to the point to say that this settlement made sense for investors. And so that will be the general topic. We are not going to predict what exactly happens on the 30th besides that we obviously wouldn't have entered into the settlement if we didn't think that there was a basis for it.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Correct. I am certainly not asking you to anticipate an outcome. I just wanted to make sure it's not as narrow as the monetary settlement. It is the broader issue of whether BONY followed the appropriate procedures in terms of determining a settlement, is that correct?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: That's correct.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay, great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: David Hilder, Drexel Hamilton.

DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, DREXEL HAMILTON: Thanks very much. Just another litigation question. Is it fair to assume that the Countrywide RMBS that were included in the settlement that you announced this morning are all included in the securities that were the subject of the settlement of the Gibbs & Bruns and Bank of New York as trustee process?

BRUCE THOMPSON: There is clearly a significant overlap. I think as you look at the people that were part of the settlement today tended to be people that would have been original purchasers of the securities. With respect to Gibbs & Bruns, they could have either been original purchasers or subsequent purchasers, but there is overlap and as we have said in the release that the people that were part of the settlement today, to the extent that Gibbs & Bruns gets approved, they will receive whatever they would have otherwise received as part of Gibbs & Bruns.

DAVID HILDER: Okay. But looked at from the perspective of the Countrywide securities issues, again, would all of the ones in today's settlement be included in the other -- in the Bank of New York as trustee settlement?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, because, as we said in the release, this covers 80% of the Countrywide securities, of which Gibbs & Bruns was obviously a more than -- a very significant piece. So you're absolutely correct in that.

DAVID HILDER: Okay. And then I don't know if there is anything you can say on this, but any prospective statement about the settlement or possible timing of resolution for the various alphabet soup of remaining litigation, MBIA, FHFA and AIG?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, there is really nothing that we would say there. I think I would just reiterate though that, as you look at the component of what we settle today from a securities litigation perspective, as it relates to current outstanding amount, as well as what was originally underwritten, it is obviously a significant piece of that. We continue to want to resolve and get these legacy issues put behind us. At the same time, between the capital that we have built and the number of them that we have put behind us, it has to make sense for the shareholders.

DAVID HILDER: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, just like on the trusts that were outside of the Bank of New York, you did provide, on a similar basis. Is there anything you can say about the other lawsuits as to whether there is a provision that has been in there for them based upon some of the experience in the other cases?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I am not sure what you are talking about.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Well, I mean you just (multiple speakers). Right, well you have had experience with some of the monolines. I don't know if it is like a facts and circumstances when you think about MBIA or -- so how do you think about whether there has been a provision there or -- and the same thing for the FHFA lawsuits? Are there elements of some of the others that cause you to have had some degree of provisioning for them or would that only happen once those get advanced?

BRUCE THOMPSON: They are all in the litigation reserves, which are not on that page. Those are just the rep and warranty reserves. The monolines, the FHFA and those are in litigation reserves because FHFA and AIG are RMBS cases.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right. But I mean the question is is there -- should we think about there having been a component of them or is that all going to be pending?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well, the -- I want to make sure I understand the question. So within the -- as you go through the litigation reserves, we have reserves for those litigation items that we have the basis to reserve. To the extent that we don't have the basis to reserve, we have a range of possible loss. So as it relates to these items, those are the two ways that we work through the reserves.

In the litigation reserves, as we have said before, are where we house reserves for litigation matters, as well as, as I said, the monolines reside within that litigation bucket as well because we are in litigation with them. And then obviously as you move to the rep and warrant reserves, we have got the actual reserves and then we have also disclosed the range of possible loss for those items that we don't have the basis to reserve.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay, thanks. I'll take that off-line. Just a second question with respect to the mortgage business and the gain on sale. The primary/secondary spread did end the quarter lower than where it was on average. Talk a little bit about how you see that gain on sale trending into Q2 and as we go forward.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well, I think that there is -- as we look, I would say that if we look at where we ended the quarter relative to where we started, I would say that it feels at this point that the spreads at this point have somewhat settled out. But obviously those spreads are going to be a function of activity versus capacity and we will have to see how that unfolds over the quarter.

We have obviously built up, and as Brian referenced, have built up the capacity to do what we need to do for our customers and we will just need to see where those margins go throughout the quarter. But, at this point, there was obviously a stepdown in margins during the first quarter. It feels to some extent as if that has leveled out, but we will have to see how it plays out over the second quarter.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Matthew Burnell, Wells Fargo.

MATTHEW BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Thanks for taking my question. Most of my questions have been asked and answered already. But just a quick question in terms of the deposit cost. You have got your domestic deposit costs down to sub 20 basis points. You have got somewhat higher costs outside the US, although obviously much smaller balances. Is there any -- how are you thinking about being able to reduce though the non-US deposit cost, particularly in the time deposit categories over the next 6 to 12 months?

BRUCE THOMPSON: You are right. The international component is obviously a very small component. Those are large -- they are almost exclusively either wholesale deposits that are out there. I am not sure you're going to see much movement in that. I think to your earlier question, where the majority of the deposits are and where the majority of the cost of the deposits are those housed in the US. And you can see that as we build up the core deposits, the amount of time deposits that we have here in the US, we would expect those to continue to come down. And as those come down, all other things being equal, you would expect deposits here domestically, the cost of those to continue to move down.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Okay. And now a bigger picture question on OLA. You have got about $134 billion of long-term debt at Bank of America Corporation as of the end of the year, an additional $90 billion of Merrill Lynch debt. When you are thinking about OLA, does any -- do you think about potentially explicitly agreeing to support the Merrill Lynch debt? Does that help you at all under OLA or are you planning on just maintaining the status quo on that basis?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think as I have said before, I think the OLA rules continue to evolve. If you look out at our annual filings that we have put out there, we have said that we are looking at does it make sense to have a Mellon Co. merged into BAC. That is ongoing work that continues. We believe ultimately, as the Merrill debt runs off and to the extent there is reissuance, it's at the Bank of America level, so we pick up that benefit. Like I said, as we look at any ratio, and as we consider the different rules, it feels like we will have more than enough in total parent company debt relative to risk-weighted assets.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Okay. And then just one final question. You had mentioned the time to required funding has come down a little bit from the end of last year and you intend on maintaining that at above two years. Should we think about that coming down closer to 24 months over the next 6 to 12 months or is it too early to tell?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Two things. The first is -- the one thing, when you mentioned it came down in the quarter, realize that one of the reasons why it came down is that we have included the $5.5 billion of preferred redemptions in the time to required funding, so that largely drove that.

But to your question, it is a good one. We would expect over time that the amount of parent company liquidity that we have would tend to come down over time. As we get through the '13 and '14 maturities, we still believe we can bring the parent company liquidity down, bring the cost of it down and you are right, we will keep time to required funding at at least two years. Initially given we work through maturities, that will stay elevated in the high 20s, 30, but the goal is to obviously flatten out the maturities and have that become more in the two-year area, which is consistent with what we have been saying for some time.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Right. Okay, thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, I had a question on litigation, but before we go there, just there was an article saying that, Brian, you were leading a revenue push at the Company and I was wondering if this is a tweak, a strategic change. And as far as a revenue push starting from the top, is that because of what Bank of America is not doing or is it because of the weaker-than-expected environment or both?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have been driving the Company and so there has been two basic pieces of strategy. One is to continue to push the legacy issues and costs (inaudible) out of the Company. At the same time, take the Company and drive the underlying business metric. So that has been going on and as we clean up more of the former, then the focus of the Company is on the latter. And involved in the latter -- in other words, driving the core Company was that we had say credit card, a big book of business that we were running off that, we are getting towards the end of that or less impact quarter-to-quarter and now we have got to grow the credit card business. So this quarter, I think we did 900,000 plus credit cards, which is the highest amount we have done in a quarter since 2008 or something like. 70% of those are through the branch structure and through the preferred business and things like that.

So the goal is to continue to drive this Company and get the value of the combination of all the pieces of businesses through it. It is not a new push. It is just as the other issues go away, this is what the team has to be focused on. So we are seeing great progress in some of the businesses and look at the GWIM business and look at the connectivity to the GWIM business. We literally have millions of referrals that go between businesses a year. We goal those at 30%, 50% increases every year and we see that number is being hit and it's tracked in every single market, 100 plus markets, with about 20 different pieces of business flows between businesses that we track and monitor on a monthly basis.

It is all geared to just driving the value of the franchise and frankly delivering the customers' entire franchise. And it appears in all the businesses, whether it is in the commercial business bringing our 401(k) platform, which is new to the Bank of America structure since Merrill came in and we just see that -- wins in that happening every day. It is bringing the capital markets expertise deep in our middle-market business. It is bringing the personal side of the wealth management business to our business entrepreneurs. It is all those things.

And so there is -- new is probably a word that overstresses it. It is what we have to do to drive the revenue and continue to work the expenses to produce the bottom line we need.

MIKE MAYO: All right. So as you finish or move further along with the cleanup, just more external focus?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, and I always -- Mike, one of the tough things is we have 260,000 people in this Company and a lot of them have been focused on this and it is just their time to shine and the rest of what Bruce and I have been working on and others, restructuring the balance sheet and getting the capital up, getting liquidity, legacy issues are starting to fade away.

MIKE MAYO: And then a separate question, back to the litigation. The 10-K and some 10-Qs say that if the courts disagree with the argument of loss causation then the reserves may need to go up and that has not taken place, your range of possible loss is about the same. So I'm trying to reconcile those two thoughts because it seems as though, with Assured versus Flagstar, loss causation was shot down and some other comments in the courts. So how do I reconcile what happened with Flagstar, some other court comments that shoot down loss causation with the comment in your 10-K?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think that the -- the couple things that I would say is that the first is, and I am not going to drill into the Flagstar case, but I want to be clear, Flagstar gave a borrower fraud reference and that was part of that case, which is not something we have done. But at a high level, Mike, I would go back to -- that is correct. It is in the disclosure and as I said in my earlier comments, within the litigation reserve during the quarter, we reassess those every quarter and we did provide, within the litigation expense, some element of cost with respect to monolines during the quarter.

MIKE MAYO: And the big question here is what happens if the $8.5 billion settlement doesn't go through? And I asked Bank of New York that question this morning and the answer from Bank of New York is well it is up to the courts to decide. But what if the courts decide the $8.5 billion agreement does not go through, what would be the impact on your reserves?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think that the first thing is that the court is not opining on a number. They are either opining on approving or not approving and obviously, if they don't approve, we have set up reserves within the Countrywide securities, assuming that every trust gets to the 25% threshold. And so, obviously, if it doesn't get approved, this will revert back to going individual trust by trust and working through it. But I don't think it is appropriate to comment on reserves on something that we don't even -- don't know what -- the extent it's not going to happen.

MIKE MAYO: So you have $8.5 billion in reserves for the $8.5 billion settlement and that may change, but you will wait and see what happens May 30th?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct. And I think the other important thing is when we set up the $8.5 billion to the Countrywide, we also used that same methodology with respect to bank-issued securitization rep and warrant to set up reserves based on the same methodology across the Company.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

THOMAS LATURNEAU, ANALYST, FBR: Good morning. This is actually [Thomas Laturneau] on behalf of Paul. I have a quick follow-up and I just want to make sure I heard you guys right. Did you say that 50% of your total originations were HARP and if so, would that imply that -- I guess what I am asking is do you think you can replace that with sort of normal retail volume if HARP starts to dissipate in the back half of the year?

BRUCE THOMPSON: To be clear, the 50% was both MHA as well as HARP.

THOMAS LATURNEAU: Okay.

BRUCE THOMPSON: And it was slightly -- and in fact, if you think about it year-over-year, the growth rate of the non -- those activities -- has actually been as strong as the growth rate. And that is the challenge going forward is just how do we keep an originated broader product set. But right now, that is an opportunity, which is here and near and it goes away over time, but the rest of the production continues to grow at a fast pace also.

THOMAS LATURNEAU: Okay, great. That's helpful. And one additional question real quick. Can you tell me what type of products you are actually portfolioing right now?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Within the consumer mortgage business?

THOMAS LATURNEAU: Yes.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Largely nonconforming. And obviously we are not looking to go out -- what we want to do is to provide the mortgage product and balance sheet for that, which there isn't another alternative and we are pressing hard within the different businesses. The mortgage activity within the wealth management business this quarter was very strong, as well as within the mass affluent client space. So that is largely the focus.

THOMAS LATURNEAU: Okay, great. Thanks for taking my question.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Just on the underwriting of those though, you should be rest assured that the underwriting is consistent with very strong underwriting that is going on in the industry totally right now.

THOMAS LATURNEAU: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Okay, I think we are through the questions. So once again thanks for joining us this morning and we will be talking with you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's program. Have a great day. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130424e94h001xi
  


 HD
 Q4  2012  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,648 words
   PD
17 January 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to today's program. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). Please note today's call is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. And with that, let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Kevin and thank all of you for joining us on a busy day. In 2012, we laid out our four focus areas for the year -- capital, managing our risk, reducing costs and driving our core business growth. In each area, we achieved strong results this year and we are carrying that momentum forward as we look to 2013. So let's start on page 4 of our presentation. We positioned our Company with a strong balance sheet this year. The estimated capital ratios now are above current Basel 3 requirements and we have seen improving credit quality. And as you know, we have addressed many legacy issues that Bruce will talk about later. As a result, the [coring] power of the Company, the coring power that our team has been driving all year can now shine through more clearly as we look forward.

We've positioned our Company to driving our core customer relationship strategy. That strategy continues to accelerate our growth by simply helping those people we serve with their financial lives. We've positioned our Company by reducing costs, making our operations leaner and more efficient and investing in our growth initiatives at the same time. We continue to streamline all our businesses. We focus it on those three customer groups that we talk about on each call -- people, companies, institutional investors. And on page 5, we highlight some of the progress we have made in the last quarter and last year.

On the consumer side, our deposits continue to grow. Our retail mortgage production has increased by an average of 10% per quarter over the past three quarters. The pipeline today remains as strong as it was at the end of the third quarter. As you know, we continue to optimize our service network, our branch network as online and mobile banking numbers continue to increase. We are now averaging about 10,000 new mobile subscribers a day.

In our Preferred client area, the growth this year has been strong. The evidence of that is our brokerage assets in Merrill Edge are up 14% from a year ago. Moving to our wealth management businesses, US Trust and Merrill Lynch, those businesses had strong loan, strong deposit, strong revenue growth this year and earnings and pretax margin were also at record levels.

As we think about the companies, the corporations and middle market companies we serve across the country and around the world, our loan growth continues to expand, particularly in the second half of 2012. Global Banking ended with loans of $288 billion, up from $265 billion at the end of June. Investment banking fees for these clients are strong and we maintained our number two market position. In the fourth quarter, we had a leadership position in debt underwriting.

As we move to our Global Markets business, and it serves the institutional investors, our research capabilities continue to be recognized as the best in the world for the second straight year. As we look at 2012, sales and trading revenue did well in a relatively difficult environment. In 2012, our trading revenues were up 20% from 2011, excluding the impacts of DVA and we did that while we reduced cost in this business by over 10%.

So thinking about it, looking across every customer group we serve, you can see our strategy we put in place continues to drive results. We continue to fine-tune this strong core franchise focusing on those industry-leading capabilities we have to serve our clients and customers in every area.

But while we are doing that, we continue to work on our expenses. Bruce is going to take you through the highlights in a few pages. But if you think about it from the top, we reduced our delinquent mortgage count, which allowed us to reduce our LAS expenses. We have reduced our employee count in each quarter in the last five and we have done that while we continue to invest in our targeted growth areas.

Our strategy continues to work. We are seeing growth across all the core businesses. We are seeing that momentum continue to accelerate, so as we look forward to 2013, we are going to continue to drive this strategy and drive the earnings power of our Company. Thank you and I will turn it over to Bruce to take you through the results in detail.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Great. Thanks, Brian and good morning, everyone. I'm going to start on slide 6. As you all saw this morning, we reported net income for the quarter of $732 million, or $0.03 a share for the quarter. I am going to spend a moment on the previously announced items in the geography on the income statement so that you can better understand the quarter.

Reported revenues net of interest expense were $18.9 billion during the quarter. If you look in the bottom left-hand corner of this slide, you can see our revenues were negatively impacted by five items totaling approximately $3.7 billion. Those items included a $2.5 billion charge for reps and warranties with respect to the Fannie Mae settlement; approximately $0.5 billion related to the clarification of our obligations under mortgage rescissions; negative DVA and FVO of approximately $700 million relating to the significant tightening of our credit spreads that we saw during the quarter and then a positive $700 million between the change in the MSR valuation related to the servicing sales, as well as our sale in our Japan joint venture.

If we move to the right on the expense side, our expenses were negatively impacted by approximately $2.3 billion due to our previously announced independent foreclosure review acceleration agreement, as well as approximately $900 million of litigation expense and $300 million of compensatory fees. In addition, during the quarter, we did have a positive net tax adjustment primarily related to tax credits that are associated with certain non-US subsidiaries.

If we turn to slide 7, a lot of numbers. I would like to draw your attention to three line items. The first, deposits were up $42 billion, or 4%, from the end of the third quarter to the end of the fourth quarter. During the fourth quarter, we reduced our long-term debt footprint by approximately $11 billion, but more significantly, during all of 2012, our debt footprint came down by almost $100 billion, or 26%. We accomplished that reduction in our debt footprint while our overall liquidity sources remained in the range of $370 billion to $380 billion.

Turning to slide 8, and looking at Basel 1 capital, Basel 1 capital declined during the quarter to a still very strong 11.06%. The decline was the result of our pretax loss, as well as approximately $500 million of common and preferred stock dividends. In addition, during the quarter, our risk-weighted assets grew by approximately $10 billion as the strong growth that we saw in the investment and corporate bank more than offset the reductions in the consumer business.

If we turn to slide 9, I'd like to spend a few minutes on Basel 3 capital. We estimate that our Tier 1 common capital under Basel 3 on a fully phased-in basis would have been 9.25% at the end of the year. Our estimate once again assumes approval of all models with the exception of the change in the comprehensive risk measure for CRM after one year under the US Basel 3 NPRs. This 9.25% is a 28 basis point improvement over our estimate of 8.97% at the end of the third quarter of this year.

While our Tier 1 common capital declined as a result of the pretax loss, lower OCI and higher threshold deductions, this was more than offset by a reduction in our risk-weighted assets. Driving the RW decline during the quarter were lower exposures, particularly in consumer real estate and market risk, improved credit quality and updates of our recent loss experience in our models. We estimate that our Tier 1 common capital at the end of the quarter was $128.6 billion while our risk-weighted assets were approximately $1.4 trillion under Basel 3. And as you all know, Basel 3 ratios are more sensitive to changes in credit quality, portfolio composition, interest rates, as well as earnings performance.

If we turn to slide 10 and look at funding and liquidity, our global excess liquidity sources were at $372 billion at the end of the fourth quarter, down $8 billion from the prior quarter driven by a reduction of our long-term debt footprint of approximately $11 billion during the quarter. During the fourth quarter, we redeemed $5.3 billion of TruPS and other long-term debt.

You may have seen last week, we raised approximately $6 billion in the aggregate for 3, 5 and 10-year notes to take advantage of strong investor demand. As we look forward though, we do expect to continue to see long-term debt decline, primarily through maturities consistent with our overall goal of optimizing the cost associated with both our debt and capital. As we do so, we expect that our time to required funding will consistently remain above two years coverage and that metric at the end of 2012 was at 33 months.

On slide 11, net interest income, we reported an increase in net interest income from $10.2 billion in the third quarter to $10.6 billion in the fourth and an improvement in our net interest margin of about 3 basis points to 2.35%. As we consider that number, we benefited during the quarter from less negative impact of market-related premium amortization expense. We continued to benefit from the shrinkage in our long-term debt footprint, as well as improved trading-related net interest income. Partially offsetting those benefits were lower asset yields, as well as lower consumer loan balances.

If you adjust for the market-related items that I just referred to, we are in line with the estimated range of net interest income of $10.5 billion before market-related impacts we have discussed during our past earnings announcements. Given [long end] rate levels at the end of December, we estimate that quarterly net interest income may come in around a base of $10.5 billion plus or minus for FAS 91 and day count for the next several quarters. The impact of our liability management actions and long-term debt maturities are expected to help offset headwinds from continued pressure on consumer loan balances, as well as the overall low rate environment.

On slide 12, we highlight the results of our Consumer & Business Banking. Earnings were $1.4 billion for the quarter, an increase of $143 million, or 11% from the third quarter, driven by higher revenue more than offsetting higher non-interest expense. Service charges were lower due in part to our actions that we took around Hurricane Sandy to further support our customers in the region. Average deposits increased more than $6 billion, or 1.3% from the third quarter.

On the slide 13, we list some of the key indicators for our Consumer & Business Banking for the quarter. In our deposits business, the average rate paid on deposits declined 3 basis points -- 3 basis points during the quarter to 17 basis points. Our mobile banking customer base reached 12 million, which is an 8% increase from the prior quarter and up 31% from a year ago. We reduced banking centers as we continue to optimize the delivery network around customer behaviors. Credit card purchase volumes per active account increased 7% from the fourth quarter of 2011. The US credit card loss rate is at its lowest level since 2006 while the 30 plus day delinquency rate is at a historic low.

On slide 14, and before we get into Legacy Assets & Servicing, we summarize the specific mortgage items that we announced on January 7, including our settlements with Fannie Mae, sales of mortgage servicing rights and the acceleration agreement on the IFR. During the quarter, these items had a negative pretax income on fourth-quarter LAS revenue of $2.6 billion and in the expense category of $2 million resulting in an aggregate net income impact of $2.9 billion in LAS within our Consumer Real Estate Services segment.

If we turn to slide 15 now, we break out the two businesses within CRES -- Home Loans and LAS. Home Loans reported an increase in net income to $281 million while LAS reported a net loss of $4 billion, including the approximately $2.9 billion of items I just highlighted. As you all are aware, the Home Loans business is responsible for first lien and home equity originations within CRES.

First mortgage retail originations of $21.5 billion were up 6% from the third quarter driven by refinancings and up 42% compared with retail originations of approximately $15 billion in the prior year-ago quarter. You can see this same type of trend in our core production income, which is up from the third quarter and almost double results from a year ago. As you know, we exited the correspondent business in late 2011, so correspondent originations are non-existent versus volumes of approximately $6.5 billion a year ago.

The MSR asset within LAS ended the quarter at $5.7 billion, up $629 million from the end of the third quarter, due in part to the valuation adjustments previously discussed related to the sale of MSRs. MSR hedge results during the quarter were positive and we ended the period with the MSR rate at 55 basis points versus 45 basis points in the third quarter and 54 basis points one year ago.

If we turn to slide 16, we show some comparisons of certain metrics in Legacy Assets & Servicing on a linked quarter basis, as well as compared to fourth quarter a year ago to reflect the work done to reduce delinquent loans and find homeowner solutions. As you recall, Legacy Assets & Servicing reflects all of our servicing operations and the results of our MSR activities.

Total staffing in the quarter, including contractors and offshore, decreased approximately 9,000 from the third quarter. The number of first lien loans serviced dropped 7% in the quarter while the number of 60 plus day delinquent loans dropped 17% to 773,000 units. We expect this drop in 60-day plus delinquencies should have a positive impact on our staffing levels and servicing costs going forward as we were fully staffed in the second half of last year to handle the various new programs and regulations.

We have referenced our January 7 announcement of agreements to sell MSRs totaling $306 billion aggregate unpaid principal balance. This represents 2 million loans of which 232,000 are 60 plus day delinquent. The transfers of these servicing rights are scheduled to occur in stages over the course of 2013 with the delinquent loans scheduled to be transferred after the current loans. Currently, we recognize approximately $200 million in servicing fees per quarter associated with these loans, which is expected to decrease throughout the year as we actually transfer the servicing. However, the impact on earnings from lower revenue is expected to be negligible for the year as we expect expenses to also decrease as we transfer the servicing, especially the 60 plus day delinquent loans.

We believe our serviced 60 plus day delinquent loans at the end of 2013 may be around 400,000 units versus 773,000 units at the end of 2012, a decrease of approximately 50%. That implies an additional decrease of 150,000 units beyond the 232,000 units that are expected to go with the scheduled transfers.

Given the projected declines in 60 plus day delinquent loans and notwithstanding their being a one to two-quarter lag between delinquent loan transfers and expense decrease, we believe we can get expenses in the fourth quarter of 2013 down by more than $1 billion from the $3.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012, excluding the impact of IFR and litigation.

On slide 17, we show outstanding claims at the end of December, but, as you know, a significant portion of GSE claims has been addressed in our settlement with Fannie Mae. If we exclude the rep and warrant amounts addressed in the settlement of $12.2 billion from GSE outstanding claims of $13.5 billion, pro forma outstanding GSE claims would have been $1.3 billion at the end of the year. Total outstanding claims on a pro forma basis would then be $16.1 million. Remember that the table reflects unpaid principal amounts versus the actual losses projected on the loans.

Outstanding claims in the quarter from private-label counterparties increased approximately $1.7 billion from the end of September. And an anticipated increase in our aggregate non-GSE claims was taken into consideration when we developed our reserves at the time of the BNY settlement and we continue to review our assumptions on a quarterly basis. Unresolved claims with monolines remains static as much of our activity with the monolines revolves around litigation issues.

Reserves for representation warranties at the end of the quarter increased to $19 billion of which $8.5 billion is associated with the BNY settlement and approximately $6 billion is associated with the GSEs. We currently estimate that the range of possible loss for both GSE and non-GSE representations and warranties exposures could be up to $4 billion over accruals at December 31 compared to up to $6 billion over accruals at September 30. This decrease is the result of our settlement with Fannie Mae in the range of possible loss now principally covers non-GSE exposures.

On slide 18, in Global Wealth & Investment Management, earnings for the quarter of $578 billion -- excuse me -- $578 million were up slightly from record results in the third quarter. The pretax margin was 21%. This quarter, we did move two businesses that we agreed to sell, International Wealth Management and our brokerage joint venture in Japan, to the All Other segment, including the results in past quarters for comparability.

Overall, client activity in the Wealth Management business in the quarter across all categories was quite robust and was aided by client actions due to the fiscal cliff. Period-end deposit growth of approximately $23 billion and period-end loan growth of $3.5 billion helped offset the impact of the continued low rate environment. Ending loan balances were at record levels and long-term AUM flows of $9.1 billion were the second-highest quarterly amount since the Merrill merger and the 14th consecutive positive quarter.

Net income of $1.4 billion in Global Banking on slide 19 is an increase of more than 10% from the third quarter and reflects higher revenue and lower expenses. Average loans and leases increased $10.8 billion, or 4% from the third quarter, with growth across C&I, as well as commercial real estate. Average deposit balances increased $15.8 billion, or 6% from the third quarter, to $268 billion as our customer base continued to be very liquid. Asset quality continued to improve from prior quarters as we have seen over the last year. NPAs dropped 20% to $2.1 billion and reservable utilized criticized exposure declined 11%.

On slide 20, we outline our investment banking fees for the quarter. You can see that our debt underwriting area was up $213 million from the third quarter to $1.078 billion in revenues and our advisory business was up approximately $80 million to $301 million for the quarter. Corporation-wide investment banking fees were up 20% from the third quarter and 58% from the year-ago period. Debt underwriting fees were a record for the quarter and we believe number one on a global basis during the quarter. From an overall investment banking fee perspective, we maintained our number two global ranking in net investment banking fees during 2012 based on Dealogic data.

Switching to Global Markets on slide 21, earnings, excluding DVA, were $326 million. Excluding DVA and the UK corporate tax charge in the third quarter, net income decreased compared to the third quarter driven by lower sales and trading revenue reflecting a seasonally slower fourth quarter. Sales and trading revenue, excluding DVA, was down 23% from the third quarter, but improved substantially from levels a year ago. Within our FICC area, excluding DVA, revenues of $1.8 billion decreased from $2.5 billion in the third quarter primarily as a result of lower volumes and reduced client activity, but were up $1.3 billion, or 37% from a year ago.

In equities, excluding DVA, results were flat with the third quarter as lower volatility and continuing lack of investor appetite for equity products kept volume suppressed. Expenses declined from both the third quarter and the prior year primarily driven by lower personnel expense.

On slide 22, we show you the results of All Other, which includes our Global Principal Investments business, the non-US consumer card business, our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate risk management, the international wealth management business we agreed to sell, insurance, as well as our discontinued real estate portfolio. The revenue improvement in All Other from the third quarter was mainly due to a lower negative valuation adjustment on structured liabilities under fair value option of $442 million compared to a negative $1.3 billion in the third quarter and higher equity investment income as a result of the sale of our brokerage joint venture in Japan.

Non-interest expense declined compared to the third quarter due to lower litigation costs as the third quarter included the Merrill Lynch class-action settlement. Also contributing to net income in the quarter was the foreign tax credit benefit that I mentioned at the beginning of the presentation.

As you can see on slide 23, total expenses increased compared to the third quarter, but were down from a year ago. Excluding LAS expenses, the independent foreclosure review and litigation, expenses in the quarter were $13.3 billion versus $12.9 billion in the third quarter and $14.7 billion a year ago. The $400 million increase from the third quarter reflects the normal seasonal trend and represented non-personnel costs. FTE at the end of the quarter was down approximately 5,000 from the third quarter and 15,000 from a year ago.

An important driver behind the reduction of $1.4 billion in expenses from fourth quarter a year ago is New BAC, which we have discussed with you several times. If you remember, total annual cost savings targeted with New BAC are $8 billion per year, or $2 billion on a quarterly basis, which we said we would hit sometime in mid-2015. In the fourth quarter, we achieved approximately $900 million of the $2 billion, which is 45% of our target. As a reminder, the first quarter every year includes the annual retirement eligible stock compensation, which was $900 million in the first quarter of 2012 and this year, we expect will be a similar amount plus or minus.

While we are talking about expenses, let me comment on taxes. Tax expense for the quarter was a benefit of $2.6 billion consisting of the expected tax benefit of the pretax loss, our recurring tax preference items and the $1.3 billion primarily related to the non-US restructurings. For 2013, we estimate the effective tax rate to be somewhere around 30%, including $800 million or so for another expected 2% UK tax rate reduction, which we would expect in the third quarter.

If we switch to overall credit quality on slide 24, provision was $2.2 billion versus $1.8 billion in the third quarter as lower charge-offs were more than offset by lower release. Overall credit quality trends continue to be positive even when we normalize for the events in the third quarter. If you'll recall, regulators provided new guidance to the industry in the third quarter of this year around loans discharged as part of a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, which resulted in increased net charge-offs of $478 million in the third quarter.

In addition, we incurred charge-offs of $435 million in the third quarter in connection with the National Mortgage settlement. We did not have impacts to net charge-offs of a similar magnitude in the fourth quarter, but did have $73 million related to the completion of the implementation of the regulatory guidance. Excluding these items, net charge-offs were down $178 million, or 6%.

We believe most portfolios are close to stabilization and overall reserve reductions are expected to continue but at reduced levels. Given our outlook for a slow growth but healthy economy, we believe provision expense in 2013 will range between $1.8 billion and $2.2 billion per quarter, the levels experienced between the second and fourth quarters of 2012. Excluding the fully insured portfolio, 30 plus day performing delinquencies continue to drop. NPAs were down $1.4 billion from the third quarter and $4.2 billion from a year ago. On the commercial side, reservable criticized levels showed a decline of 8% from the third quarter and 42% from a year ago.

Before we open up for questions, let me say and reiterate Brian's comments that we feel very good about our accomplishments in 2012. We improved the balance sheet, we managed risk and we addressed significant legacy issues and were successful in reducing certain of our exposures. We have stepped up our focus on growing the business and some of that focus is evident this quarter when you look at deposit growth across the franchise, loan growth in the Global Bank, solid Investment Banking results and in GWIM, strong deposit AUM and loan flows.

We enter 2013 all about moving the ball forward and winning in the marketplace with what we think is the best banking franchise in the world. And with that, let me go ahead and open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. A couple of follow-ups. I guess starting on the expenses, I appreciate the outlook on the legacy costs. As we think about kind of the All Other expenses that you pointed to of $13.3 billion, with some seasonal stuff this quarter, maybe you could just frame what we can expect for that level or for that bucket for 2013.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: You're saying expenses, not including LAS and the litigation?

MATT O'CONNOR: Exactly. The $13.3 billion that you pointed to in the fourth quarter.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think as you look at that number, and if we keep LAS out of this, obviously, the big new savings bucket that we have is New BAC. We have indicated that we are, on a quarterly basis, at $900 million a quarter as we leave 2012. We expect that our New BAC cost savings when we get to the fourth quarter of '13 will be at $1.5 billion per quarter. So you can expect to see, on a core basis with New BAC, about a $600 million increase from where we leave 2012 to where we leave 2013.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. So as we think about that $13.3 billion, I guess we could take out $600 million for New BAC, but was there other bulk or how much I guess of the seasonal stuff is there that maybe we should adjust for?

BRUCE THOMPSON: The seasonal stuff, if you are going Q4 to Q4, you would expect the seasonal stuff to be there, but, as we indicated, we looked at and for this quarter relative to the third quarter, there was $300 million to $400 million of stuff that we would characterize as seasonal.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just in terms of like underlying, call it, inflation or just normal investments, if we take that $13.3 billion 4Q to 4Q, would you expect that to be down, so you have kind of minus $600 million from additional BAC savings and there is always some offsets from inflation or investments? Do you think that net number will be down?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We would expect -- and the one thing that we are being very cognizant of is that while we are investing in the business, we are not going to let inflation outrun the progress that we are working on New BAC. So I think on a net basis thinking about that $600 million number from New BAC is a good assumption.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately, if we look at the FICC revenue, a little bit weaker than maybe we have seen so far; although it is still early in the earnings process here. And I guess I noticed that the asset level in the trading book went up, the VAR doubles quarter-to-quarter and just wondering if there was anything unusual in terms of positioning that you would point to.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. I think it is important when you look at the FICC business to go back and look at the progress that we have made during 2012. If you look at FICC revenues 2012 compared to 2011 pre-DVA, they were up 36% year-over-year. If you go back and look at each of our quarterly releases in 2012, in each quarter in 2012 pre-DVA, revenues were higher than 2011 at the same time that we were taking cost out.

The third thing I would say is that you have to realize that we run the FICC and overall debt underwriting business and look at that as one consolidated business and from a debt underwriting perspective at over $1 billion of revenue, we believe that was, as I indicated earlier, more than anyone else did this quarter on a global basis. And so we feel very good about that. Your point on the VAR is a fair one and we did see VAR increase during the fourth quarter and we would expect to see the benefits of that VAR flow through during the first quarter this year.

MATT O'CONNOR: Sorry, benefits meaning higher revenue?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, all right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, Bruce, does the goal of reducing the delinquents in LAS, the 150,000, does that include additional planned MSR sales that you might have in mind?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It does not, John, because I think the one thing when we announced these sales that you have to realize is that it is very important that the transition of the loans that are being sold work through a process and go in a way that is as consumer-friendly as we can do it. So there is a lot of work that goes through that. So as we look at the servicing business, that does not include in any meaningful way incremental sales. There may be some small ones over and above that and at the same time, somebody could come and look to do something as well, but, at this point, I would consider that 150,000 to be more organic reduction.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And what kind of pace throughout the year would you expect for reducing that $3.1 billion LAS expense by your goal of $1 billion by the fourth quarter? Kind of steady throughout the year or is it lumpy?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I would assume that you should generally expect it to come out throughout the year. It is not something you're going to have to wait for the fourth quarter to see.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then getting to Matt's question earlier, if we -- just a lot of moving parts on your expenses. If we look top of the house, trying to think about a jumping-off point for total BAC expenses that you start in the first quarter, it seems like you might be in the $17 billion ballpark with the stock option expense. Does that feel like the right area?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I am hesitant, John, to give you specific numbers in the quarter. What I would say is that we gave you guidance as to how much of the fourth quarter was seasonal that we obviously wouldn't expect in the first quarter. You have got the $900 million of stock compensation expense that will come through. Expect to see a little bit of benefit in the first quarter as we continue to implement New BAC and probably the biggest variable that you can see in the first quarter that I didn't mention is really compensation expense that varies based on actual business performance. But I think if you think and look at those different metrics, you will get pretty close.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And with the Fannie settlement this quarter, how should we think about the rep and warrant provisioning going forward here? Will you need to add on a quarterly basis to the rep and warrant provision?

BRUCE THOMPSON: If you look back over the course of 2012, absent any settlements or any unusual activity, you had a run rate throughout the quarter of around $300 million per quarter in 2012. And with the Fannie settlements, as well as obviously the fact that Freddie was settled at Countrywide, you would expect that number to be $150 million or so going forward.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then one last thing on NII. Was that a pretty clean number? Was there any impact from hedging or premium amortization in the NII number this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: There was a less than $100 million to the negative.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And your guidance of the kind of $10.5 billion is the run rate you think for the next couple quarters and that is excluding any of that, right?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Excluding any of that and realize that we have got a couple less days in the first quarter of this year.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Thank you very much. Hey, guys, on your guidance for NII, which was really good, you talked about a steady -- I mean you can maintain that net interest margin at current levels. What about average earning assets? Do you think you can maintain your average earning assets at these levels or grow them?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well, I think the average earning asset levels are probably at a level that you are not going to see an enormous amount of growth. What we do hope that happens though is that the composition of those earning assets change so that we can look at, and particularly in the institutional business as I mentioned, as well as in GWIM, there was very strong loan growth during the fourth quarter. We are focused on continuing to drive that forward and that obviously reduces the need to invest in securities and other things, and we think ultimately has a positive impact on NII and is also quite frankly consistent with managing OCI risk going forward.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. And then I have to ask one mortgage question. I asked the same question in the third quarter, but I think, Brian, you have been out in a lot of interviews talking about how much you like mortgage banking. But you still really are just going to be focused on retail. Am I correct? And on retail, are you focusing just on your own customers or will you be focusing on customers outside of your deposit mix or your customer base?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, Paul, focusing on the customers and our customer base is not real restrictive since you are one and two households, so there is plenty of marketshare to go. Our penetration of the product in our Preferred segment and our Wealth Management segment is still relatively low, so there is tremendous growth.

But as you think about shaping the mortgage business, we are kind of -- this quarter kind of moves us -- starts moving [announcements] as we close these servicing sales to where we end up with maybe 5 million serviced loans going forward producing $20 billion and growing a quarter direct to retail. And that is kind of what we want with a marketshare that steadily grows and that is kind of the equilibrium and the team has to go.

So the next challenge ahead is obviously replacing the HARP volumes over the next year. This year, we had to replace the correspondent volumes. Next year, we have to replace the HARP volumes and the team is working diligently on that, but it is really focused on the core customers. And if you think about the cost of servicing mortgages and stuff, we need to really focus on people that we are very comfortable with the credit and keep the delinquencies down and stay away from the stray products and just chase some volume.

PAUL MILLER: Guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Nomura.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Good morning. First one is a question on risk-weighted assets. On one of your slides, you show Basel 1 assets going actually up a little in the quarter, Basel 3 coming down. It is all in the net change in credit and other risk-weighted assets. And I am just curious what do you see on the credit side that drives that model enhancement? And the reason why I ask is it makes sense. Intuitively, it is just different to the tune of half, the Basel 1 to Basel 3 jump. It is different versus all the other big banks.

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's a good question, Glenn. When you look at -- and let's just first spend a minute on Basel 1. As I think you know that the majority of regular way loans in Basel 1 are 100% risk-weighted so that as you look at our $10 million increase in risk-weighted assets under Basel 1, it is generally speaking the net increase in our loan book.

If you go to Basel 3, and I think you are referring to slide 9 where we talk about the different reductions, why don't I spend a moment on each of the buckets? The first is that we referenced that we had about $23 billion less through consumer real estate exposures and the way that Basel 3 works is that, as opposed to these general risk-weighted buckets, they look at loan-to-value, delinquency and other type metrics. So during the quarter, the $23 billion benefit we saw, we saw declines in the loan-to-value within our residential mortgage book. The percentage of loans that were 90 plus day delinquencies, each of those went down, which I think in large part is reflective of the changes in the underwriting standards that we have talked about before that we implemented in the fourth quarter of '08 and the first quarter of '09.

The second thing is if you look at our home equity book, the delinquencies, as well as the loan-to-value continue to improve there, as well as the notional amount outstanding has also gone down. So we benefit there as well.

And then the third bucket within consumer real estate are our other retail exposures, which generally represent the runoff portfolio that we have talked about, that decreased during the quarter as well. So those three different buckets within the consumer exposure are what drove the $23 billion decline there.

If you move to the $64 billion number that we referenced largely in market risk, really go through a couple different areas where we have benefits. The first is we did have a pretty significant decline on a net basis of CVA, stressed VAR, as well as our CRM risk-weighted assets during the quarter. Over and above that, you know that some of the securitization products have very high risk-weighted asset content. We were able to fairly significantly decrease some of those securitization exposures. And during the quarter, the industry also got some guidance from a regulatory perspective on risk-weighted assets with certain securitization products that was favorable, so that helped.

And then the last piece that we had is that there were some indexed tranches and other things within the markets business, which came down pretty significantly as well. So those were really the big items in the $64 billion bucket.

And then with respect to the $23 billion bucket, I want to spend just a moment on that because the $23 billion reduction is not a function of going in and changing models. The $23 billion is that, each year when you update your models for actual loss experience, it drives changes in risk-weighted assets and given the strength and improvement across the credit portfolios in 2012, we have benefited from that when the models were updated.

As you look forward, I would just say, looking forward, I think we are generally in a place now where we told you a couple quarters ago the optimization on Basel 1 was largely done and the risk-weighted assets would vary pretty proportionally with the amount of loans. From a pure risk-weighted asset perspective, I think we are largely through those reductions. But keep in mind, from a numerator or common perspective going forward, we will benefit given our deferred tax position in that the pretax number will generally grow capital on a pretax basis and we still do have some threshold deductions we can work down there.

GLENN SCHORR: That is super helpful. I think you just said it, but I just want to confirm. This happens on an annual basis. In other words, whether the balances come down on paydown, run-off, charge-off, whatever or credit improves, the models get updated on an annual basis and there is no permission process. In other words, this just happens in real-time?

BRUCE THOMPSON: There is not a permission aspect to it; it is required that we update these on an annual basis, so that is correct.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, really appreciate it.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Hey, Glenn, the balances move every quarter. I think it is the models -- the factors that change on risk.

GLENN SCHORR: Yes, that is super helpful. I appreciate all of that. Inside the average balance sheet, the securities yields went up 11 basis points in the quarter. Most banks are trending lower as things run off. This is part of your defending the NIM, so I get it. Just curious, is it just expanding a little bit on the duration curve? Just curious what you are doing on the asset side to help support those yields.

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, it is not extending duration. If you look at our securities portfolio, we continue to run that duration in and around two years. What you have to keep in mind is that we had -- during the third quarter, you had some of the FAS 91 amortization expense. That flows through and hits the yield on the securities portfolio, so we did not see a significant change in the actual yields during the quarter; it was really more FAS 91.

And I think, as you look at our Company going forward, I think we are a little bit different in that between the fact that the duration of what we have continues to be short, as we look forward, we clearly think the worst of the recouponing of the securities portfolio is behind us based on where rates are today.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, thanks, Bruce. I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, guys. With the capital ratios up significantly and credit quality getting better, the mortgage repurchase risk getting resolved over time, could you give us any thoughts in terms of how you are thinking about capital return for 2013? We have had a number of the other big banks -- JPMorgan, Wells, USB -- at least give us some insight in terms of how they are thinking about capital return for this year going into the CCAR and wondered if you would be willing to do the same? Thanks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think I'd say, Ed, that we completed our results; we are in a better position this year than last year and we will let you know once we get through the test. I think it is -- the Fed is doing its work, but I think we have been clear with people that the issue for us is not necessarily capital levels, balance sheet cleanup and stuff. The issue is the recurring earnings levels that have been consistent on that and we will let you know once we get there. But Bruce and the team have done a great job on submitting it and we will see what happens.

ED NAJARIAN: Well, I mean you are already above the capital ratios that you need to be at, at least according to FSB guidelines. Now that you are generating -- continue to generate excess capital, is that something that you think you would like to return to shareholders over time or is that something that needs to be retained in the near term for safety and soundness reasons or till you get more litigation resolved? Or any thoughts in terms of the excess, above and beyond where you have indicated you sort of intend to run the Company?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you look at what we did in 2012, we took capital and redeemed preferred instruments and subordinated debt and other things and continuing to do that during the year. We were getting approvals to do so as we went along. So all the -- we have been clear that all the capital we have, now that we are above the levels, we will be in a position when we get the approvals to return to the shareholders. And you know the viewpoints of the relative preferences of the CCAR process in terms of dividends versus stock buybacks and things like that. So we would be no different than anybody else.

But it is clear; it is either on the balance sheet, tangible book value. It is not needed for the risk of the balance sheet because you can see that with all the risk-weighting and everything, the capital is there and it will all get returned as part of the business proposition. If we retain any to grow, that is actually a good problem, but, so far, we still have optimization left on the balance sheet, as Bruce described, that will allow us to continue to return capital. So our intention is to return it. The question is we have got to get through the processes and then we will do it.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks. And then I guess my second question is just fairly technical. But when I look at what you have outlined in terms of reserve recapture, it looks like about $900 million in terms of loan-loss reserve, a $2.2 billion provision and $3.1 billion of charge-offs. But it looks like the loan-loss reserve itself dropped by about $2 billion from the third quarter. Can you reconcile that for me?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, the reason it dropped by that amount is that, and you saw it in the third, as well as the fourth quarter, that with some of the DOJ/AG settlement modification and other things, that as you dispose, get repaid or write off the purchased credit-impaired portfolio, it reduces your loan-loss reserve.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And then that is not coming through the charge-off line?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. So a quick one following up actually on one of Ed's questions. And it is related to your capital levels and the SIFI buffer. Is there any view from your guys' perspective that you will intend to run with a buffer above the required 8.5% because many of your money center competitors are going to be running at the 9.5% level. So maybe either for funding market reasons or potentially competitive reasons, is it in your mindset or strategic vision that you might run a bit above that 8.5% level or is that the wrong way to think about it?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would make a couple observations on that. The first is that, at 9.25% today, regardless of required SIFI buffers, we have more on the Basel 3 basis than anyone else.

The second thing I would say is given the position that we are in and the fact that we do have DTAs going forward, the rate at which we increase capital given it is on a pretax basis, we would expect to be more significant than our peers.

So I think going forward, we still think we have the opportunity as core earnings rebound to grow capital more quickly than our peers. As it relates to the exact level, we have always looked at it and thought that you want to run at least an extra 50 basis point cushion. Given that these ratios are more sensitive to changes in the market, depending on what the market looks like at the time your ratio is, you may vary that a little bit based on the market.

But I would say generally if we look at what we saw in the third quarter and what we saw today that we are generally in the range of where you would expect us to run and as we look out at and see how our counterparties from a credit perspective view the Company now and look at our credit spreads, we feel like we are doing the right things right now.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, that's fair. And then thinking about maybe the fact that you guys might be in the market to sell another chunk of MSRs or at least you hear about that through speculation from various sources. Is the idea behind that, we are at a point where that is not really a capital issue for you all anymore, right, because you are below the threshold from that perspective. So is it more about getting an opportunity to further eliminate and push down these legacy costs or is it that you just strategically don't view the business as very attractive and you just want to be out of it altogether? Can you help maybe give some color around that thought process?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So if you go back and look what we did in the beginning of '11 when we split, we split our portfolio into two thought processes, our mortgage servicing portfolio. We split a chunk into what we called the Home Loans at that point and a chunk into what we called LAS and it was about, round numbers, $11 million, $12 million in loans at that time. Half went to LAS and half went to Home Loans. And the criteria which we looked at that was customers, products and loans and stuff that were going to be a go-forward business we think of in the Home Loans business. And the other half was products that were never going to be done again and the way we are going to run the business because frankly you lose a lot of money on them due to the delinquency levels and customer strife, etc.

So since that time, we have, and if you go back and look, we showed that exact break. Since that time, we have been busily trying to work the $6 million non-core loan book portfolio down. And we got it down around $2.5 million-ish now and with the sales, $2 million, not all of it comes out of that because of combined pools and stuff, but a significant amount, we are really accelerating the ability to get to the end state on the bad mortgage servicing book for lack of a better term. And that is what we are up to.

We had gotten it to a level from a capital level and all that stuff we were comfortable with and so once we get this out, these are products that we just aren't going to continue with and we have been focusing on rebuilding the business into the core business as I spoke about earlier.

So if you think about it in that context, think about something that might have taken us all the way into '15 to finish up and think about through the sales of a significant part of the $2.5 million how much -- the question is we are bringing that into '13 and early '14 as we finish up, which then accelerates our reposition of our Company away from products and services, which we didn't plan to continue two years ago.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Cool. Thanks for that. And then last one, the $1 billion decline in mortgage costs, the legacy costs you guys provided from the $3.1 billion to the $2.1 billion by 4Q, just kind of curious about the starting point there. The $3.1 billion, I thought that included $0.3 billion of compensatory fees from this Fannie deal. So why is that the starting point rather than like $2.7 billion? Is there something in that $0.3 billion that is recurring or what is the deal there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, the number was slightly less than $300 million, rounded to that number, but, in any one quarter in that business, you have some pluses and some minuses that are flowing through. So you are right. The $1 billion though is starting from a $3.1 billion base.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Let's be clear here. We are still working through -- we have signed the sales transaction January 7, working through with the buyers the timing of the movement of the assets and finalizing that, then how fast you can move. There is transition issues that you have got to deal with in terms of people who are in the middle of the modification process and stuff.

But let me flip to the other thing. This quarter, the total resources you saw on the one slide dedicated to LAS went down by 9,000 between FTEs and contractors dedicated to this team. We will continue to drive that down. There is nothing more important to our Company to get this done as quickly as possible.

So Bruce has given you the outline and whether it is from this call item or that item, the idea is that we need to get the work out of here and that is what actually is taking the cost and the sales closing, the continued progress on the remaining piece that we have left, but think about, in a single quarter, 9,000 change in headcount and think about -- we are going as fast as we can.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Yes, well, clearly, it has been really tough to try to forecast how this would run down and you guys are clearly not alone in having challenges. Everybody in the industry I think has been struggling with that. So just was kind of curious whether or not there was something in there. Better to understand it. Thanks for giving the color.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. A couple of other questions on mortgage. One is around the Fannie settlement. So now you will be originating through Fannie as you used to, regular way mortgages for the Home Loan section. I am wondering how fast you think you can get your marketshare back up as a result of that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Our marketshare overall, when you put the whole thing together, I think has gone up about 2/10 of 1% per quarter as best I have. And remember, we are only competing in the direct-to-consumer part of the market. So I think it has moved from 4.2% to 4.4% to 4.6% type of numbers. And so expect us to keep driving our marketshare up. Now, again, we got the HARP volumes, which is in the $21 billion this quarter, $7 billion to $8 billion type of number, think of that, that we have got to replace. And so that is the team's challenge.

And on the other hand, we are not closing loans as quickly as we should honestly. And we have been adding significant resources as we have downsized LAS into the home loans business to increase our fulfillment capacity. So you put all that together, our marketshare continues to grow every quarter for the last three or four. We will continue to drive it.

Where it will settle in at, I am not exactly sure, but as I talked about earlier, if you think about us having about a -- think of an 8% share of servicing, we have got to get our origination share moving towards that direction over the next couple years in order to have sort of equilibrium for lack of a better term.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. It is just that when you stopped originating through Fannie, the share came down rather sharply in a short period of time. So I was just wondering if, with higher throughput, you might be able to do more there.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Look, the issue isn't liquidity in the market, but the kinds of loans going through. The issue was -- they happen to correspond to each other, but it really had nothing to do with each other. The issue is we stopped the correspondent business.

BETSY GRASECK: Right.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you thought about our marketshare when it was at its strongest in the high teens, two-thirds of it or more were correspondents. And that is what dropped our share down. The retail marketshare is actually -- from this year, direct-to-retail, excluding even HARP, it is flat year-over-year in terms of production and fell a little bit and has grown every quarter.

So we are selling to Freddie and we will work it out with Fannie over time, but the point I am really saying is it is not the secondary market liquidity that caused our markets to drop; it was getting out of the correspondent business. And if you just look in this quarter, remember that there was $6.5 billion last year fourth quarter versus this year fourth quarter that was in the correspondent that is a carryover from when we quit it in the third quarter at the same time we announced that we were going to stop with Fannie.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. Okay. And then lastly on Home Loans, should we expect -- are you anticipating more reinvestment in the Home Loans group to drive that faster throughput or do you think you are at the investment spend that you want to make in that business?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If the volumes are there, we will continue to invest in the servicing fulfillment teams. We've moved -- Tony Meola has done a great job and Ron Sturzenegger in that business working through LAS has now taken over sort of the good side of production, along with a fellow named Steve Boland, Dean Athanasia in the Retail and the Preferred group under David Darnell drives the production side. We have added mortgage loan officers every single quarter, focused them on the branches and what we are seeing is tremendous uptake when we get them working with our teammates. We are better when we are connected as a company across things and so we have seen it.

So we are investing both on the front end and on the service and fulfillment, the middle office so to speak and we have moved I think 4,000 people increase this year so far in fulfillment and we will move some -- we will continue to move them because ultimately the retail production side is a good business right now.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. First question, on the credit card business, Brian, could you just give us some color about what is going on right there? I mean your numbers are not robust and I am wondering -- I know you have lost share there. What is being invested into that business?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, so if we think about it starting in 2009, we started to reposition that business because it had gotten too far into the broader credit. And after the crisis, just remember, we charged off $60 billion, $70 billion of charge-offs in that business. So we started repositioning it. We have got it about now where we want it. In other words, we have an affinity group of businesses that is very core and we like it a lot and we have the core business. So this quarter, I think we did 840,000 new cards, about 350,000 or more or less through the franchise, another 100,000 some I think online. So we are producing what we need to do.

Balances grew, point to point, you've got to be careful of the fourth quarter. You get a little kick around Christmas obviously, but if you look at it, as we look across the last few quarters and we will have to wait until everybody gets out this quarter, we are holding around 14%-ish marketshare, which is fine. So now the question is we push a little bit harder on the -- and I use the broad context marketing, not direct mail market, but marketing and driving to the franchise.

So what we have done is position the credit quality well. It is a much more of a payment business now, 19% plus pay rate, which basically up from 14% probably six, eight quarters ago and so it is a higher quality business. It has drilled the core customer base, the 1-2-3 card and the rewards cards we have that drill off the core platform are working well in our Retail segments and then obviously in the Wealth Management segments, we have a great array of products.

So I would say that we have got this where we want it now; it is stabilized. The run-off book that we are fighting on a growth basis is down to $3 billion, $3.5 billion, down from $15 billion at the top. So I think they should start to see some growth. But it will take -- it is going to bump around where it is right now for a few quarters, but I would say that there is nothing wrong in the business and we are making a fair amount of money in it right now. The risk-adjusted margin is the highest it has ever been.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Secondly, Bruce, if you could just speak to the comp ratios in the Investment Bank and how you guys are trying to position yourself relative to your competition?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I mean I think generally we are in that 40% area from a compensation perspective and obviously, given the performance and where we are, we need to be competitive with where the peers are. But I don't think you have really seen that change materially during the course of 2012.

NANCY BUSH: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, first just a follow-up. The FAS 91 amortization expense, what would have been the change in the securities yield and the margin if not for that looking third quarter to fourth quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We will have to get back to you with that exact number. I think I have a gut, but I want to make sure I am right. So why don't we get back to you with that number.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Do you just know generally I mean because you margin was up; that is good, and the securities yield is up 11 basis points, but do you think it would have been down if not for that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I want to think, Mike, it was somewhere between 9 and 11 basis points. I just don't have the exact number.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, that's fine. And then going to the mortgage putbacks, so the Fannie settlement, you got that done. It sounds like you are feeling better about the rep and warranty expense. I think I heard you say it might go from $300 million to $150 million per quarter. So I sense you are feeling better.

I'm trying to reconcile that with what is taking place with the MBIA versus Countrywide court moves and correct my thinking if anything is wrong here, but I think it is an issue of Bank America success or liability or is Bank America responsible for Countrywide? And as of January 9 and 10, the oral arguments were completed, so I understand it is in the hands of Judge Bransten, the New York State Supreme Court and the motion says that Bank America is responsible for Countrywide and if so, I guess that could put the $8.5 billion private-label settlement at risk. So my question is could that $8.5 billion settlement be at risk? Do I understand what is happening in the court correctly? And what happens if the $8.5 billion private-label settlement does not go through?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think a couple things on that, Mike. First, I think from our perspective, the $8.5 billion Gibbs & Brun settlement is going through the court process. Would likely get wrapped up sometime in the second quarter or early in the third quarter. And that is completely independent from what is going on at MBIA.

With respect to MBIA in the broader monolines, as we have said before, generally, if you look at geography within the financial statements, the majority of the work that we do and where the monolines are accrued for at this point is within the litigation line item as opposed to within our provision for reps and warranties.

And the third thing I would say is that, as it relates to kind of the general rep and warrant question, I think the most important thing to go back to is that the large majority of everything that was done with the GSEs at this point between our global settlement with Freddie and Countrywide and our global settlement with both Countrywide and Bank of America with the GSEs just takes away a significant amount of risk relative to where we have been before.

MIKE MAYO: So we are really just talking private label at this point?

BRUCE THOMPSON: As I referenced, you have got the several monolines that we are working through on a litigation perspective and then you are right, you have got the private-label piece. And I think if you go back to the comments that we made about the geography of the representations and warranties, you can see we have a pretty sizable amount set aside to work through the private-label exposures.

MIKE MAYO: So what is the significance of the decision by Judge Bransten and the New York State Supreme Court? There was a Wall Street Journal article on January 11, some other chatter saying that if this motion goes against you and you are deemed responsible for the legal liabilities of Countrywide then that could be a negative event for you. Do you agree with that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Mike, we could -- I think as we think about it, this litigation goes back and forth and the judge has a lot of decisions to make in a lot of cases and we will play it out here. But we are comfortable with our legal positions across the board.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, but for that, we should, you think we will hear next month as opposed to midyear?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I am not sure the exact timing.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Just last question on that because I am just trying to -- how do we get our arms around that risk? That is really my question and so if you wanted to just give advice to somebody -- okay, here is the potential hit if things go wrong, what would be your answer to that or just is there no answer?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think what I would suggest you do, and I am not going to quote somebody else's financial statements, but I think you can go look on MBIA's financial statements and see how much that they believe that we're owed or that they are owed from us. That is disclosed in their financial statements, so you can look at that. And then the corollary is I think you have to keep in mind that there is a significant amount of money that they owe us within our Global Markets business that is very significant that we have marked at cents on the dollar.

MIKE MAYO: Great. All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Autonomous Research.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Good morning. You guys have done a great job countering the net interest margin pressure obviously with managing your long-term debt down. And maybe it is too early to think about this, but obviously under orderly liquidation authority in Dodd-Frank, there is some provision for bail-in debt and I was wondering how you guys are thinking about that and how you might implement it over time.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think the biggest thing that you have to go back to is that, and you have seen the different reports, that it is that people are looking at these amounts based on not only the amount of debt, but also the amount of equity that you have on the balance sheet. So if you go and look at our ratios, we obviously, as far as the amount of pure common equity and other equity-related instruments on the balance sheet now are more than virtually all of our peers and because of the way -- through the series of mergers that happened, our debt footprint on an absolute basis, as well on a relative basis is higher than our peers.

So as we look at this and as we talk about going forward, I think we still have a lot of work to do and opportunity to get our interest expense down through shrinking the size of the debt footprint and just bringing it down to where the rest of the industry is. So we can't predict with certainty where this goes, but we know as we look at the different ratios and the different metrics, we still have some opportunity to continue to benefit the interest expense line just to get to where our peers are from an overall debt and equity perspective.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, that's fair. Just one last question regarding expenses. Obviously, you have stuck with your guidance on the New BAC and you told us where you are along the path of getting to those goals and you have updated us on the LAS expense reduction initiatives as well, but you are also talking about reinvesting and specifically around mortgage origination, but I think more broadly as well because obviously you don't want to ignore revenue growth opportunities. How do we reconcile those things and how much reinvestment at this point should we expect to see of the New BAC $8 billion and of the LAS $10 billion?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: On the LAS, I don't think you would see it. In the New BAC is net of the cost of achieving the results, which is largely technology implementation costs and if you look at our technology development costs over the last few years, we have gone from about $2 billion and change to $3.6 billion per year. And the investments we are making in New BAC are investments in the franchise. In other words, to get the efficiencies, we are -- embedded in there is the rework of our entire trading platform systems and things like that. But we are investing to get the savings, but investing to also strengthen the franchise at the same time. So it is all netted in there.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, so you would encourage analysts to continue to bring those entire amounts to the bottom line by 2015?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, that's great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And this concludes our Q&A. I will go back to our presenters for any closing remarks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you for your time and attention. Look forward to next quarter.

OPERATOR: This will conclude today's program. Have a great day. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130131e91h001me
  


 HD
 Q3  2012  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
16,269 words
   PD
17 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to today's third-quarter earnings review program. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). Please note today's call is being recorded.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

KEVIN STITT, IR DIRECTOR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian and Bruce begin their comments, I'd like to remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. And with that, let me turn it over to Bruce.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. I'm going to start the presentation on slide four, and as I'm sure you've all seen, for the third quarter of 2012, we reported net revenue of $20.6 billion. Importantly, that number was reduced by about $1.9 billion for FVO and DVA, and if we adjust for that, you get to a revenue net of interest expense of $22.5 billion for the quarter.

Net income was $340 million or $0.00 a share after preferred dividends. The results reflect the previously announced charges in late September that relate to $1.9 billion for the combination of FVO adjustments as well as DVA resulting from the significant tightening that we saw in our credit spreads during the quarter.

In addition, we had $1.6 billion pretax of total litigation expense, including the charge for the Merrill Lynch class-action settlement.

Lastly, we had about $800 million of tax expense related to the reduction in the UK tax rate.

In the aggregate, these items negatively impacted EPS by approximately $0.28.

If we turn to slide five, the results in the third quarter demonstrated ongoing momentum on several fronts. Period-end deposits across the Company grew $28 billion or 2.7% versus the second quarter, which is an 11% annualized rate, and we accomplished that as the rates on our deposits declined slightly from 20 basis points to 18 basis points.

The net interest yield increased by 11 basis points as our liability management actions continued to benefit net interest income.

Our mortgage business, Home Loans, had its most profitable quarter, excluding asset sales, since we started reporting its results separately, with first lien production up by 13%.

Wealth & Investment Management showed growth in long-term assets under management, deposits and record loan levels, while maintaining solid margins. Ending loans in our Global Banking segment increased 2.5% from the second quarter or 10% on an annualized basis. Results in the capital markets area reflected strong performances both on a quarter-over-quarter as well as a year-ago basis.

We continue to invest in growth areas of our Company, such as mortgage lending, small-business banking and financial advisors. Our 60-plus-day delinquent loans serviced out in our legacy servicing business declined 12% from second-quarter levels, and we will spend some time later in the presentation talking about what that means going forward.

Our number of full-time equivalent employees declined approximately 3000 from the end of the second quarter related to our different -- new BAC initiatives.

If you turn to slide six, a lot of information on the balance sheet highlight area. I just want to draw your attention to three of the line items. The first, our tangible common equity ratio improved by 12 basis points to 6.95%. If you move down to tangible book value, it grew by $0.26 in the quarter up to $13.48. And if you look at our adjusted loan coverage, where we look at the allowance for loans over annualized charge-offs, it improved during the quarter to 2.2 times.

If you turn to slide seven, as we've seen all year, regulatory capital continued to strengthen. Our Basel 1 Tier 1 common capital ratio was up 17 basis points to 11.41%. Remember, FVO and the tax charge do not impact regulatory capital.

As we near the 2013 implementation period for Basel III, we've estimated our Tier 1 common equity ratio and its components to provide a better understanding of where we are relative to the expected 2019 Basel III requirements. Our estimate is per the final US market risk rules in the US Basel III NPRs.

As of the end of the third quarter on a fully phased-in basis, we estimate that that Basel III Tier 1 capital ratio would have been 8.97%. Recall last quarter, we estimated Basel III under BIS Basel III guidelines to be approximately 8.1%, and 7.95% applying the US Basel III NPRs.

If we look at the components of the ratio, our Tier 1 common equity was $134.6 billion, while our risk-weighted assets would have been $1.501 trillion.

A couple points I'd like to make before we leave this slide. If we look at the improvement in the numerator of roughly $8 billion, we did benefit during the quarter, given the reduction that we saw in the rate environment, where OCI, which goes through the balance sheet not the income statement, was up about $3.2 billion and contributed 21 basis points to that ratio.

We also benefited on the denominator in a portion of the increase due to the tightening credit spreads that we saw across the market that did benefit the denominator.

If we turn to slide eight and look at liquidity, Global Excess Liquidity Sources increased modestly from $378 billion to $380 billion during the quarter. That was accomplished while we reduced the long-term debt footprint across the entire enterprise by about $15 billion.

A couple actions of note during the third quarter. We had $6.2 billion of liability management actions, which consisted primarily of parent redemptions of trust preferred securities, as well as sub-debt. And in addition to that, we had $12 billion of maturities that were repaid at the parent.

We took an additional action during the first quarter of October of calling $5.1 billion of additional trust preferred securities that will benefit NII by about $50 million in the fourth quarter of this year, and on a go-forward basis, about $300 million. As we noted before, there will be a loss upon the redemption that we will take in the fourth quarter of about $100 million.

If we focus on the parent company for just a moment, parent company remained very strong at $102 billion. And if you look at the reduction in liquidity compared to the reduction in the debt footprint, liquidity at the parent declined by $9 billion when the overall debt footprint at the parent shrank by $18 billion as we continued to move money from our bank subsidiaries up to the parent.

Time to required funding at the end of the quarter was at 35 months. And as we move forward and continue to shrink the debt footprint and smooth out the maturity profile, we expect over the next six to eight quarters that you will see that time to required funding migrate down to a targeted range in the 21 to 24 month timeframe.

On slide nine, if we look at net interest income, net interest income on a reported basis increased from $9.8 billion or a yield of 2.21% in the second quarter to $10.2 billion or 2.32% during the third quarter. If we adjust those numbers for market-related hedging effectiveness, as well as market-related premium amortization, or FAS 91, our net interest income increased from $10.3 billion or 2.32% up to $10.5 billion or 2.39% during the quarter.

If we look at the activity within the quarter, we benefited during the quarter from the reduction in long-term debt driven by both our liability management actions as well as debt repayment. In addition, our trading-related net interest income improved during the quarter.

Partially offsetting these improvements were lower consumer loan balances and yields, as well as lower investment security yields.

Near term, if we look at where we are at the end of the third quarter and given existing rate levels, we estimate that quarterly net interest income will start at a base of approximately $10.5 billion. The impact of our liability management actions and our long-term debt maturities are expected to offset any headwinds that we see from continued pressure on both consumer loan balances, as well as investment security portfolio repricing.

In general, as you consider the rate environment, if rates increase from the end of September, we would look to see benefits in our net interest income. And on the other side, to the extent that rates decline, you could see reductions.

On slide 10, if we get into the businesses, in Consumer & Business Banking, earnings were $1.3 billion during the quarter, an increase of $130 million from the second quarter, driven by lower noninterest expense and provision, which were partially offset by lower revenue. Non-interest income decreased from the second quarter due mainly to the impact of our consumer protection products. Credit quality improved again as net charge-offs dropped $170 million. Average deposits increased almost $4 billion or 1% from the second quarter.

On slide 11, we give you some key indicators for our Consumer & Business Banking area for the quarter. Compared to the second quarter, debit card purchase volumes declined seasonally, while credit card purchase volumes adjusted for our portfolio divestitures were relatively flat.

Retail credit spend per active account was up 6% from the third quarter of 2011. If we look at the US credit card loss rate, it is the lowest that we've seen since the third quarter of 2006, while the 30-plus-day delinquency rate is at a historic low.

Banking Centers declined as we continue to optimize the delivery network around customer behaviors. We did continue to increase our mobile banking customer base to more than 11 million people, which is an 8% increase from the prior quarter and up 30% from the year-ago quarter.

If we turn to slide 12, Consumer Real Estate Services reported a loss of $877 million during the quarter versus a loss of $766 million in the second quarter of this year. Higher revenue, which included MSR gains net of hedge results, the sale of a business and lower rep and warrant expense, were more than offset by higher expenses, as well as a higher provision. The provision for refs and warrants was $307 million in the quarter, a decrease from $395 million that we experienced in the second quarter.

Expenses were up $672 million. LAS drove expense increase due to higher litigation expense, servicing cost and other mortgage-related matters. Provision increased $75 million during the quarter, driven by the impact of new regulatory guidance on loans discharged in bankruptcy, which I will discuss when I get to credit quality later in this presentation. And it was partially offset by a recovery in the home-equity PCI portfolio due to an improvement in the home price outlook.

The Home Loans business, which is responsible for a first-lien and home-equity originations within this segment, recorded a profit of $264 million for the quarter. First mortgage retail originations of $20 billion were up 13% from the prior quarter due to lower rates and up 19% compared with retail originations a year ago. As you'll recall, we exited the correspondent business late last year, so current correspondent originations are non-existent versus volumes of approximately $16 billion a year ago. Even with the exit from the correspondent channel, core production income is higher than a year ago.

Our MSR asset decreased by $621 million during the quarter, driven primarily by lower mortgage rates, and ended the quarter at $5.1 billion. MSR hedge results more than offset market valuation decline. And if we look at the cap rate on the MSR at the end of the period, it was at 45 basis points versus 47 basis points in the second quarter and 52 basis points a year ago.

On slide 13, we showed some comparisons of certain metrics in our legacy asset and servicing area on a linked-quarter basis, as well as compared to a year ago, as we continue to work very hard to reduce delinquent loans and find solutions for homeowners.

As you recall, the legacy assets and servicing area reflects all of our servicing operations and the results of our MSR activities. Our domestic FTEs, excluding contractors, decreased for the first time in this area in 14 quarters. The number of first liens serviced dropped 6% in the quarter; but more importantly, the number of 60-plus-day delinquent loans dropped by 12%. The drop in 60-day-plus delinquencies will have a positive impact on our staffing levels in the fourth quarter and beyond as servicing costs going forward should benefit, given that we were fully staffed in the third quarter to handle the various new programs and regulations. And as we've discussed previously, we will continue hard both working through these delinquent loans internally, as well as looking externally for solutions to reduce this number of delinquent loans.

On slide 14, you can see that our outstanding rep and warrant claims increased by 12% from the end of June versus the 41% increase we experienced during the second quarter of this year. Outstanding claims from the GSEs did increase, albeit at a slower rate, as a result of ongoing disagreements with Fannie Mae about what constitutes a valid repurchase request.

Since June, given the settlement we discussed last quarter with Syncora, the backlog with Monolines has decreased. On the private-label side, we had a $1.9 billion increase in outstanding claims to a total of $10.5 billion at the end of the quarter. The increase on the private-label side is primarily due to claims received from trustees and securitization sponsors, but keep in mind, this increase in aggregate non-GSE claims was taken into consideration when we developed the increase in our reserves at the time of the Bank of New York settlement during the second quarter of last year. We would expect these claims to continue to grow as the process for ultimate resolution continues to evolve and remains somewhat unclear.

The other thing we'd ask you to keep in mind is this table reflects the unpaid principal amount of the loans, not the actual amount of losses that are incurred on the loans.

Our reserve for refs and warrant at the end of the quarter increased slightly to $16.3 billion.

In the second quarter, we provided a range of possible loss over and above existing reserve levels of up to $5 billion, which only applied to non-GSE loans. At the time, a range was not provided for GSE activity, as we were unable to estimate such a range. In the third quarter, as a result of ongoing dialogue and discussion with the GSEs, we have obtained additional information from which we are now able to determine a reasonable estimate of a range of possible loss in excess of our recorded reps and warrant liability for the GSEs.

We currently estimate that the range of possible loss for both the GSEs and the non-GSEs for rep and warrant exposures could be up to $6 billion over our accruals at September 30 and compared to the up to $5 billion over accruals at June 30, which once again were only for non-GSE reps and warrant exposures.

The increase in the range of possible loss from our June 30 period is the net impact of, among other changes, updated assumptions in the inclusion of GSE rep and warrant exposure, as well as other developments.

If we move to our Global Wealth & Investment Management area on slide 15, earnings for the quarter of $542 million or a pretax margin of approximately 20% were in line with the results that we saw in the second quarter. Period-end deposit growth of $6.4 billion and period-end loan growth of $2.1 billion helped offset the impact of the continued low rate environment.

Ending loan balances, as I mentioned earlier, were at record levels, and solid long-term AUM flows of $5.7 billion helped offset seasonal declines. This client activity, along with the strong overall market performance in the third quarter, should benefit our fourth-quarter results.

If we move to Global Banking on slide 16, we had net income in the third quarter of $1.3 billion, which reflected higher net interest income and a reduction in expenses that was offset by gains in the second quarter related to certain legacy asset dispositions which did not recur in the third quarter.

Period-end loans and leases increased $6.7 billion or 2.5% from the second quarter, with growth across C&I, Commercial Real Estate, Leasing, as well as some quarter-end fundings. Average deposit balances were up 5% from the second quarter to $252 billion as our corporate customers remain very liquid.

Asset quality continued to be very strong and continued the trend from prior quarters. Net charge-offs were down, NPAs dropped 20% to $2.6 billion, and our reservable utilized criticized exposure declined 17%.

On slide 17, Investment Banking fees, Investment Banking fees at $1.336 billion were up nicely over both the prior quarter, up 17%, as well as up 42% from the year-ago period. If we look at where we were relative to our competitors, we maintain a strong number two global ranking in fees to date. And as you can see below, we continue to have leading market shares globally in many of these businesses.

If we switch to Global Markets on slide 18, earnings were impacted by a DVA loss of approximately $580 million and the tax charge for changes in the UK corporate tax rate. If we back out the DVA and the charge for taxes, net income actually increased 41% from the second quarter to $789 million. Revenue ex DVA for the entire segment was up 5%; and once again, DVA losses in the quarter, $580 million; last quarter, losses were $156 million. And those compared to gains in the year-ago period to approximately $1.7 billion.

Sales and trading revenue ex DVA was down 3% from the second quarter, but improved substantially from year-ago levels. Within FICC, the core businesses of credit, mortgages and rates and currencies performed very well. Our FICC revenue ex DVA was essentially flat with the second quarter at $2.5 billion, delivering a solid performance.

In equities, excluding DVA, results decreased 8% from the second quarter as lower volatility and a continued lack of investor appetite for equity products depressed volumes.

On the expense side, expenses declined from both the second quarter and the prior year driven by lower personnel-related expense, as well as lower operational cost.

Average VaR for the quarter was $55 million, down 12% from the second quarter and 67% from the prior year. As we look at that, we continue to generate increasing levels of revenue for each dollar of risk that we take within this segment.

On slide 19, we show you the results of All Other, which includes our Global Principal Investments business, the non-US consumer card business, our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate risk management, insurance, as well as the discontinued real estate portfolio. The revenue decrease from the second quarter of this year was due to a negative valuation of adjustment of $1.3 billion on structured liabilities under FVO and lower gains on debt and trust preferred repurchases, partially offset by higher equity investment income during the quarter.

The increase in non-interest expense was due to higher litigation expense, and if we were to exclude that, non-interest expense declined compared to the second quarter.

On slide 20, non-interest expense, I'd like to make a couple comments here. Non-interest expense of $17.5 billion was down slightly from the third quarter of last year and up relative to the second quarter of this year. If we were to back out the increase in litigation expense that we incurred during the quarter, non-interest expense actually declined from Q2 to Q3.

If we look at the components of that, we saw improvements in personnel costs and other cost savings realized from our new BAC initiatives, and that was partially offset by higher cost of mortgage servicing and other mortgage-related matters, which, as I mentioned previously, we'd expect to see come down in the fourth quarter relative to the third.

We also invested in selected growth areas during the quarter, in our mortgage loan officers or small-business bankers and our financial solutions advisors.

If we move down and you look at the number of full-time equivalent employees, we started to implement phase one of new BAC in the fourth quarter of 2011. Outside of LAS, which is the gray bar, you can see since we began the implementation, we've reduced the FTEs across the Company, outside of legacy assets and servicing, by almost 21,000 people, or over 8% since we began that implementation. And as you can see, legacy assets and servicing FTEs increased, but have now stabilized. And as I said, we would expect to start seeing come down in the fourth quarter.

If we turn to slide 21, although provision was relatively flat with the second quarter, there were two events that impacted both the net charge-offs and nonperforming loans that you've heard others speak about. The first, regulators did provide new guidance to the industry in the third quarter of this year that stated loans discharged from the courts as part of a Chapter 7 bankruptcy should be written down to collateral value and classified as nonperforming, irrespective of the borrower's payment status. As a result, we charged off $478 million in loans and reduced reserves by $139 million, resulting in a provision increase of $339 million in the quarter as a result of this new guidance.

Nonperforming loans increased by $1.1 billion as a result of this change, and $954 million or 91% of these borrowers are current on their contractual payments. Of these contractually performing loans, more than 70% were discharged from bankruptcy more than 12 months ago and nearly 40% were discharged 24 months or more ago.

The other change -- recall in March, we and other large mortgage servicers agreed in a settlement with the DoJ and 49 state attorneys to provide programs to assist homeowners in modifying loans and other borrower assistant programs. We refer to that as the National Mortgage Settlement. As a result of these agreements, we incurred charge-offs in the third quarter of $435 million related to the extinguishment of non-purchase credit impaired loans in this home equity portfolio.

This $435 million had a corresponding decrease in nonperforming loans that we reported at the end of the third quarter. These loans were underwater and in the later stages of delinquency or were loans that were current on their junior lien, but severely delinquent on their underlying first.

Associated with the settlement, we also extinguished $1.7 billion of home equity loans in the PCI portfolio, resulting in a decline in both the portfolio, as well as the corresponding reserve. These items have no provision impact, as reserves for these loans were already established.

If we turn to slide 22, we've laid out here the third quarter of last year, second quarter of this year and third quarter, and then adjusted the numbers on the far right column for this change in regulatory guidance in the National Mortgage Settlement. And what you see here are three points that we'd like to make.

First is, net charge-off after making these adjustments declined $417 million or 11.5%, as our underlying asset quality trends continue to strengthen. Second, 30-plus-day performing consumer delinquencies, excluding fully-insured consumer real estate loans, declined about $200 million or 2%. And our nonperformers decreased $1.4 billion or 5.7% versus the second quarter, driven equally by improvements in both commercial as well as consumer loan quality.

And on the commercial side, our utilized reservable criticized exposure improved by 15% or about $3 billion.

As we look at credit quality for the balance of the year, we would expect the provision, as we discussed at the end of last quarter, to be in the range of $1.8 billion, which is what we've seen over the last two quarters, and $2.4 billion, which we saw during the first quarter. So that guidance is unchanged from what we have given before.

With that, let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Bruce. I'm going to cover slide 23 and add a few thoughts before we take your questions.

If you think back to when we started the year, we said that we would focus on a few key areas -- building the (inaudible) Company, continuing to manage the risk, continuing reducing the cost base of the Company and driving our core business growth for the franchise. As you look at the results Bruce covered, I think we have shown strong results and we are moving in the right direction in every area.

Our industry-leading Tier 1 common capital levels provide a solid base to serve our customers and a balance sheet that can do a great customer business. But what I wanted to draw your attention to on this slide is the progress we've made across our three groups of customers and clients, whether it's our consumers, our companies or institutional investors.

If you look at the business lines that Bruce described, our operational metrics are improving across the board, and the costs in each of the operating businesses other than LAS were down linked-quarter and year over year while revenues continue to be solid.

For the individual consumers we serve, our deposits continue to grow. Our net account growth was solid this quarter and we're regaining the market share in our direct-to-consumer mortgage lending business.

With our preferred clients in our consumer business, our growth continues as we continue to improve the offers we have for those clients, with increased checking account and brokerage assets in our Merrill Lynch platform.

If you think about our service network overall, we continue to optimize it, reducing branches as we meet the customer behavior changes as they move to online and mobile banking, which continues to increase nicely with 11 million users in the mobile and tablet platform.

The companies we serve are also doing more business with us. Small-business originations are up, as Bruce stated earlier. Loans continue to expand and investment banking fees continue to grow. As we move to our institutional investor clients, we continue to add to our industry-leading research capabilities and our sales and trading revenue continue to do well in our overall difficult environment in the markets that we had during the summer months.

So this quarter shows the progress that our Company continues to make. It shows the hard work of all our teammates of streamlining and simplifying the Company is paying off. It shows the strength of the integrated business model, which serves customers and clients in a way that no other firm can. And it shows how that combination deepens relationships, provides the best-in-class financial capabilities and will drive growth. With that, Bruce and I would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just some extraordinary, I would say, performance on the capital ratio. I wanted to talk about that a little bit. Did I hear correctly that that 8.97 is inclusive of the terms of the NPR?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay, that's good. As you think about that going into -- I've heard some notes that there were some kind of benefits that could be somewhat temporary. But obviously over the next several quarters, one would expect that to continue to improve. Could you talk a little bit about whether you are looking for improvement either in RWAs or your deductions? And then also how you think about that since you are likely to be more or less -- either now or certainly in three months -- at the level that you would be required by the combination of the Basel III capital requirement and the SIFI buffer.

BRUCE THOMPSON: When we look at the ratio, let's talk first about the numerator; then we can go to the denominator. As I said, there was about $3 billion on the numerator of the $8 billion that related to things that we benefited from rates. We'll obviously see how that goes going forward, but I do want to make sure that there was $3 billion there.

On the numerator side, because of where we are with respect to having NOLs, as we go forward, where we are going to be different than most of our peers is on the numerator side, our pretax income is going to tend to approximate the net income as it relates to capital build. So we've got benefits going forward relative to our peers based on using those NOLs, which, as you all are aware, are excluded from a Basel perspective.

On the denominator side, there are three things that we would also continue to benefit from as we look to drive this number higher. The first is on the retail credit side. We noted here during the quarter that we had about $27 billion of benefit in risk-weighted assets through both the reduction in consumer exposures, as well as improvement within the credit portfolio that we saw on the consumer side. And as we continue to reduce nonperforming mortgages, as well as one of the consumer credit portfolios in the card business, we'd look to continue to have benefit there.

The second thing is that the structured credit in some of the legacy books will continue to run off between now and 2017; we will benefit from that. And then third, there obviously continues to be a lot of work that is done with respect to models and developing the systems to make sure that your measurements are appropriate here.

So we feel very good about the capital build during the quarter and we think as we go forward that the ability to continue to optimize and drive that Basel III number continues to have real opportunity for us.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Just to follow up on that -- that's great on the tactical side. What about strategically, now that you are pretty much where you need to be? How do you think about that capital level differently? Do you think about it in terms of your approach towards allocating to businesses or distributions, and how should we think about that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I would -- and one of the things that we highlighted -- and I'm going to speak first on Basel I, to that question -- that over the course of the last couple quarters, as we looked to optimize our Basel I ratio, we were obviously very tight and had fairly firm limits on loan growth as we looked to optimize the balance sheet. As we've gotten the balance sheet to where we want it to be, that clearly pursuing loan growth in this rate environment is very much a priority. And if you look at what we did during this quarter, it is the culmination of several quarters of work, where we started to see good loan growth within the GWIM business, we saw the increase in mortgage production, not all of which is loan growth, but some of it is loan growth, and then on the banking and market side, where loan growth was extraordinarily strong.

So we are using this strength in the balance sheet to look to drive growth in the loan side. We are obviously doing it in a prudent way, with borrowers that have the credit quality that we should be extending to, and you've seen the results of some of that.

On Basel III, as we work through Basel III, a little bit of shift in mindset in that you are looking to optimize and consider both how things get measured as well as under Basel III as Basel I. Basel III going forward is going to be the governor on capital distributions, so we are obviously very mindful to be managing the balance sheet with Basel III front of mind. We are obviously at a point at the end of the quarter, upwards of 9%, where we are very close to or in excess of the stated minimums. We will need to see where the SIFI buffer comes out. But think we've positioned ourselves very well for both growing the business, as well, as we look forward, going through the CCAR process.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. So that should mean that if this process is ongoing that you would expect to see loan growth accelerate modestly from here?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I'm not going to suggest on an annualized basis that we saw commercial and corporate loan growth of 10% that you are going to see it accelerate. It can bump around a little bit in any quarter. But you should expect and know that internally with those areas that have returns, we are pushing and looking to drive loan growth. That's correct.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would add the impact of the portfolios that we had identified going back a couple years to run off, which helps in the capital, because as Bruce said earlier, they are actually providing capital, is less now than it was then, because, A, they are smaller and the quarterly runoff is more muted, which then allows the loan growth to come through to the bottom line.

So think about the card business, for example. We are getting to a place where we've got it pretty well-positioned where we want, and I think we approved [875,000] new card customers this quarter. That is a little bit more than we did last quarter. And we are driving very high credit, exactly what we want, and we are driving that out there. So as you think about the ability to show loan growth through the sort of all the ins and outs of the runoff portfolios, that is what you're starting to see, too, is those things are getting smaller as to the whole.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Bruce, on the net interest income, you said that the $10.5 billion is a good starting point for the fourth quarter NII?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct, John.

JOHN MCDONALD: I guess what are the puts and takes from there? Did you say you hope to get some debt reductions -- or the benefit from debt reductions could offset the headwinds that you expect from low rates and runoff? Did I hear that right?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. During the third quarter we had $6.2 billion as I mentioned, of TruPS that occurred during the quarter, and $12 billion of stated maturities. We will have the full benefit of those during the fourth quarter as opposed to just a partial benefit.

The second thing is the redemption of the TruPS will have the $50 million benefit that I mentioned in the fourth quarter, and we are continuing to push deposit pricing down. So that is a benefit as well. So as we look at the fourth quarter absent any unexpected decline in rates and any impact of negative hedging effectiveness or FAS 91, we would expect net interest income to be at least in the fourth quarter what it was in the third quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: What about next year on NII, Bruce? Do you have additional tools on the cost funding side? Do you hope to keep that $10.5 billion run rate or grow or see some pressure from there? Could you give us some perspective for next year?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We are managing the portfolio to look to be able to continue to have modest increases in NII through what we are doing on the debt footprint, as well as deposit pricing. So the goal is to continue to push that up. We think we've got a good plan in place to continue to do that. We obviously can't predict interest rates, but if they were to stay where they are in the forward curve or to materialize, we think we will be successful in doing that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then switching over to expenses, do you have any sense of where you might be on the litigation reserve build cycle later innings, or any way to frame that for us?

BRUCE THOMPSON: The Merrill Lynch class-action settlement was a significant litigation item to get behind us. And as you look at litigation going forward, we've narrowed it with this settlement in large part -- there are cases obviously outside of mortgage, but largely the majority of the litigation that we have now with the Merrill Lynch settlement is within the mortgage area. And we obviously provide reserves for what we think we have, and in the disclosure we give guidance on range of possible loss for what we'd expect within the litigation area, and we continue to work through those.

With where we've built the balance sheet, obviously getting these behind us is something that we'd like to do, but we are only going to do it in a way that makes sense for the shareholder.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and then on the LAS side you mention that with the 60 plus delinquents moving down, you should start to see the LAS expenses come down next quarter?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: From an operating basis, John, we saw the first decline in FTE. You can see the contractors a little higher. The third quarter was a big -- a lot of work because it was a combination of the Department of Justice, the timely mod work and also just the general work. But as we look at it even since the quarter end, we've seen the headcount start to come down already even further.

So this thing has been a lot of work. From an operating basis, we would say from the numbers of people and stuff like that, it will be down in the fourth quarter. The question is from the litigation perspective, those are things that bounce around a little bit if you look across all the last quarters. But from an operating basis, we've already reduced the headcount in the fourth quarter from where it was in the third quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: So I guess from a total expenses, all-in jumping off point for the fourth quarter, if we adjust for our own estimate of litigation reserves [purse], what would you think would be a number for the expenses to jump off from?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think if you adjust for the litigation expenses, those are going to be a good place to jump off from. And as Brian referenced, we think there is the opportunity within the LAS area to start driving those expenses down in the fourth quarter and clearly into 2013.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: John, the way we think about it is we look at it year-over-year. Third quarter last year, third quarter this year, you had sort of flat expenses. But if you look at the impact of the increase in litigation, increase in LAS, the rest of the Company is down $1 billion or so in operating expenses. And that will move up or down, because if we have a better trading quarter, we could have some more compensation there.

But you are seeing the impacts of New BAC plus the other initiatives in the Company taking the expenses down, and we are just continuing to work at it.

That being said, we are still making investments in this Company to make sure that we are doing the right thing to have the franchise we want coming out of it; so more loan officers, FSAs, preferred bankers, and $3 billion plus in systems development work this year, $700 million, $800 million of which is going to help us get the expense base down in future years.

So we're trying to balance that, but you can see the expenses from the core basis, what you are pointing out, continuing to trend down, and we are feeling better about that. And the best news in this quarter is we think -- as you look at the LAS, you see that the breakpoint here, and we'll see how -- we will keep driving that down in the fourth quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Last thing for me is on the Mortgage Banking Fee results. First, could you drill down a little bit for the drivers of the strong Mortgage Banking Fees? You mentioned the origination volumes. Just what you saw on gain on sale margins, and then also how did the MSR hedge gains contribute. And was there a business sale as well that you mentioned?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure, within Mortgage Banking, we did see a business sale that was about $175 million of a small ancillary business that materialized in the quarter.

The second thing is with respect to mortgage margins, they stayed relatively firm in the third quarter relative to the second quarter, given the activities that the industry had industrywide.

And the third point of your question is if you go and look at page 26 of our supplement, when you mention the MSR hedge, that relative to the last couple quarters, we were about $350 million better in the third quarter than we had been the prior several quarters. And we detail that on slide 26.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: John, one thing I would say tying those two questions together. On the origination side, you can see the volumes coming up. But we've added 3000 more people during this year than we thought we would have in the underwriting fulfillment side of the good mortgage side to help us get the volumes going, and those people continue to come onstream. So our capacity to grow there is expanding.

And some of the people that -- and they are all in the headcount numbers you see. But some of the people that we're taking out of LAS, we're converting to the first mortgage business because teammates are experienced in mortgage and to help build our capacity. Like a lot of our colleagues, the volume levels have been high and our capacity to get them closed with the underwriting standards has been a lot of work. And so we've added 3000 or 4000 people, I think at this point, than where we thought we would be this year, and we will continue to do that to capture the revenue that you spoke of.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer & Company.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & COMPANY: I'm looking at slide 39 and slide seven on the capital, and I'm sorry, maybe I'm a little thick. But on the slide -- and I'm trying to reconcile them. And slide 39 is very helpful, and it's obviously nice in that the numerator is going up and the denominator is going down.

But if we were looking at slide 39, I guess which -- I'm confused about which of these movements are due to, say, changes in markets and rates and spreads and so on -- how much of the movement is actually due to changes in the underlying assets? And then how much of the movement is due to changes in models and assumptions, if you look at the main categories on slide 39?

BRUCE THOMPSON: If you -- and this bridge between June 30 and September 30 will be very close. Recall that when we reported it in June, we were using BIS, as opposed to at September 30, that we are now using the US NPR. That had some about 15 basis points difference.

But with that being said, if you look at the $126.8 billion to the $134.6 billion, it is roughly $8 billion. And of that $8 billion, roughly $3.2 billion was due to the impact that rates had on our securities portfolio, as well as our MSR. That is the piece that was impacted by rates, that there was nothing that we directly did to impact that.

The rest of what you saw during the quarter had to do with pretax earnings before FBO, which does not affect regulatory capital. It had to do with some different assets at the Bank that are no longer excluded from the calculation. And it had to do with a variety of other things, including the fact that we no longer have any 10% threshold deductions in the number. That's the bridge on the numerator.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay.

BRUCE THOMPSON: If you move to the denominator and you look at page 39, it is about $65 billion reduction in risk-weighted assets. Let me give you the three biggest buckets of that. As I mentioned earlier, the first bucket is about $27 billion as it relates to retail or consumer exposures. The lion's share of that $27 billion had to do with either reductions in the actual exposure or the core credit improvement that we saw within the book. And a very small amount of that had to do with any model changes or model optimization.

The second big bucket that is out there is in OTC derivatives and repos, which was about $26 billion. If you look at those numbers, almost all of that $26 billion had to do with either reductions in exposure, improvements with how we manage collateral or improvements in the underlying quality of the counterparty.

The third bucket and the smallest bucket of which is about $18 billion is a variety of things, including within that $18 billion bucket, spread tightening that we saw out in the market that resulted in the ratio coming down. You can see, though, that the $18 billion is relatively small compared to the overall $65 billion.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Thank you for that. That is the best explanation any bank has ever offered, and I think it is a model for the rest of the industry, and I appreciate that.

The other thing I was just wondering, on slide 21, you were the only bank that flagged the impact of the mortgage settlement. Everybody talked about the OCC guidance. But is this roughly $400 million -- is this going to be a quarterly thing for a while, that we are going to -- obviously, you've made provisions for the impact of the NMS; but should we expect to see charge-offs at an elevated level for a year or two?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, as we work through the National Mortgage Settlement, we are working very hard to be through a significant portion of the obligations that we have for modifications. The third quarter -- if we -- and I think we have a pretty good sense for this -- without question will be the largest number like this that comes through. Probably very small in the fourth quarter and maybe a little bit of carryover into next year, but this is by far the most significant quarter that you will see with this. As you said, it doesn't affect the provision because you've got both a writeoff as well as an allowance, but that should be a lot smaller going forward.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, great. Thank you. That's it for me.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A couple of follow-ups on the legacy mortgage costs, and looking out beyond fourth quarter, just trying to get a sense of how quickly they may come down. And I guess how easy you think it may be to forecast, just thinking about modest home price appreciation from here and nothing unusual on the regulatory side.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think I would say we expect them to come down. There have been -- one of the things that has been difficult about this is the third-party impacts and timing of that, from what we may have thought last year at this time, for example. So the Department of Justice settlement took longer to get finalized; therefore, it took longer to put in. So those outside impacts could happen.

But given everything we know, we would expect them to come down next quarter and beyond. We've got to be careful because sometimes there are sort of nonoperating adjustments in there. So just maybe think about the headcount and the work we do, because the 60-plus-day delinquencies are down, as you see on this slide, that we can forecast in the work and what we are seeing. As we are modifying a lot of loans and getting through those, the short-sale volumes are as high as they've ever been, and the liquidation volumes are high. So everything we see says that we just have to be a little careful about how we work quarter to quarter based on ebbs and flows and some of the legislation gets passed at state levels and things like that, and they can have an impact.

I would tell you that what we are seeing is the inventory clears very quickly. So as we get to the properties, they sell quickly -- within 60, 90 days, that has been true. We are seeing by geography the areas where the process can move forward, and we are seeing the outstanding 60-plus-day drop more dramatically. That would be an example in California, Arizona, versus areas where it has moved a little slower, New Jersey or Illinois, for example. But everything we said, this is coming down because the work is going away.

You point your finger to the one key question, which is if changes are made to policies or programs, that can slow it down. But I don't think with as much volume we've seen reduction in 60-plus, that would overcome that, frankly.

MATT O'CONNOR: Maybe I will just toss some numbers out there. You're at a $12 billion annual run rate right now. I feel like at one point you said $2 billion could be a more sustainable level as you move through all this. So that is a $10 billion decline. Any guess on does it take two years to get through that? Is it five years to get through that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we'd look at it and say 2013 and into 2014 you would be through that, based on everything we know today.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: But again, that is subject to caveat of somebody changing the rules, something changing the rules. But right now, as we said, we would expect that the -- as we move through next year, the year-end numbers would still be elevated. But as we move into 2014, you would see them come down to more normalized levels. We are doing everything we can to get through it as quickly as possible.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And a just separate topic here. As we think about maybe some of the interest rates out there outside the Treasuries, so like mortgage rates, the agency RMBS rates, and I think a lot of other asset classes, you've seen rates come down in the securities side. How do you conceptually think about managing the discretionary book from here? I understand you're trying to grow C&I loans a little bit more, but obviously, the discretionary book is still a pretty big chunk and you have a lot of deposits that you need to try and balance.

BRUCE THOMPSON: One of the things that we are not going to do in this rate environment is stretch for yield and create an OCI problem under Basel III going forward. So on the securities portfolio, if you aggregate the securities portfolio as well as our whole loan portfolio, it's about a $600 billion total number that we are managing. It has an average life of about 2.5 years. And as I mentioned on the questions for net interest income, even with where we're reinvesting things that are either come due or repaid, we think the shrinkage in the long-term debt footprint will at least cover what we've got as far as repricing, absent no changes in forward rates going forward.

You bring up a good point, which the industry is obviously focused on, is that the one area and the one asset class that doesn't have OCI risk and that is funded on the asset side the way we fund our liabilities is loan growth. And we've been pushing over the last couple quarters for that loan growth. And as we talked about what we saw in GWIM, as well as in the institutional side, we've started to see that loan growth. And it's obviously, as it relates to matching in the way that we manage capital, where we would like to be.

So we are -- it is obviously an environment that is not easy to manage in, but we think we've got a variety of levers, most notably high-cost debt that we can continue to take down so that you see similar type results to what we saw this quarter.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: So I guess two questions. The first, just in terms of the GSE related mortgage repurchase claims. Obviously, we are seeing other banks sort of move through that process, build reserves to sort of put that claim risk behind them. Know you are in a dispute with Fannie. Any sense of how you expect that dispute to get resolved? Do you think that is something that you will just sort of gradually resolve with additional reserves and resolutions over time? Do you expect to see some kind of a settlement with Fannie? Any sense of when that overhang might get sort of put into the rearview mirror or how it will be put into the rearview mirror?

BRUCE THOMPSON: The first point we would make here, and you see it in the numbers, is that with respect to current vintages, things that have been underwritten over the last couple years, where we have an obligation to repurchase those, we have been repurchasing those. And what you see when you look at the schedules are that the increases in the unpaid or the balance of outstanding claims, which as I said are notional, not losses, where you are seeing the buildup is in those payments where they are greater than 24 months. So with respect to the piece that is greater than 24 months, I would really just repeat what we've said previously, that there are two ways that this gets resolved. We have different points of view on this. We continue to have ongoing discussions. And I think the most likely outcomes are either that there is a settlement of sort or there is some other way that we would look to resolve that. And that core disagreement remains, and as we've said in the disclosures and how we updated the range of possible loss, there are ongoing discussions, but there is obviously nothing done.

ED NAJARIAN: Yes, I guess that sort of is my point. The two sides have this core disagreement. I guess you are probably unwilling to speculate how you sort of come to the middle on that core disagreement. But do you feel like it is in your best interest now to sort of maybe be more proactive on that and try to meet in the middle, try to get that settled and try to get that put behind you? Or do you feel pretty firm in your stance that we are right and we are going to keep digging in our heels on this issue?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Given the disclosure we put out, we obviously feel pretty strongly about what our position is here. At the same time, as we've seen in Merrill Lynch, getting these legacy issues to the extent it makes any type of economic sense for the shareholder behind us is a good thing and eliminates an element of uncertainty in your mind.

And the last thing I just said, it has got to be the right decision for the shareholders, and that is what we do day in, day out as we try to put these different issues behind us.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks. And then the second question has to do with capital. It was only about a little over a year ago that Warren Buffett was making an investment in your Company and the chatter was all around the potential to have to build capital. Now all of a sudden, we are looking at your capital ratios and thinking a lot about excess capital.

I'm sure you probably don't want to give us outlook and predictions in terms of capital return in conjunction with the CCAR. But can you give us a sense -- you spent so much time in the last 18 months building capital. Clearly, there are shareholders that are obviously looking for a dividend increase. Some are, I'm sure, looking for a stock buyback, especially after looking at the capital ratios today.

Can you give us any sense of how you are thinking about capital over the next 12 months, above and beyond what is going to be used for internal loan growth? Those capital ratios are going to continue to build, based on some of the guidance that you just gave us over the last 45 minutes. And there is going to be a lot of people interested in thinking about how you are your thoughts are around dividend increases and stock buyback for the next 12 months as those ratios continue to build.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we are doing the work on the -- we will start the work on the CCAR process in 30 days or so, when we get the information, and so we won't speculate on that.

But I think starting off at a broader perspective, we have made it clear that the capital we have in this Company has been sufficient based on all of the work that we've been doing over the last couple years. We've included that the capital is sufficient to run the Company and to support the Company growth, and that all the capital above that, when we get the approval to do it, will go back to the shareholders, either as dividends or share repurchases. Because we frankly built the capital level so we -- there is no reason to retain the capital at all.

So it is all your capital; it is all the shareholders' capital. Until we get to the levels that we can return it, it is on the balance sheet and our tangible book value per share, which we focus on in growing and see that continue to grow. And then after we hit the levels that would be the SIFI buffer plus or minus whatever cushion that we would feel comfortable and pass the CCAR, it is all going back in one way or the other way.

ED NAJARIAN: Last question related to that, Brian, in your mind, there still are some overhanging litigation issues. There is still the up to $6 billion of mortgage repurchase related costs that you outlined. Is that -- are those things that sort of, at least in the near term, will make you a little bit extra cautious on capital retention relative to where we otherwise think you might be, until you sort of get those litigation and repo issues more fully resolved?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, all of that has to be taken into account. It is in the technical rules, the QRAs and things that we look at. But think about this quarter. We basically had a breakeven quarter. We passed a major milestone in putting behind us a major piece of litigation that we -- and the litigation expenses were $1.6 billion or whatever they were -- and we still built capital. So it factors into it obviously, but on the other hand, we have lots of ways to build capital.

And so we are focused on getting to a position that you suggest, which is we start returning all the capital we've promised. We have to get through the CCAR process and until we sort of see that, we can't project on that. But in those processes and in our mindset, all of that is factored in. But if you look at the track record, we continue to build capital even though we've been putting behind us this major piece of litigation every quarter -- or on several quarters.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Two questions. One was on the hedge that you've historically had on the AOCI book. Have you been changing the size of that at this stage at all?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I'm sorry, you cut out, Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Can you hear me better now?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes.

BETSY GRASECK: You have a hedge on the AOCI book, and I was just wondering if you still have that in place.

BRUCE THOMPSON: On the overall securities book?

BETSY GRASECK: Yes.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, as we've said, a lot of the longer-duration fixed rates, we do swap to floating to minimize the OCI risk.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and did you change the size of that hedge at all during the quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Nothing material within the securities book this quarter, no.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then separately, there are some regulators who are suggesting that the debt portion of the balance sheet, from senior debt through -- actually all the way through equity -- should be somewhere in the 25% to 30% range. And I'm wondering if -- this is a Title II question -- and I'm wondering if you've had any conversations with regulators about that? Do you feel there is anything you would need to do in that side of the debt stack?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It is something that is very topical. Even with the changes that we've made to our debt footprint, if you look at our debt footprint on any type of absolute and relative measure relative to our peers, we are at the high end, which obviously from an expense perspective is not a good thing.

So I can -- we are not going to predict what is going to happen going forward from a regulatory perspective. But I think given that we have, on a relative basis, more between the parent and Merrill Lynch than our peers, that we will be able to manage that well. We look at maturities, and over the course of the next year, we have maturities of about $30 billion of debt, and we would expect to repay a large portion of that through cash that we generate and through the existing cash resources we have with the Company.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, so as we model through the next couple of years, we should assume the same pace of long-term debt decline, or a little bit of an acceleration into the next year or two?

BRUCE THOMPSON: As you model in -- what I would model in is that a large portion of the maturities the way that we lay those out will be taken out with existing cash, not new long-term debt. Periodically, we will raise debt; we've said 21 to 24 months time to funding. That would tend to migrate you down to a liquidity at the parent level in the ZIP code of $75 billion to $80 billion. And as we've said, think 2013, think 2014, that the majority of that debt will be repaid with cash resources.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Lastly on capital, one of the capital rules has to do with holding a haircut against the CRM. I think it is an 8% haircut or so. So when you talk about full model approvals, you're assuming that haircut goes away. Is that correct?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Are you referring to CM -- which model -- are you referring to CEM?

BETSY GRASECK: Right.

BRUCE THOMPSON: As we look at and the capital numbers that we quote, we've assumed CEM and IMM approval. And with the different work that we've done, the spread between what our IMM numbers are versus our CMM numbers has gotten much tighter. So to the extent any model were to take longer to get approved, we've reduced that risk significantly as we've built capital.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research, LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. Two questions. On GWIM, the 20.1% pretax margin, obviously depressed by the interest rate environment, et cetera, et cetera. Is there a target operating margin there or is there some way we can sort of imagine a more, quote, normalized margin over the next few years? Because it seems like that businesses is sort of undercontributing significantly at this point.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think you point out that one of the strategies to increase margins in the Wealth Management business overall has been to drive the loans and deposits, along with the strong asset management business we have. And I think as rates normalize, Nancy, and I guess normal is going to be hard to define here for the near term, but as they normalize, you will see those values come back up. And that will the increase pretax margin because we don't need to do any more work to gather that in, i.e. on the deposit side especially.

If you look at them year-over-year, they are down about 4% and expenses. John Thiel and Keith Banks, who run the two businesses for us -- they are in US Trust and Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management -- have been working on expenses. So revenues year-over-year are flat and expenses are down, and they are continuing to work on the non-client-facing expenses especially, and they will be a beneficiary of all of that work. So I think that will help the margins.

But remember that the core brokerage revenue, which is Investment Management revenue for the Merrill Lynch Group of the Company, is a lower-margin business. Our margins are better than anybody else, and so we've got to continue to improve them. But we'd look for that to improve, but I would be careful about assuming how much improvement. Moving it up 3%, 4% might be doable, but I wouldn't assume it will get back to a private banking style margin, because the dominance of the Merrill Lynch -- or the traditional brokerage revenue streams.

The other thing is in that -- overall -- so remember that we are selling the International GWIM, which had low margin, which will help improve the margins going forward.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. One more question on the litigation front. We've seen a couple of new lawsuits dumped on the banking industry over the past couple weeks. You've got see the Schneiderman suit with JPM regarding stuff acquired in Bear Stearns, and then you've got the Fed, of course, suing Wells Fargo on FHA way pre-crisis stuff. Are you guys vulnerable to either of those? And have you already had provisions in the various other settlements that you have been involved in that would address any of those issues?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think as an industry, there is no question that there has been an increase in that activity. So by virtue of being in the industry, you are out there. I think that one thing that is important -- and if you go back to our DOJ AG settlement, and when we took the hit for about $500 million when we announced that settlement, it covered a lot of the FHA activity predating, I believe, it was sometime in the latter half of 2009. So that piece of it relative to others, we've resolved several quarters ago. It was obviously -- it was a big number to resolve. So we do have that one that is out there behind us, whereas some others don't, and it was one of the key parts of that settlement for us.

So we are a little bit different from that perspective, and we will just have to see how the balance of it unfolds and if other things come up.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: First question on loan growth. What has commercial loan utilization done this quarter versus the last quarter or two?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It really -- it is not so much the utilization of revolvers that has remained in that low 30s level. The loan growth that we are seeing is more actual funded loans that we are making as opposed to revolver draws.

MIKE MAYO: And I noticed that commercial loans grew 14% annualized linked-quarter, and that the period-end loans were up a lot more than the average loans. Is anything happening in the economy to accelerate that commercial loan growth, I guess, at the end of the quarter, or is this Bank of America's specific strategy?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think we've been pushing and looking to do more on the lending front for several quarters, and we saw some of that materialize. And the one note I would make, Mike -- and we have it back in the slide, if you look at our Banking segment -- we did have one or two fundings at the end of the quarter that will get repaid during the fourth quarter. So it was a little bit accelerated in the fourth quarter. But even if you account for that fact, we still saw very strong loan growth in the quarter.

MIKE MAYO: All right. So that will be noise when we compare fourth quarter to third quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It will be, but like I said, even without that, the growth was very strong.

MIKE MAYO: And you said loan growth is a priority. Are you willing to lower rates in order to stimulate more loan growth?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We've been very disciplined, and if you look in the supplement and look at the average spread in our loan growth on the commercial side, that the new originations and the spreads on that have remained at relatively flat on both -- on a quarter-over-quarter basis. And while we want to make loans, the loans that we make have to make economic sense and have to have the returns on capital that are consistent with where we are taking the business. And the opportunities that we've seen and the ability to grow the book are generating those returns, and we feel good about it.

I think you have to take a step back and look at the macro environment, where here in the US, you've got banks that are competing and, given the large liquidity bases that we have and capital bases, looking to get invested. Some of the loan growth -- and if you look at it outside of the US, as we see some of the different foreign banks pull back, the opportunities for us to grow our loan base, where, relatively speaking, we're smaller internationally, we are using the opportunity with the capital and liquidity that we have to take advantage of that. And you can see it in some of the trade finance and other loan areas outside the United States.

MIKE MAYO: All right. So demand is not a whole lot better, you are not doing it with rates, you are gaining share from foreign banks might be part of it. Anything else you would want to add to that list?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We referenced in the slide that in the real estate area, for the first time in several quarters, that we've seen growth in commercial real estate. We shaped that business down when things got tough to a level that we thought made sense from a risk perspective, and we are now in a position to be able to start growing that.

And while we are focused on doing things with our customers, we've seen one or two portfolios, not huge size, that have come up that we've been able to bring in. And when we do that, the first thing that we look at in those portfolios are how much of the exposure of the portfolio is to people that we do business with and we would like to do more. And we've had a couple situations where we've been able to bring those portfolios in and become more significant with clients that we want to become more significant with.

KEVIN STITT: And then switching gears, it was a good mortgage quarter. Are you holding any of the newly-originated mortgages on the balance sheet or are you securitizing and selling those immediately?

BRUCE THOMPSON: A couple points on that. The first is within -- we talked about loan growth within our Global Wealth & Investment Management area of a little over $2 billion on a notional amount for the quarter. A portion of that was mortgage lending that we do with that client base, as well as securities-based lending, so that there was some growth in mortgages within the GWIM space.

Outside of the Global Wealth & Investment Management space, we are looking at starting to hold a little bit of conforming product, where the product is priced and has the returns that we think make sense. So you may see in the fourth quarter and into the first quarter of next year holding a little bit more conforming product. But there was nothing material in that light during the third quarter.

MIKE MAYO: With spreads the way they are, why would you want to hold any mortgage loans on the balance sheet?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Some of the -- for the mortgage loans that we make that in many cases tend to be more nonconforming, not conforming. Because the nonconforming pricing can make sense. And depending on the duration, some of the conforming stuff may or may not make sense.

But your point is the right one and it is consistent with how we manage the different portfolios. We are not going to go out on the curve and take undue interest-rate risk, chasing yield in the short term.

MIKE MAYO: Last question, there has been some articles recently about Merrill Lynch hiring brokers from other firms, financial advisors. Are we about to see a war for financial advisor talent? Are you looking to beef up your number of financial advisors? Or just your general strategy for expanding the thundering herd?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We haven't changed our strategy. We've been fairly consistent in how we've worked on it. So we basically hire experienced advisors and we bring advisors in the business through our PMD and our FSA programs, but no change from our standpoint.

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR: Yes, just to piggyback on Michael on the Mortgage Banking side, you guys used to be a very large player in the mortgage banking. We know you've exited both the wholesale and the correspondent business. But given where we are today and how profitable the mortgage banking space is, are you rethinking that strategy? Could you reenter the correspondent market or are you just planning to grow through the retail markets?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We are not changing the strategy. We'll continue to grow as we've grown 14% this quarter, and a like amount in the first quarter through the direct-to-retail. It's part of the focus of the strategy of the Company, to make mortgages to our customers and do a great job of it, as opposed to buy closed loans in the secondary market.

PAUL MILLER: So therefore, just the retail side, so how much market share do you think you can gain on the retail side? I think you are probably right around 4% or 5%. Can we see you materially increase that or that is probably where you are going to sit?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think 4% to 5% of the overall mortgage market. On the direct-to-real, we are higher than that, because you take out the correspondent. But if you just look at the number of customers who have a mortgage somewhere else who are our customers in our Wealth Management business or in our Preferred business, the amount of mortgage growth we could have would be very strong, and that will continue to build as we focus the sales teams on those efforts.

And if you look at the productivity of the mortgage loan officers we hire that work with our teams in the branches and stuff, it is multiples of the productivity of the people out working in the general field. So as that business system continues to take hold, and even with the mortgage loan officers today, if we can get the loans processed, we could close 15%, 20%, 25% more loans per day than we do today. So we've got lots of room to grow in this business, but we are going to do it the way which is focused on our clients with high quality loans, because the economics of the business do not support anything else.

PAUL MILLER: And then just last question is your dispute with Fannie Mae, I believe you're not selling any loans to Fannie Mae; you are selling to Freddie Mac, which are both really run by the FHFA. Is the dispute with Fannie Mae at all hindering your ability to sell loans to the GSEs?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we are growing faster than other people in mortgage production on a quarterly basis.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, thank you very much, guys.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Bank Nomura.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA: Two quick follow-ups. And I appreciate all the disclosure; I just want to make sure I'm trying to compare apples to apples. On the 8.97%, that includes all model approval. When listening and looking at your disclosure, it sounds like excluding model approval, it would be maybe 40 basis points lower. Am I in the ballpark?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Without IMM, it would be slightly more of a reduction than that but still below 100 basis points for IMM, Glenn.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, perfect. I know it's early, but just general gut check, what should we focus on more, with or without as we approach CCAR? In other words, again trying to put the whole industry on an apples to apples basis of --

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: With or without --

GLENN SCHORR: IMM approval.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We are spending an inordinate amount of time making sure through the different governance channels, and the like, that we will be in a position as quickly as possible to be IMM compliant. Obviously nobody has been declared to be IMM compliant yet, and I don't want to speculate on becoming IMM compliant. I think the important thing is, Glenn, if you look at the work that we've done with respect to Basel III, and you look at where we are relative to our peers, we are in very good shape. And I think the CCAR piece -- there is two things that you have to be mindful of. The first is that last year the stated CCAR results are where your Basel I Tier 1 common is, probably gets adjusted this year to be Basel I.5 relative to a 5% reference rate.

That is the CCAR test the way it was done last year, and our sense is probably the way that it ends up being done this year. That is the base test. The second test is the glide path and do you show a path to being where you need to be from a Basel III perspective. And that is why when we talk about capital, we are very focused on both of those measures, and we feel like we are in very good shape under both Basel I and Basel III at this point.

GLENN SCHORR: I appreciate that. I just want to make sure I heard what I think I heard. Some of the mortgages you are originating are putting on balance sheet. Now obviously good credit, the customer, because it is originated from your channel. But when gain on sale of margins are at all-time highs, is that -- it feels as an outsider that it would make sense to be selling them into the market. But curious on how you view that balance sheeting versus selling them out.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think what Bruce said is in the third quarter, we sold them out. We are looking at retaining some, but it would not be material amount relative to the overall production of our mortgage business.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, appreciate that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Glenn, the second thing is you've got to remember, we got a mortgage portfolio that runs off on a balance sheet today that is $200 billion plus. So just to have that stay in place, for lack of a better term, you have to fill it back up.

GLENN SCHORR: Unless someone wants to pay you a lot of money for it. But I hear you.

And finally, the focus on earnings growth and loan growth, I think you talked effectively at all the price competition. I'm curious if the industry has a potential to be lulled to sleep in this low-rate environment. You mentioned you are getting the same kind of spreads on new loan originations. It's coming at a lower rate, but we are in an excellent credit environment right now. But curious if we were to see it turning the other way, if you feel like the industry might be putting on loans that we're being lulled to sleep on spread, but the rates actually can get eaten up pretty quickly if there is a turn in credit.

BRUCE THOMPSON: The one thing that we've not seen with loans coming is historically, when what you are referencing is the loans -- is the structuring of loans and credit quality of loans that you bring on the balance sheet starting to be impaired in this chase for yield. The number of people globally that are looking to grow their loan books -- you have to think globally -- is less than it has historically been. And when we are running the loan books, we are very focused on not just growing them, but making sure that the pricing returns out from a cost of capital perspective and that the structures continue to have integrity, so that if what you've just referenced happens, that we do not have losses that we are not comfortable living with.

And at this point, given what we are seeing in the global competitive market, the ability to put loans on that make sense for us and have the structures that protect us, we continue to feel very good about.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And when you think about the consumer side, even loans we originated in the -- after the standards were changed dramatically in 2008 in terms of mortgage standards, or even card standards in 2007, 2008 -- and you start to look at loans originated in the latter half of 2008 and 2009, now three years plus later -- in an environment three years plus later where I think the core environment would have been for unemployment to be lower than it is now and economic growth to be higher based on what people thought at that time, we are seeing credit performance which is much better than the expected outcome. So we are not -- we are always checking ourselves and the question you raise, which is how do we make sure that we drive the business and don't have credit issues going forward.

What I will tell you, though, is that is where we want -- that we continue to frame this thing as to how we run the Company and focus on the core customer basis and do what they need, and aren't just changing chasing growth for growth's sake. And that then will keep us in things like the card business, where in the past we may have drifted into credit that was more difficult from doing it. And we are happy with our card business. It is growing strong; it's growing with the right customers with the high credit quality. We are not going to go reach for credit just to grow the business.

GLENN SCHORR: I really appreciate it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Vivek Juneja, JPMorgan.

VIVEK JUNEJA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: A couple of quick questions. HARP, how much did that account for your volume into the third quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: The HARP volume was about 30% of the entire -- of the originations.

VIVEK JUNEJA: And how long further -- how far do you think you are in the process? How much longer do you expect to be able to keep doing?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think we would expect that business to continue through the lion's share of 2013.

VIVEK JUNEJA: Okay. And then can you talk about the retail bank a little bit? Seems like you are shutting branches, but deposits continue to grow. So can you talk a little about what is going on there, where you are getting growth from? And since the shutting of branches, where you are in that rationalization and despite that, it seems like you have been able to grow deposits quite a bit.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So let's go -- think about it from all different points, which is we need to bring the cost structure down, so we've been on a plan to continue to close branches. And you can see that we did, again, 50, 60 this quarter and we will continue to do that. We are doing it carefully, and as we close those branches, the attrition we see is well within and less than we thought it would be, so that is turning out to be good. So that is sort of the branch closure, so we are getting what we want. We are keeping the customers and (inaudible) less operating cost. And that is a program that will continue carefully across many -- each quarter, there will be continued progress.

When we look at the core business, the things like the Durbin were in last year's third quarter; they're not this year's third quarter. So you are starting to see the run rate come out of the post -- all the regulatory changes in revenue sort of linked-quarter are stabilizing, given the changes in fees have been behind us now for several quarters.

Account growth, continued net new accounts. This mobile implementation, we're 11.1 million 800,000 new subscribers this quarter. We are 1 million plus more than anybody else. But the good news is the cost impact of that or the service impact of that is since we've allowed you to take a snapshot of your check, almost 1.75 million checks have gone through in literally a couple months of operations on that in the third quarter. The payments made off of that platform are now running $1 billion plus a week, and we will probably do $60 billion in payments through that platform this year. We've already done $40-some billion through 9/30.

And then the more important part is that's all cost optimization and service optimization, and our customer scores continue to increase -- each month, we see on our satisfaction scores -- we continue to see them increase. But importantly in the growth areas, in the Preferred segment, we continue to see strong growth there. We've added about 500,000 plus clients from Retail to Preferred; in other words, upgraded them through depth of relationship, which means they are bringing more than $50,000 in balances to us.

So we are quite pleased with that business, the Merrill Lynch growth. So I think it is working, and it is working in the balance between getting the costs down on the Retail side, expanding the Preferred side and then also managing the customer experience in the middle.

VIVEK JUNEJA: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Just a couple quick follow-ups. It is encouraging, certainly, that you guys highlighted LAS expenses could come down next quarter. But is there a way to give us a magnitude so we can know how to model this?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's a different way to ask the same question. The best way as you are looking to model is in the third quarter, we staffed to solve for doing everything from a change in regulation, compliance, as well as our own standards that we wanted to, as it relates to how we both service, as well as modify mortgages. There was incremental work that was done in the third quarter to get to that point.

The best way to start and to go through the analysis is to look at the number of the 60-plus-day delinquent loans that we have, because those without question required the most amount of work. Given where we are now, what we would expect going forward is that you would see the expenses trend down at the same rate that you see these 60-plus-day delinquencies come down, realizing it is going to be lagged by one and probably two quarters.

That is the best way to get a proxy for the manner in which you should see those expenses come down, as Brian said, ex anything unexpected that comes up from an expense perspective.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Two things. We've got to make sure we do this right, and that is we had to build the staffing to make sure that we could do the modifications on a timely basis. And then secondly, getting in the quarter-to-quarter, as you can see, we are trying to guide you to the longer-term. But the key thing is we are doing everything we can as the work comes down to get the resources down at the same pace. So it is something we are absolutely focused on, and we'll deliver for you. But we just have to make sure we do the work right, handle the customers right. This is a very difficult time for people to go through what is going on, because all these costs go to the modification, short sale, deed-in-lieu and foreclosure process.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Right, right. And then how much of that decline in 60-day delinquencies was due to modified loans, and what is the re-default risk there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Overall, we will get you some details on that, but just conceptually, each vintage of modifications performed better. So we've gone from levels that would have been after maybe a year's worth of modification, back from 2009 and 2008 -- we've been at this longer than people remember -- that were running 50, to now we are running them in the low 20s or high teens.

So the re-default rate has gone way down because of the structure of the programs, and frankly, the duration of time after the crisis.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. And then just to make sure I understood, Brian, I think you had said that as far as the trajectory of the decline in expenses overall for 00 looking at the entire thing at LAS and taking a step back, moderate improvements in 2013, but the big lever there is 2014. Is that right, or am I reading too much into that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think I was saying that you will get the improvements sort of on a quarterly basis all through 2013, and then in 2014, you will have the run rate of all that accumulated and for you in year-over-year comparisons. But it's going to come all during 2013.

So it is not -- moderate -- we can debate about moderate when they have the expense base -- the earlier question I was discussing. But it will come every single quarter. So it is not going to be held up and wait. It will come as fast as it can. So the work we are getting out this quarter has to do with the declines in the 60-plus-day. And the second quarter into the third quarter, it came out in the third. And that third quarter comes out in the fourth; it just takes you a little time because you actually have to finish the work, reassign accounts and go on. So it will come it is not even quarter by quarter; it will come month by month, week by week, all through 2013.

BRUCE THOMPSON: And your number of modifications during the quarter was 40,000.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thank you.

BRUCE THOMPSON: We will take one final question.

OPERATOR: Absolutely, sir. Jefferson Harralson, KBW.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KBW: Can you guys just remind us what your litigation costs were roughly per year through cycle?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We will happily get back to you on that. I don't know off the top of my head.

BRUCE THOMPSON: That was a long time ago.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: That seems like a long time ago; let's just say that.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: All right. And the other one, I just want to kind of zero in on one line item, which is on page four of the supplement. The (inaudible) and other income, I heard you say something about that, but it went from $600 million positive to $790 million negative. Was some of that the FVO or DVA, or is that all in the trading account piece?

BRUCE THOMPSON: The FVO switch in other income was roughly -- I believe it was $1.2 billion delta during the quarter, so that is it.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Okay. Thank you very much, guys.

BRUCE THOMPSON: We're all set. Thanks, everyone, for joining.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's program. Have a great day. You may disconnect your lines at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | c26 : Product Safety | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121031e8ah002pa
  


 HD
 Q2  2012  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
16,124 words
   PD
18 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to today's program. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions) Please note today's call is being recorded.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

KEVIN STITT, IR DIRECTOR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements. Please review slides 2 and 3 with information around forward-looking statements. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.

And with that, let me turn it over to Bruce.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Great. Thanks, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. I'm going to start on slide 4. As you all saw this morning, we reported net income of $2.5 billion for the second quarter, or $0.19 a share on a diluted basis.

You will notice at the bottom of the page we do not have any selected items that we have brought forward during this quarter. And given that the list is relatively short, we will just hit those as we go throughout the presentation within the lines of business.

If we go ahead and move forward to slide 5, we clearly believe that the results in the second quarter demonstrated our ongoing momentum on several fronts. Capital continued to strengthen and is at record levels by most metrics. Tier 1 common capital increased $2.5 billion to $134 billion and ended the quarter at 11.24% under Basel I.

We estimate that Basel III Tier 1 common equity was 8.1% at the end of June on a fully phased-in basis, based on our current understanding of both US market risk rules and international Basel III guidelines. If you recall, we had estimated we would be in excess of 7.5% under Basel III at the end of the year; so based on where we came at out at the end of the quarter we are quite pleased with the progress we have made so far.

While we increased capital, we also continued to bring down long-term debt, reducing it by $53 billion in the second quarter through both maturities as well as liability management actions that we'll get into throughout the presentation.

Likewise, we made progress on expenses, which declined $2.1 billion from the first quarter, of which approximately $900 million was due to the absence of annual retirement eligible stock-based compensation awards that impacted the first quarter.

As we said last quarter, while revenue growth correlates in large part with the health of the overall economy, the two areas that we clearly have the ability to control are our expenses as well as our debt cost, and we aggressively addressed those during the second quarter.

Asset quality also continued to improve in almost all categories. This improvement, combined with decreased levels of distressed loans, drove provision expense to be its lowest level going all the way back to the first quarter of 2007.

Interest rates did continue to be a headwind. And as you can see, the decrease in long-end rates during the quarter did negatively affect net interest income.

The European crisis and seasonality are impacting the markets-related businesses, driving those revenues lower compared to the first quarter of 2012. However, non-interest income did reflect improved results in some of our consumer businesses, which we will get into as we go through the presentation.

If you turn to slide 6, as we look at regulatory capital under Basel I, you can see that $2.5 billion of earnings along with a $27 billion decline in risk-weighted assets, or about 2.3% of risk-weighted assets, drove the capital improvement from 10.78% at the end of the first quarter to 11.24% at the end of the second quarter. If you look at the left-hand chart, since June of 2011, one year ago, our Basel one Tier 1 common ratio has increased by approximately 300 basis points.

Turning to slide 7 and providing a Basel III update, as we near the 2013 implementation period for Basel III, we have estimated our Tier 1 common equity ratio and its components to provide a better understanding of where we are relative to the Basel III guidelines that will be fully implemented at the end -- or excuse me, at the beginning of 2019. The estimate we provide here is per BIS Basel III guidelines and the final US Market Risk rules.

If we reported Basel III as of June 30 on a fully phased-in basis, we estimate the Tier 1 common equity ratio would be 8.1%. We estimate that our Tier 1 common equity would be approximately $127 billion, while our risk-weighted assets would be $1.566 trillion.

As we think about the important differences between Basel I and Basel III capital are the numerator; the differences include capital deductions related to the MSR, our deferred tax assets, and the inclusion of unrealized gains and losses on debt and equity securities recognized and other comprehensive income. As you're well aware, these items will be impacted by future changes in both interest rates as well as overall earnings performance.

We turn to slide 8 on funding and liquidity, you can see that long-term debt during the quarter was down $53 billion while our overall Global Excess Liquidity Sources only declined by $28 billion to $378 billion at the end of the quarter. At the Parent Company, long-term debt during the quarter came down by approximately $40 billion.

That $40 billion reduction was approximately $34 billion of Parent Company maturities, of which we'd call out $24 billion of that related to TLGP debt. At the end of June, all of our TLGP-related debt has been repaid.

In addition to the maturities, we brought in about $5.5 billion through liability management actions on our TRUPs and subordinated debt that are outstanding. The benefit in the quarter from that was a little over $500 million. As we look forward, those liability management actions will reduce net income -- or excuse me, will result in net interest income savings of approximately $100 million in 2012 and $180 million in 2013.

As we look at Parent Company liquidity, it remained very strong at $111 billion at the end of the quarter. And as we look at Time to Required Funding, we finished the quarter at 37 months, the highest in the company's history.

During the quarter, we didn't issue any long-term unsecured Parent Company debt, and I doubt that we will do so during the balance of 2012. What we will continue to do is to bring down long-term debt both by paying off debt at maturity as well as active liability management, consistent with our overall goals of continuing to optimize net interest income.

In fact, we have already announced calls of another $5.2 billion in both TRUPs and subdebt, which we expect to complete during the third quarter of this year. In addition to these calls, maturities of $23 billion of which approximately $15 billion at the Parent will come due during the second half of the year, which will also help reduce both long-term debt balances as well as associated interest expense.

Spend a minute on page 9 on a couple balance sheet highlights. You can see total assets were down about 1% to $2.16 trillion, while total risk-weighted assets were down over 2% to about $1.19 trillion. Our tangible common equity ratio improved 25 basis points in the quarter from 6.58% to 6.83%; and tangible book value improved by $0.35 during the quarter to $13.22 from $12.87.

We turn to slide 10 and look at net interest income on an FTE basis, it was $9.8 billion during the quarter, down $1.3 billion from the first quarter. The decrease in the quarter was primarily due to higher premium amortization expense associated with FAS 91 as well as market-related hedge ineffectiveness.

If you recall, rates rose in the first quarter this year, and that led to lower premium amortization and favorable hedge ineffectiveness that benefited NII by about $400 million in the first quarter of this year. However, lower rates in the second quarter had a negative impact of approximately $500 million, which resulted in a combined negative impact of approximately $900 million to NII from the first quarter to the second quarter.

If we back out those market-related swings, net interest income decreased by approximately $400 million during the quarter due to lower loan balances and yields and lower trading net interest income, which was partially offset by the benefit of the lower long-term debt that I just mentioned. In the near term, given long-end rates levels at the end of June, we estimate that quarterly net interest income will start at a base of approximately $10.25 billion before the impact from liability management actions.

Second-quarter Parent debt maturities and liability actions plus third-quarter announced redemptions and calls will benefit quarterly interest income by approximately $300 million, of which $60 million was captured in the second quarter of this year. To state the obvious, if rates increase from the end of June it will have a positive impact; and obviously lower rates would have a negative impact.

We turn to page 11 and look at overall loan activity. Total loans for the quarter declined by approximately $10 billion from the first quarter, or about 1%. If you look at the composition of the loan balances you can see ending commercial loans actually grew by about $4.1 billion or 1.3% from the first quarter of 2012. That growth was attributed to increases in our commercial and industrial loans and was partially offset by about a $1.4 billion reduction in commercial real estate.

It if you go to the bottom of slide 11, you can see ending consumer loans declined approximately $14 billion from the first quarter of 2012. I would like to spend a minute on that.

If you go and look at the bar chart, we have talked throughout the last couple quarters about runoff portfolios that we are looking to run off that do not produce any meaningful level of pretax income. You can see we had about $4.4 billion of that during the quarter.

In addition, residential mortgages were down about $4.4 billion. Keep in mind as we look at those mortgage portfolios, we can either invest in mortgages or securities; and during the quarter we came up in securities, a little bit down in loans. Over and above that, about $3.4 billion of loan sales that had been targeted that wrapped up at the beginning of the second quarter.

If you back those three items out and look at consumer loans on a net basis, that leaves us with about a $2 billion reduction during the quarter, or well below 1%.

On slide 12, we highlight the results of the Consumer and Business Banking segment. Earnings were $1.2 billion, a decrease from the first quarter, driven by lower net interest income, lower reserve releases, and higher litigation expense partially offset by higher non-interest income.

Non-interest income did increase from the first quarter due to a couple of factors. Consumer spending, including higher interchange; the gain on certain card portfolios; and the impact of our consumer protection products.

On slide 13, we list some key indicators for our Consumer and Business Banking for the quarter. Average deposit balance growth was strong, increasing by over 2% or $10 billion compared to the first quarter of 2012. As we continue to focus on cost and look to optimize our delivery network, our branch count came down by 57 branches during the quarter.

As far as card purchase activity, combined credit and debit card purchase volumes increased 6% from the first quarter of 2012. In addition, credit quality continued to improve as the US credit card loss rate is the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2007, while the 30-plus-day delinquency rate is at historic lows.

As we look at activity levels within this segment, we have also continued to increase our mobile banking customer base to more than 10 million customers, which is a 6% increase from the prior quarter and up 34% from the year-ago period.

We turn to slide 14, Consumer Real Estate Services reported a loss of $768 million, which was an improvement of $377 million versus the first quarter of this year. Lower revenue was more than offset by lower expenses and a lower provision for credit losses.

The home loans business within our Consumer Real Estate Services segment recorded a profit of $241 million for the quarter. First mortgage retail originations of $18 billion were up 18% over the first quarter due to lower rates and HARP refis, and in line with our retail originations a year ago.

However, as you all know, we exited the correspondent business late last year, so current correspondent originations during the quarter are virtually nonexistent versus volumes of approximately $22 billion a year ago. Even with the exit from this correspondent channel, core production income is higher than a year ago.

Results for the quarter include $395 million in costs for representations and warranties provision and $109 million of litigation expenses and expected assessments, waivers, and other costs related to foreclosure delays.

During the quarter, our MSR asset decreased by approximately $1.9 billion due to lower mortgage rates and ended the quarter at $5.7 billion. MSR hedge results for the quarter largely offset market valuation declines, and the capitalized MSR rate at the end of the quarter was 47 basis points versus 58 basis points in the first quarter and 78 basis points a year ago.

If we move forward to slide 15, as we have done before, we show some comparisons of certain metrics in our Legacy Assets and Servicing basis on a linked-quarter basis and compared to second quarter a year ago, as we continue to focus and work very hard on reducing delinquent loans and looking to find homeowner solutions. As you recall, Legacy Assets and Servicing reflects all of our servicing operations and the results of our MSR activities.

We added almost 1,700 people in the quarter, including contractors, versus 3,000 people in this area in the first quarter alone. The number of first liens serviced did decline by 5% in the quarter while the number of 60-day-plus delinquent loans dropped 2%.

As we think about that drop in 60-day-plus delinquent loans of $27,000 -- or excuse me, 27,000 loans from the first quarter, it was lower than we would have expected for two reasons. The first is a result of the DOJ AG settlement. We had holds on loans that we're attempting to modify. And in addition to that we had approximately 15,000 loans where servicing is being sold but we won't complete until this month.

Even with these delays we continue to believe we can reduce our 60-day-plus delinquencies by a net of approximately 300,000 over the next 12 months. As we have talked about before, we remain very focused on decreasing these loans, because on a lag basis it gives us the ability to further reduce costs within this segment.

On slide 16, you can see that outstanding claims have increased from the end of March from a rep and warranty perspective. Claims from the GSEs increased as a result of ongoing disagreements with Fannie Mae about what constitutes a valid repurchase request.

Through June, there has been minimal monoline activity, consistent with the past six quarters. However, as I am sure many of you saw last night, we did sign a settlement with Syncora that would have reduced our outstanding monoline claims at the end of June by approximately 20%.

On the private label side, we did have an increase in outstanding claims from $4.9 billion to $8.6 billion during the quarter. The increase in claims is primarily due to claims received from trustees that we fully anticipated at the time of the Bank of New York settlement a year ago and were largely reflected in the increase in our reserves at that time. As we look forward, we expect these outstanding claims to continue to grow as the process for ultimate resolution continues to evolve and does remain unclear.

As you look at this table, I think it's important to keep in mind that the table reflects unpaid principal amounts, as opposed to actual losses that are projected on the loan. Our reserves for rep and warrants ended the quarter at $15.9 billion, up slightly from the prior quarter. As you look out, our non-GSE range of possible loss over and above existing levels is up to $5 billion.

In Global Wealth and Investment Management, on slide 17, earnings for the quarter of $543 billion(sic-see press release "$543 million") or a pretax margin of 20% were in line with the results we saw in the first quarter of this year. Solid long-term AUM flows as well as loan growth of $2.5 billion in the quarter helped offset a 2% decline in client balances driven by lower market balances.

Loans within the segment are at record levels. And our advisor levels remained essentially flat, up just slightly from the first quarter of this year.

If we move to Global Banking on slide 18, net income decreased to $1.4 billion from the first quarter due to lower net interest income as well as lower reserve reductions during the quarter. Average loans for the quarter were down 3% as a result of the decreases in commercial real estate that I have spoken about before, as well as certain targeted loan sales.

Average deposits increased to $239 billion during the quarter as our corporate customers continue to remain very liquid. Asset quality for the quarter continued to improve substantially, as we had the largest quarterly percentage reduction since the peak in 2009 in both nonperforming assets as well as criticized balances.

As you can see on slide 19, Investment Banking fees for the quarter firmwide, excluding self-led deals, were $1.1 billion, down slightly from the first quarter as a pickup in M&A activity was more than offset by a decline in both debt and equity underwriting fees. We were ranked number 2 globally as well as in the US in net Investment Banking fees during the first half of 2012. As you look at the mix in the geography of the revenues, you can see during the quarter more than 80% of the fees were driven by activity in the US and Canada.

If we switch to Global Markets on slide 20, net income of $462 million decreased $336 million from the first quarter, reflecting lower sales and trading activity, which was partially offset by lower expenses. Total revenue, ex-DVA, was down $2.1 billion from the first quarter and down $769 million from the second quarter a year ago due primarily to the European crisis, as our clients became more risk-averse.

Expenses were down both from the first quarter, driven by lower personnel-related expense, as well as from a year ago. Average VaR was $63 million in the quarter, down from $84 million in the first quarter due to lower levels of client activity.

Continuing with the Global Markets segment on slide 21, we recorded DVA losses of $156 million in the quarter versus losses of $1.4 billion in the first quarter of this year and gains of $123 million in the year-ago period. Sales and trading revenue, excluding DVA losses, decreased $1.9 billion from the first quarter due to the deteriorating market sentiment that I just mentioned as well as a slowing US economy.

FICC revenue, ex-DVA, was $2.6 billion during the quarter, down $1.6 billion from the first quarter as we experienced decreases in almost all product categories. But would also point out that if we compare Q2 of this year to Q2 of last year, FICC revenues were basically flat in the year-ago period.

In equities, ex-DVA results decreased 26% from the first quarter as volumes remained at low levels, significantly impacting both trading as well as commission revenue.

On slide 22, we show you the results of All Other. Recall, in All Other we include Global Principal Investments, the non-US consumer card business, our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate risk management, insurance, and the discontinued real estate portfolio.

The revenue increase we saw from the first quarter was due to a lower negative valuation adjustment on structured liabilities under fair value option, and was offset in part by lower equity investment income, lower gains on sales of debt securities, and lower gains on debt and trust-preferred repurchases during the quarter. The decline in non-interest expense was mainly due to the absence of retirement eligible stock-based compensation awards that we have in the first quarter of each year.

If we turn to slide 23 and look at expenses, you can see in the upper left-hand corner in the red bars that we have had significant declines in non-interest expense from the second quarter of 2011 as well as on a linked-quarter basis from the first quarter of 2012. What we have done in the gray bars is backed out goodwill impairment as well as the annual retirement eligible comp costs that we have during the first quarter; and if you back those out, you can see once again expenses declining from $20.3 billion in the second quarter last year to $18.2 billion at the end -- or during the first quarter of this year, down to $17 billion during the current quarter. I would note, during the current quarter litigation expense embedded in that $17 billion is approximately $1 billion.

As we look at the reasons for the decline on a linked-quarter basis in non-interest expense, three major drivers -- lower incentive compensation expense; the benefits of our New BAC programs; as well as lower mortgage-related costs.

If you move to the right and look at our full-time equivalents within the employee base, you can see year-over-year, ex-Legacy Assets and Servicing, our number of employees has come down from 253,000 to 233,000 or an 8% decline.

While we're on the topic of expenses, let me spend just a moment on taxes. The tax rate for the quarter was approximately 22%, which resulted from the impact of our recurring tax preference items on the level of pretax earnings. We estimate 22% to be the rate for the rest of the year, except for any unusual items that may arise.

As we mentioned last quarter, one unusual item that we do expect to be enacted later this month is the UK tax rate reduction of 2%, which should result in a tax charge in the third quarter of approximately $800 million. And recall, due to our current DTA disallowance, that charge will not impact our Basel I or phased-in Basel III Tier 1 ratios.

We turn to slide 24. As we have talked about previously, our Phase 2 evaluations began late last year, and we completed those in the second quarter. As you know, Phase 2 focused on our corporate, commercial, and markets-based businesses.

We expect that these Phase 2 cost savings will total approximately $3 billion on an annualized basis, which would be fully phased-in by mid 2015. We did start to see some of these Phase 2 savings in the second quarter, as these initiatives aren't as interdependent as the consumer businesses in Phase 1 are.

With respect to Phase 1 we are still on track to exceed the 20% of the $5 billion in annual cost savings by the end of 2012. In total, in both Phase 1 and Phase 2 we are targeting to produce annualized cost savings of approximately $8 billion by mid 2015.

So, if you consider the lower expected FTEs and other expense reductions associated with New BAC, both Phase 1 as well as Phase 2, along with an improving delinquent mortgage loan servicing pool, we believe we can continue to realize cost savings for the remainder of the year.

We switch to asset quality on slide 25. Overall trends continue to remain very positive.

Provision expense declined $645 million to $1.8 billion. Net charge-offs decreased $430 million or 11% to $3.6 billion versus the first quarter, driven by lower consumer chargeoffs while commercial chargeoffs were relatively flat.

The reserve reduction was $1.85 billion versus $1.6 billion in the first quarter of the year. As we go forward and as credit continues to stabilize, we would expect that our overall reserve reductions will continue, albeit at significantly reduced levels. Consequently, we believe that provision expense for the next two quarters of the year will be higher than what we experienced during the second quarter of this year, but below that which we saw during the first quarter.

So with that, let me turn it over to Brian to go through how we continue to focus moving forward.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Bruce. Let me add a few thoughts before we take questions. The results you see in our numbers today show that we continue to be well positioned to keep building on the customer and client relationships that we have in our Company.

As we think about our individuals and businesses we serve as clients, many of them have addressed all the financial circumstances that they faced over the last few years and actually are in better shape than the broader economy and the statistics may reflect on a given day or week. However, there remains some uncertainty in the markets and in the minds of our customers and clients. This largely revolves around the situations in Europe, the United States, around the longer-term fiscal issues that must be dealt with. And we continue to run our Company consistent with that uncertainty in everything we do.

If you think about the path we have been on for the last couple years -- rebuilding the balance sheet, making strategic the decisions, putting our operating principles in place and living up to them, and driving our customer-focused strategy -- everything that we have done in our Company has been achieved to make our Company less complex and more streamlined and also to position our Company better to grow over time.

What this quarter continues to demonstrate is the sound financial foundation we have built, the strong balance sheet that we have built and will continue to maintain. And because of all the work, the opportunities which we are focused on is now to drive the core earnings of the Company.

As we discussed at the beginning of the year we laid out four things that we are focused upon. We told you we would focus on improving our capital levels. We told you we would focus on managing our risk. We told you we would focus on reducing our cost base. And we told you we would focus on driving core business improvement.

This quarter we saw improvement in each of these areas. On capital, we continue to make strong progress and feel good about where we stand, especially in light of our Basel III guidance. In a year's time we have gone from being behind our peers to being ahead of our peers.

If you think about the risk side, asset quality trends continue to be positive across the board. Chargeoffs continue to fall and have room to go. Provision expense is at the lowest level we've had in this Company in five years. Delinquency trends continue to improve in all our products, and criticized commercial exposures continue to fall.

As we think about the cost side we are starting to see the benefits of the New BAC program, and the results of the Phase 2 work will begin to roll through as well. This is evident in the reduction in headcount and expenses that you have seen in the numbers.

So let's remember this. As we reduce our costs we continue to invest in the opportunities in our franchise. We invest in technology, over $2 billion for $3 billion a year this year. An example of that investment is in May we completed a major technology milestone for our Company, converting our California franchise. So for the first time in our Company's history, we now have one deposit platform serving customers coast-to-coast.

In addition, we continue to invest in our technology platforms across the world, including our cash management platform that service corporate clients; and you can see the effect of that in our numbers. But also we invest in our client-facing teams. We continue to grow our small-business bankers, our wealth management teammates both in our Wealth Management business, in our FSAs, and our consumer business. And we continue to add more mortgage loan officers, as you can see in our increased production.

So we've had strong steady progress on capital risk and costs, providing a solid foundation as we focus our energy on our core business growth and the earnings power of the Company. This is the area that we continue to have work to do, as you can see in the numbers.

But we put ourselves in a position to be successful. For example, we have transformed and repositioned our core consumer business. While taking the core expenses down, we continue to drive growth.

An example of that Bruce referenced earlier is our mobile banking platform. We had 10.3 million customers this quarter in that mobile banking platform, up 600,000 from last quarter. With the usage of that platform and the payments initiated growing very, very quickly, this is a superior service model that is second to none in the industry.

In our consumer business, our deposit balances were up; new credit card accounts are up. For example we have issued 1.4 million BankAmericard Cash Rewards cards since we introduced them less than a year ago; that is 26,000 new cards a week.

Our mortgage production has increased almost 20% quarter over quarter. In a broader context, we've extended $107 billion in credit to our customers to help them participate in the economy this quarter. In the important small business area, year to date we have initiated $4 billion in new credit to small businesses.

So we continue to drive business across the board, whether it's in our Wealth Management business, As you can see in the good long-term assets under management flows, or in the banking products side we can see loans have achieved record levels. We have market coverage and penetration that is second to none in the commercial areas, whether it is large corporations or medium and small businesses. We have brought the Wall Street capabilities to those clients across our franchise.

For the institutional investor client base, you have seen in our trading business the core customer focus and how that continues to produce recurring revenue streams. And also you can see our research capabilities that our clients tell us are second to none.

So now we have tremendous opportunities to franchise, and we all know that as we continue to focus on execution. So that is what you can expect out of us over the next few quarters -- continue to build the momentum around business performance; continued focus on the fundamentals; stronger capital; capital management of risk; and reducing costs. And you will see us drive forward and deliver the results that you, our clients, customers, and shareholders, expect.

Thank you; and now we're happy to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Yes, hi. Good morning. Bruce, on the net interest income, just want to clarify your statement there. You said that the starting point should be the $10.2 billion. Is that the adjusted NII from this quarter? Is that why you are referencing the $10.2 billion?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct, John.

JOHN MCDONALD: Then from there are you saying we should add the incremental $240 million benefit from debt reductions?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Then what about the core leakage? Like this quarter you had that $400 million of core leakage from loan runoff. You didn't mention that; but do you still expect to still have that battling against the debt benefit?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I mean I think as we think about the $10.25 billion, that is the jumping off point. We clearly -- and I think you have seen it in the commercial area -- are clearly looking within the context of a reasonable risk appetite to start driving loan growth going forward. And as we have talked about before, that the runoff portfolio is not one that is particularly profitable. So as we look forward and as we have thought about that jumping off point, that is how we think about the $10.25 billion.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, just trying to think of when we -- once we jump off, is there something about the $400 million that was elevated this quarter in terms of core leakage and why that might slow. Is it just -- is loan shrinkage slowing? Is that the idea?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's the idea. I think the other thing is that -- and as I mentioned in my comments, when we talked about rates going up or down, while we are not predictors of interest rates per se, we clearly would not expect to see the decline in interest rates that we saw from the end of the first quarter to the end of the second quarter going forward.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then just finally, how would the hedge and the premium amortization work, given where the 10-year is today versus where it ended the second quarter? Would that be an incremental hurt? And would it be similar magnitude, or less?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It obviously goes both ways, both up and down. I think if you look at where the 10-year was at the end of the quarter, I believe it was at about 1.64%. So we are clearly a little bit lower today than we were at the end of the quarter.

I would expect, though, that if rates were continue to go down, I am not sure that you would necessarily see the same impact on the down side for premium amortization, because at some point it is going to stop.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So it would be down, but not by the same magnitude on the hedge effectiveness and the premium amortization?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That would be the expectation.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then on the expenses, sounds like you think the $17 billion is a good jumping off point for expenses all-in, and you expect to decline for the rest of the year from there. Is that what you said?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes.

JOHN MCDONALD: okay. Then on the Phase 2 done by 2015, am I correct that the Phase 2 stage was supposed to come faster than Phase 1? Is that still the expectation?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes. When we put out the Phase 1 expectations, we obviously said it was roughly 20% by the end of the first year. And given, as I said, a lot of the work is not as interdependent, you would expect that those Phase 2 savings to come more on a ratable-type basis as opposed to having them a little bit more back-end loaded.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. But given that those are coming by mid 2015, obviously the Phase 1 takes longer than mid 2015 to finish up.

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, because keep in mind the Phase 1 -- we had talked about a three-year period in having all of the Phase 1s done by the end of 2014. Remember, because Phase 1 was started much earlier.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Got it. Got it. Okay. So it is not from today, it is from when it started. Okay.

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Then last thing, just the operating expenses in LAS were up to $2.7 billion from $2.4 billion. Do you believe that those have peaked now? Do you see those starting to decline in the second half of this year or more in 2013?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: John, I think they are up a little bit, because remember we are now in full -- multiple things going on, Department of Justice, the lookback is in full swing and everything. The team thinks we have largely peaked, but I would expect to be slowly start to move in the right direction.

But I think the next quarter I wouldn't expect them to come down a lot just because we are still finishing up for the third and fourth quarter. But once we get through the Department of Justice lookback, once we get settlement work, once we get through the lookback there are -- a lot of expenses will come out relatively quickly, and then the core underlying loan numbers go down.

But I think we have peaked; but I don't -- I think it will take us -- as we end -- or early next year when you start to see meaningful quarter-by-quarter improvement.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So the decline from $17 billion in the back half of this year is more from the New BAC stuff, would you say?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, I think if you look at that chart on headcount, John, that Bruce showed you in the upper right-hand, corner, watch the quarter-by-quarter trend. And you can see that from a broad franchise, absent LAS, we are down 20,000 people year-over-year and 3,000 this quarter, including overcoming an increase in LAS.

So you are just seeing it through come through quarter by quarter by quarter. So we are still driven largely this year by the non-LAS; and then the LAS will help probably more in '14 -- or more in '13, excuse me.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. Hey, Brian, can you help us on slide 16? A follow-up question on the -- you said the $8.6 billion private label, that settlement last night settled 20% of that or roughly $1.7 billion?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, we said -- so, if you look at the -- that's correct. That on the monolines as you look at the dollar claims it was roughly 20%. I think, Paul, though, that the other thing to keep in mind is that when you look at the monolines, some of the exposure is included within the claims; and with respect to certain other monolines it is within the litigation number.

But you are correct that with respect to the Syncora settlement it was 20% of the outstanding claims.

PAUL MILLER: Of the monolines? Of the monolines?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, just to make sure. You said private and Bruce said monolines. But the monolines (technical difficulty).

PAUL MILLER: Yes, I had it wrong. Then the other question is, is like the private -- I mean the GSE reps and warrant putbacks continues to grow. And I agree with you that after 25 payments you shouldn't have to pay any reps and warrants.

But how is this going to be settled? Will the GSEs go to court? Have they gone to court?

I don't think you're in dialog with them. I know you probably don't want to make a comment about that. But how can we look at this as analysts? How will this be eventually settled? Will it have to go to court?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Paul, I would just reiterate your point. I think if you look back on slide 33 and look at the new claim trends that are coming in from the GSEs, it is very clear that the new trends that are building up in that bucket were back in the 2006/2007 vintages. So I think we clearly have a disagreement; and the way that it gets resolved is obviously through one of two ways.

Either they would look to bring an action, or alternatively there would be a settlement. But those would be the two ways that it would get resolved.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much. Go ahead.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Paul, just look -- if you look on those pages, you can see that there are approved repurchases going through in quarters. So there is a pattern in which things -- we are still paying Fannie today on ones that we believe we owe on.

PAUL MILLER: But you are paying on those that are less than two years of payments, right? The disagreement is coming about on those loans that has made over 25 payments; right?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, we are paying on the ones that are consistent with our past belief that we owe them the money. Leave aside the payment exactly; but it's really -- do we owe them the money or not?

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Nomura.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thank you. Quick one, the Basel III 8.1% that you showed. Correct me if I'm wrong. It includes $2.5 billion, but not the NPR? I am just curious on why you took that route and what your estimate might be using the standardized approach?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. That's correct, Glenn. I think as we look at the NPR, obviously there is a comment period; there is a lot of clarification and qualification that needs to get baked in. We have done the work and, based on our understanding, realizing it is a draft and there is going to be a lot of comments, we think the negative effect would be around 15 basis points.

But I think we're just hesitant to include it in the number until there is exact clarity and the different clarifications get made and the rules become a little bit more clear.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, that's all we really needed, just to get that range. That's helpful.

Then on the -- just curious; I don't know if I missed it in the prepared remarks. But I think the private label claims spiked by like 77%. I am not sure if that is a single private label holder, or what caused that spike.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think it's a series of holders. I think the one thing that I think is important to take a step back in, and when you think about these private label claims, is that when we set up the reserves and entered into the settlement at the end of the second quarter of last year, we obviously established both reserves in range of possible loss with the anticipation that we would see increased claim activity.

I think as you look at these private label claims I think it's important to think of a couple things. The first is they're notional amounts. The second thing is, if you look at the losses that tend to be associated with those notional amounts, they are roughly $0.60 on the dollar of what the notional amounts are.

So if you take that $8 billion number that has come in and think about it in the context of $0.60, it gets you down to a number of roughly $5 billion. And then you can take the settlement data that we've had out there, if you wanted it to look at a Gibbs & Bruns type settlement number off of collateral losses, and if you applied that to that number you get something that is well below $1 billion.

Obviously as we go through the process and set up both reserves and range of possible loss, we factor in the data that you see there.

GLENN SCHORR: Very helpful. I appreciate that. Last one is a quickie.

There was nothing in the Q, the past Q, on LIBOR. I know it's a sticky situation; but is there any -- I think you only set LIBOR in US dollars, if that is correct. And just curious if you can update us on anything related to that issue now.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I mean I think -- obviously all of you have seen the different press reports and that you are aware we're a panel bank. Not unlike others, we have received and are cooperating with the inquiries that we get from both the US and the foreign regulators.

We're also one of a number of defendants in some of the other LIBOR-related litigation. And just given the fact that these are active matters there is really not a lot more that we can say than that.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Thanks for answering the questions.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Morning. If I could just follow up a little bit on the net interest income commentary. I guess first, when you talk about the jumping off point, the $10.25 billion, I guess I am trying to think why it is not the $10.5 billion roughly, including some of the liability management; and then from there we have got to make adjustments up or down for loans, securities, and interest rate environment.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think you are saying the same thing slightly differently than we did. Which is, that the $10.25 billion is generally where we were at in the second quarter adjusted for that activity. And you're right; going forward there should be an incremental $240 million a quarter that would get added to that; and then plus or minus whatever you see in balance levels and rate movement.

So we said it slightly differently; but you're right. You can look at the way that you just articulated it as well.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then taking out the accounting nuances of premium amortization hits, the market-related hedge ineffectiveness, like as we just think about the core portfolio and some of the repricing that you might see in the securities book if rates stay here, I would assume there is just some natural drag to the core NIM, if rates were to stay here that we would expect.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think you almost need to look at it portfolio by portfolio. Obviously, the securities portfolios are subject to rates either going up or down from here. I think if you go back and look at the different card portfolios, that the actual rates on the card portfolios have been pretty sticky where they are. And obviously beyond just NIM, as you go down to the pretax line, we are benefiting from credit improvement within the Card business.

Then I would say if you look at and go through some of the commercial and corporate loan pricing, that I would characterize that environment as generally pretty stable at this point. So to your point as far as where do you see -- and is their downward pressure going forward, I think it is going to be more a function of both loan balances as well as where rates go from here, more than anything else.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then I guess, you're not the only bank, but a number of banks have kind of brushed off the low rate impact on the securities book. I know it takes time for the securities portfolio to reprice. But if we adjust your yield for some of the one-timers, it seems like it's around 2.8%; and my guess is the stuff that you are adding is 1.5% to 1.7% right now.

So hypothetically, if rates stay here, it is just a constant bleed-down to that. Right?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think what I would say is that as we look out at -- and I think if you go back to last year, we could see -- and I think as we looked out, we are pretty close, ex the FAS 91 and the premium amort, of being pretty close to where we thought NII would land. What I would say at this point is that I think, all other things being equal, in this environment obviously there is a little pressure downward on that.

I think the other thing, though, and clearly what we are looking to do and working real hard to mitigate and hopefully improve where we are from a net interest perspective, is the debt footprint. I think as you look out, at the Parent we've got roughly $15 billion of maturities during the balance of the year. And we will look to clearly offset to the extent that that pressure exists; work real hard to continue to shrink the debt footprint. Because we are paying roughly $2.5 billion a quarter on that long-term debt footprint, and obviously one of the things that is in our control is to continue to shrink that.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then just a separate topic briefly here. Obviously there is a lot of cost savings coming from New BAC, probably another $7 billion or so versus what is in the run rate now. The legacy mortgage costs could come down.

Either you said it or we have estimated maybe $8 billion annually. So these are really big numbers off of your expense base.

Are there any modest offsets like ramp-ups in investment spends, or some of the growth initiatives you've talked about in the commercial? Anything in those areas that we should be factoring in?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: You know, I think -- so think about the Markets business; so the revenues and the compensation will follow that. So be careful to always adjust that to what you think it is.

But outside of that, we're -- example, we invested about $3 billion in technology development this year. About $1 billion of that or about $750 million of that will go to New BAC implementation, which is going through the run rate. And as that comes off, we will turn that $750 million level back to the core businesses.

So embedded in that is what -- shifting money around even on something like that to help drive the business growth. So of course, if you look in core consumer, you'd see expenses are flattish when you adjust for litigation quarter-to-quarter. That is because that business is putting on loan officers and putting on FSAs and putting on preferred bankers in the preferred growth areas of the business, while in the mass-market, the retail business, we are bringing it down.

So I think you are seeing those investments go on in the business. So we are taking advantage of those opportunities. Our marketing dollars we have always -- we're careful with them, but we continue to watch them and trim them.

But we are getting rid of a lot of expense that is just coming from the overall repositioning of the Company, including real estate expenses and things like that. So there is enough room to invest.

And embedded in the way we did New BAC is two -- at least a couple years of growth capacity that we left in there to -- assuming the economy, which is bumping around at 2%, 2.5% type of growth. So I think we are comfortable that you won't see a big offset to it in that context.

When you go to the Markets business, we've built the international platform out. We will always take opportunities to add people where opportunity is. But even on the international, we have brought that back a little bit because the fees available and the trading profits available are down.

So I am not overly concerned about the reinvestment rate within the businesses. There is money there. So you should think a lot of that is only coming through today net of the implementation costs which that -- we can reposition.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning; thanks. One follow-up question on the capital. You indicated that Basel III proposals if you put them all in would be about a 15 basis point hit. Lots of caveats around the fact that we need more clarification. I guess I am wondering, is that on an advanced basis or standardized basis?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That would be on a -- assuming all model approvals. So it's going to be on an advanced basis, which I think from everything that we have seen, Betsy, I think we clearly believe that that will be our governor.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So -- then the standardized rate with the Collins Amendment, will you have to disclose whichever is lower? Would the standardized have an impact there, or no?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think from everything we are seeing at this point, clearly the advanced approach is going to be our governor. So as you look at the different rules, assume we are advanced.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Betsy, also remember -- when we are saying fully phased in, we are still deducting the entire DTA in terms of the calculations as of today. And by the time those rules will be phased in we will earn that back over time.

So there are other adjustments which, while you're making these adjustments on this side we agree with you, but the fully phased-in acts as if the rules were there fully implemented, and it is still five to six years out. So as you watch this really play out you will see some differences in that, the reported numbers, during time; and we will earn back the DTA, and that creates capital at a faster rate than [otherwise].

BETSY GRASECK: Sure. Okay. That's helpful. On page 16, just want to make sure that I understand what you're saying about the DOJ AG is holding on to the loans; and then you've got this 15,000 loans servicings sold that are going to be completed this month.

So I just wanted to make sure I understand how that is going to flow through into not only expected declines in delinquencies. That is over and above the 300,000 that you're talking about over the next 12 months? Or that is embedded within?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, the servicing sales are embedded within that net 300,000 units.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. But then the comments that you are making about the DOJ --

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, the DOJ, just as we attempt to modify some of those loans, it slowed down what would have gone through the normal process as we satisfy those obligations. So we look at that as more of a one- to two-quarter delay, not something that is permanent.

I think the thing that we just wanted to make sure of is -- we have spoken publicly before, that as we look out at over the course of the second quarter, third quarter, fourth quarter, first quarter, that we were thinking it would be a net 300,000 reduction. And we just want to make it clear that over that time frame we are not coming off that guidance.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then as we think about the LAS expenses, as you have indicated a decline in the delinquencies obviously should be driving down your LAS expenses. When I look at the servicing pools of foreclosure to liquidation or past-due to liquidation, I am not seeing that much of a ramp-up yet. Can you just give us some thoughts on what you are doing to try to ramp that up, and when you think that turn is going to happen?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, a couple things. I think the first thing is that when you look at the expense side, just to keep in mind -- embedded in these numbers are a couple things that we have absorbed in the second quarter as we go forward. First is obviously as part of the different settlements we have had to staff up, and obviously going to single point of contact adds a level of expense.

The second thing is there are a variety of obligations under the DOJ AG settlement including getting through the modifications that adds expense. And obviously there are some of the lookback and other activities that adds expense.

So as you look at those different things from an expense perspective, those are all embedded in the second quarter. It is why we believe that they will trend down based on the guidance that Brian had given before.

I think as it relates to some of the activity as far as the different buckets of getting the number of 60-plus-day delinquencies out, I don't think that there is any question that the second quarter was a little bit slower in those different buckets than what we would have expected. At the same time as we look out at -- as I said -- over the next couple quarters, as we see the different pipelines, the different servicing sales and everything else, we are still quite comfortable with what we have communicated before.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then last on the DOJ piece, a lot of that review has to be done by the end of this year. Can you tell us how much you think the expenses could come down as you move into 1Q, 2Q from those reviews being completed?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we said it will take us the rest of the year; so you will see more benefits next year in that, in terms of them coming down, plus the day-to-day work. You've got multiple things going on. You've got the DOJ; you've got the foreclosure lookback, which is running through here; and then just getting the inventory down overall.

Remember also, Betsy, there is a flow in each quarter that we are -- that you address each -- and it's 75,000, 80,000 new units come in, in the second quarter, just from the general delinquency flows of the portfolio. So all that put together, what we are saying is for the rest of this year, we are busy getting the DOJ behind us; getting the work done on the lookback and get that behind us, which is very expensive -- largely not through the personnel line, but largely through the out-of-pocket expenses to third parties, the independent foreclosure review.

And then you will see it start coming down next year more measurably because those two activities will be completed, as you said. And then the rest of the balances come down. So year-over-year, we are down 200,000 60-plus units. But remember, in that year we probably had 250,000 -- think about maybe 300,000 new units flow in from the delinquency close of the portfolio. So you have made a net gain over top of that.

And that front-end flow is slowing down as the portfolio shrinks and the asset quality gets better.

BETSY GRASECK: Sure. Got that. I just wondered if it was possible to put a number on third-party payments that you've got associated with this review that is going to end at year end.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: There is nobody working harder to get this number down than we are.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt, Evercore Partners.

ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Morning, guys. Just back on capital, so just want to -- with the capital ratios coming in above where you had targeted for the full year as well, how do we think about -- do you have a new target for the end of this year?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We have not put out a new target for this year. I think the things that I would say, as you look at capital -- but think about it both numerator and denominator. On the numerator side as you look at us generating net income and given where we are from a DTA perspective, I think generally you can think about that capital number growing in the ZIP code of 1.5 times our net income.

So you've got that benefit, and that relates to the tax position that Brian referenced. Unlike some of our other peers, it is largely in the US where we generate income.

Secondly, and I think one of the benefits that we had this quarter that -- just be aware of -- is that obviously as we continue to drive down and to sell servicing that benefits the MSR, which is a capital benefit. That MSR obviously also bounces around with rates as does OCI.

So I think as you think about the numerator, I would think about those different things. And as we look at the denominator in moving forward, I think we still believe that we've got a decent bit of runway on the denominator as we go forward, both from actual risk-reduction things that we continue to do and as we continue to reduce legacy assets, that we believe that there is upside there. And then secondly there is still a lot of model work that we are working through that we believe will provide further benefit as we go throughout the end of this year and into next year.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Should we assume that the runoff portfolios more than offset incremental growth? Or are they offsetting that? How do we think about the overall balance sheet size?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think that clearly some of the stuff that runs off, given its nature, tends to be higher on the risk-weighting spectrum. So as you think about that amount that runs off of $5 billion, some of that has decent risk-weightings associated with it.

Until we see the actual mix of what we are able to get and what comes on, it's not probably not appropriate to comment. But we are obviously mindful, as we look to grow and put assets on, of what the different Basel III risk-weightings are.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. Thank you. Then lastly just back on expenses, can you help us understand in terms of Phase 1 and Phase 2, $8 billion by mid '15? Just want to understand. Is Phase 1 now -- the $5 billion; you've realized $1 billion. Is the timing of realization on the same glide path as it had before?

I recall it was going to be coming in sooner, by the end of '13. But maybe I am not recollecting correctly.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think a couple things on that, Andrew. What we had said when we came out with New BAC 1 is that it was $5 billion on an annual basis. It would be fully phased in by the end of 2014. We said that we'd realize 20% of that by the end of 2012.

You are exactly correct that we have subsequently said that we are ahead of schedule with respect to that 20% by the end of 2012. As I mentioned earlier, as you think about the New BAC 2 and you think about that $3 billion over the course of the next three years, unlike New BAC 1 I would generally think about that in the buckets of kind of a third, a third, a third in each of the three years.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. So just to be clear on the New BAC 1, if 20% is realized in this year, how much should we think about next year? Is the bulk of that coming in next year? Is that fair?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We have not provided that guidance or split between the second and the third year.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: But just to be clear, we haven't changed what we said before. We just added a -- the 2015 comes attached to Phase 2, not Phase 1.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jefferson Harralson, KBW.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: I was going to follow up on some -- on the rep and warranty question. Given that we are not in dialog with Fannie and that the private labels seem to be trying to get their suits in before statute of limitations hit, should we expect the same types of outstanding claims increase next quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think at this point we are not going to predict what these claims are or are not. Because I think you have to keep in mind that, first, they tend to be lumpy; and the second thing is that I don't think we want to confuse claims that come in versus those that are valid that have the ability to come in.

But I think as you think about it and you think about when the underwriting and the originations with respect to these slowed down as we got into 2008, we are clearly almost four years into that. So I think generally speaking your point has some merit; but we are not going to predict exactly what we would expect these to be.

Besides that we expected those to increase; we continued to see some of those increases in the second quarter; and we will see some more going forward.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: All right. Just on a follow-up, is it possible -- I am trying to frame this $6 billion of increase in the outstanding claims. You give us the net claims every quarter.

Is it possible to look at the total claims that you've gotten over this cycle and compare that $6 billion of new claims to the total claims? Is it -- if you've gotten, I don't know, $60 billion of claims, it's a different -- or $600 billion of claims, it is a different growth rate.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think if you look at 32 and 33 you can see that we paid out $13.6 billion, on page 32 of the slides, through this quarter. That has actually been paid on resolution of these types of things.

Then we have our reserves established for $15.9 billion. Then if you look -- I don't have it right here in front of us; but if you look at this chart from page 33, we have been producing this now for better than a year and a half. So you can go back and see the claims flows literally quarter by quarter going back pretty far.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: All right. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. A couple of things. Just on the rep and warrant, Bruce, I understand the idea that you set up the reserve contemplating a lot of this. What should we look at from our stand -- vantage point out here to get the sense that you would need to add to the reserve?

In other words, what would have to happen in order for that to -- for you to add to them?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think you almost need to go through the three different buckets. We obviously, as we have said before, believe that the work and the way that we have reserved for the GSEs is based on our obligations; and we continue to believe that we are satisfying those obligations with respect to the GSE bucket.

I think second if you go to the monolines, the deal that we referenced, Syncora, that we signed up that got done today was in the context of our reserves. So I think in the context of getting that one behind us it was where the reserves were.

So I guess given that a fair bit of the monoline stuff that is out there relates to litigation, obviously if something from a litigation perspective was different than what we had assumed, that would affect it.

Then I think, third, if you go down to the private label stuff, you've got two different buckets of liability.

You've got one from the rep and warrant perspective; and obviously if there was different behavior from a claims perspective than what we have assumed and an outcome that we didn't anticipate, we'd have to adjust at that point if the experience was different than what we had assumed.

Then obviously, the fourth piece of it is that there is securities litigation that is out there that we touch on as far as looking at range of possible loss within our litigation bucket. So I think at this point we've got experience. We've got the different buckets, and we've laid out what those are. And obviously changes from what our assumptions and what are experience is, is what would change that.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. On the comment that you made about the retail banking platform, now that you're actually on one platform is it more likely that you will have a new retail banking offering and adjust pricing and try to recapture some of the revenue that has been lost over the last several years? Any thoughts that you can give on that some of that, Brian?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's a combination of everything. But if you look, we have passed through all the different regulatory impacts now and you can see that -- if you look at the consumer segment you can see the revenues have stabilized in terms of the fee revenues and started to grow really with activity at this point. Because you have now had the impact of the overdraft, and the interchange, and everything through the quarterly results.

So the team is working on a combination of all the factors, driving revenue from the standpoint of loan originations and things like that off the core portfolio; bringing down expenses, that is the 57 branches or whatever we reduced this quarter. And if you look at the people, the headcount in this business is down from a high point at one point of 100,000 down to say 70,000, to give you a sense; and so we continue to reduce that.

So it's a combination of all things. So we continue to do it.

A new offering, new account structures is something we have been testing. We have been clear about that. We haven't made any decisions there, and we continue to look at it.

But interesting enough, this mobile platform growth really has changed some of our thinking there. Because for example, we send out 20-odd-million texts a month to people telling them their balances are low. The initiation of payments off the mobile platform is about $1 billion a week now, up dramatically year-over-year and continues to grow. It is just a much more efficient and frankly strong service model.

So I think it is going to be -- it continues to be a combination of expenses and revenue and activity. I'd tell you that the core sales checking accounts were strong this quarter. The account closures by our customers the lowest that they have been since 2007, so the net attrition rates are down. And we keep driving all those different things.

So I wouldn't lean it's any one thing. But the platform, really the Northwest and the California, because people forget we did a Northwest, gives us a much more cheaper platform, obviously, but also a much more capable platform that we can change things quick, we can get it into the system.

And we continue to look at account structures and making sure we balance the rates we charge with the value we give.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay, thanks. Just one quick follow-up, Bruce. I wasn't sure if you said this already; but did the DTA go down in the quarter, or what happened there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It went down by a small amount.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Small amount? Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the question. My question is on LAS, first off. The staffing levels there, it seems as though the FTE definition that you guys use in your LAS disclosures bounces around a little bit.

I was hoping you could maybe give some clarity on that, and maybe provide some consistent quarter-over-quarter disclosure over an extended period of time so we could get a better handle on exactly staffing levels there and what is moving. Because it doesn't seem like it is just the FTEs plus third-party. Can you help out there a little bit?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have been consistent in the FTEs, the way we count the FTEs. So you can see that.

What you -- sometimes you hear numbers that are 42,000 and the 55,000. The 55,000 is the contractors. We have about 10,000 to 12,000, 13,000 contractors working at a given time that are not on our payroll, that we obviously pay through the expense line.

We will talk about 50,000-plus people working on it, but the FTE numbers have been calculated consistently. And we can -- if you look on page 15 you can see it is up 7,000 employees, FTE equivalents, from the second quarter of 2011 to 2012.

But the contractor one moves around a little bit based on the ebbs and flows of what we are doing. And you should see those come down.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Yes, but last quarter in your deck you had FTEs at 38.1 and now you're at 42.4; but you say you're only up 0.3. So I guess I don't understand that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes. In the last quarter it was adjustment to -- there is a group that is in our core consumer business that does the good mortgage servicing before collections. And we have moved some people around, so there might be a little bit of noise there. But from a core activity level, you are seeing this thing is really running about 55,000 people equivalents -- 42,000 with us, 13,000 with other people.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. I guess I am just -- it would be helpful to see it consistently disclosed. Because I mean, what I am getting at here is starting at about third quarter of last year indications were that LAS staffing was at a near peak, but we have actually seen the staff levels go up every quarter since.

I might be not remembering this correctly, but I seem to recall you saying previously that LAS staffing should start to go down in the back half of 2012 previously. And now it seems like you are calling for those declines to be held off until 2013. So what I am getting at is, can you give us a sense of your confidence level of these cost projections and maybe how much we should bake in there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Okay. Let me just make sure. With respect to the staffing levels and what you are looking at, what was adjusted this quarter was the -- within Legacy Assets and Servicing, there is some non-distressed servicing that is in there, that when we reported this segment we adjusted the people that do some of that non-distressed servicing in the numbers. That is reflected in the numbers, and we have gone back and adjusted those numbers to make sure that it is consistent on a lookback basis, so you've got apples-to-apples within these numbers. Okay?

The second question, as it relates to the staffing levels, I think what we have said this quarter with respect to the overall expense base in staffing is that we are wrapping up the different parts of the different DOJ AG and other settlements. And we would start to expect both the people and the expense to go down probably more towards the latter part of the year with significant momentum in 2013.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. I get it, believe me; the business has been really difficult and I am sure it has been really hard to manage. So I can certainly appreciate the challenges there.

I guess it is just -- a key part of the story is a lot of this expense improvement. And some of the commentary around improvements in 2013, it seems as though it has been -- that is going to be sort of slow, whereas you get a more substantial pickup in 2014. I think, Brian, you have made some of those references in some of the investor presentations where I've heard.

So could you give us maybe a bit more? Is it possible to get a bit more specific on what you are talking about there?

Are we talking about somewhere in the ballpark of like a 10% to 15% reduction in that $8 billion ex-litigation number? Or is it more like a third? Is it -- what are we thinking about for 2013 and then 2014? Is it possible?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have given you an overall viewpoint that says that the amount of 60-plus-days delinquent loans will ultimately get in to, say, the 300,000 range. That will take us the rest of this year and next year to get it down into those ranges and probably into '14.

For that we are saying that takes about $500 million of quarterly costs versus the $2.8 billion you have in here today. So that is what we have given.

The pace of this even six months ago, for example, in our foreclosure lookback, we just got the final rules recently about how to finish the work, and that was months after we expected. So a lot of this is based on -- in that case we had to get the final rules and actually go do the work.

And the Department of Justice, the settlement came through in early April, the final settlement. A lot of people believed it would be done a few months before that, because it was largely worked out. And we couldn't start the work until the settlement was finalized.

So some of these things move around a month or two. But in the grand scheme of things, the key is to get this from the $2.8 billion level to the $500 million level.

And they are in there -- all the people costs. And in there on top of that is some of the -- effectively each quarter the one-time adjustments to the lifetime expectation for foreclosure delays and things like that that we adjust on.

But I think you will see this come down relatively quickly once we break through the two big bodies of work, and then -- being the Department of Justice settlement work and the lookback. And then after that, it is really scheduled against -- as the work goes down, the people will come down.

And we are working as hard as we can to get it down. So I think any adjustment in view of timing has largely been just to make sure we do it right. Because the number one thing is to do this right for the consumers, continue to modify the 1-million-plus loans we have modified, continue to work the short sale process and other alternative resolutions, continue to do all the work under all the various programs that are there now and get added. But it is always subject to making sure we do it right, and we are not going to bring the headcount down until we know we have got the job done well.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Right. Yes; no, as I said I get that it has been a challenging environment, so that's probably been real difficult. Last, not to beat a dead force here, but the putback claims. Just on the GSE side, because I get it that private label, right; that is going to be solved by the courts and probably pretty difficult. But at least with GSEs there is a lot more history.

When you look at some of the Fannie and Freddie filings, BofA and Countrywide really stand out on the pending and disputed claims. You all are about 6.5 times your closest peer, even though the repurchase levels are about in-line and the withdrawal claims are only about 1.8 times your closest peers. So it seems as though these disputes are a BofA-specific issue.

What gives you confidence that you going to be able to buck the trend of the entire industry? Can you help us out on that front?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think all we can really say at this point, quite frankly, is the way that we look at this and the reserving is based on our view of what our understanding agreements are. We have said that there are disagreements that are out there. And I am not sure there is a lot more to say than that.

I think the only other thing that I would say, though, is that as you look out at and you look at these agreements, and you go back, we were able on a lookback basis to get a deal done with Freddie Mac on a global basis to resolve all the Countrywide claims prior to the end of 2008. So I think that the way we are going about it and looking to solve these challenges has not changed a bit.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think you also have to remember that if you go look at 32 and think through the categories where there is resolution on. And so the claims are really coming through, there is obviously disputes on, in the sense that the private label/CFC issues have been resolved with Bank of New York for over a year now, and we are waiting for the court process to take place as Bruce mentioned on the Countrywide.

So I think the issue is the volumes we would have are not coming through -- big parts of the production at the time, the 2004 to 2008 production, because they are settled. And monolines the same thing.

So obviously the people that -- specifically Fannie -- that we are going to have the biggest argument with are the people still submitting claims.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Right. Okay, and then the last one, just on Wealth Management. Can you get a sense for net new assets and what they were and what they have been over the last years? Because it seems as though that is not a disclosed number anymore. It would be really helpful to get that figure.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Which number are you looking for?

BRENNAN HAWKEN: The net new assets in the brokerage business, not necessarily asset management, but Wealth Management.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We will get Lee to get back to you on that. You can see the long-term AUM flows, which has been driving the business to be more of a -- in the financial plans of the -- with the customers and clients, the AUM flows are where we focus as we move from the transaction-based to the more money-managed basis. You can see those flows have been strong. We will get to the net new assets side.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Sure. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer & Co.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Yes, good morning. Syncora's press release cited that they received $375 million in the settlement. And you said that it was about 20% of the $3.1 billion, which is a bit more than $600 million. So that implies a settlement rate at about $0.60 on the dollar. I wonder, is there anything that would make Syncora a better or worse exposure than the rest of the monolines claims?

Then secondly, why would the settlement rate on the private label be radically lower than what it is on the monolines?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think you have to be careful, Chris. I can assure you that the rate at which it was paid was not anywhere near the number that you quoted. The reason is, keep in mind with the monolines -- as we have talked about, you have got a couple different buckets that go into what you think a monoline exposure is, that drives that number significantly lower than what you just quoted.

The first is there are claims that come in that monolines have submitted. At points in time monolines have stopped submitting claims because they believed that they are going the route of litigation.

Then third, over and above those two buckets, you have things that may happen in the future that have not been realized or worked through. So when I quoted the fact that the Syncora settlement was 20% of those claims, you should not in any way extrapolate out that that is the payment percentage.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Not sure I understood that, but I will follow up. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi. Just a real big-picture question. What inning are we in from the negative impact from this very low interest rate environment? You had one bank say it was pretty much done; they are not going to have a whole lot more negative impact. You had another large bank saying -- well, it is more than half done, it is mostly done. And a third bank has said -- well, actually it's going to hurt a lot more if rates stay here.

So where do you stand on that question? And specifically I note this quarter the deposit rates only declined by 2 basis points, whereas the yield on loans were down 11 and commercial loan yields were down 17.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I would say a couple things on that, Mike. The first thing I will address is just your last question, which is that where do you -- we continue to look at and given this rate environment to be very disciplined with respect to what we do on the deposit pricing. As rates persist we will continue to revisit that, realizing that when you get to the levels that we are at with respect to deposit pricing that there is only so much further that you can go.

I think with respect to the rest of your question, I think you need to split the rate question really into two pieces. The first piece is that as you look at loans spreads and what we are seeing from a loan spread perspective, that on those things that are floating-rate based, the spreads at this point and some of the new origination spreads that we have seen -- that the spreads on those have stabilized. So I think as it relates to -- is there more downside, or are you concerned more on rates with respect to that? At this point I think we feel okay with that.

The last piece is where it is with respect to those fixed-rate instruments. We have been very careful at this point to manage and to manage the duration such that we don't have OCI issues with respect to Basel III. If you look at on a swapped basis with respect to duration on the securities portfolio, we are just over a year on a swapped basis, realizing it is a couple more years if you didn't take into account swaps.

So I think as we look at it, the piece that probably has some element of risk over time is if these rates stay at this point, the overall securities portfolio. But I think a lot of what we do at this point, the low rate environment is baked into it.

MIKE MAYO: I had just one follow-up. I am looking at page 10 of the supplement, and I am sure you know these numbers. Total commercial yield from the first quarter to the second quarter went from 3.52% to 3.35%. That is a 17 basis point decline in the commercial loan yield.

So is there noise there? What gives you such good confidence that that decline is pretty much done?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think if you go into it if you look at where are the majority of the noise came in, and if you look at -- there are two pieces that move. The first and probably the most significant was -- and we disclosed this back in the first quarter -- we had some gains on the overall leasing portfolio that settled up during the first quarter. So if you look at that -- if you look at the number you can see the leasing portfolio came in by about 100 basis points.

That is clearly something as we look out at that we don't expect to repeat. So I think as you look at those two buckets, that is the reason, both.

So if you look at US commercial it was down a little bit. Commercial real estate was effectively flat. Commercial lease is where you saw the biggest change.

And on the non-US commercial stuff where you will see that number bounce around a little bit is if we are doing trade finance, it tends to have a little bit lower rate than some of the straight-up corporate stuff. But I would say as we look out at and look at the new origination spreads that we are seeing on the base business, we really didn't see any erosion of spreads that we booked with respect to newer loans.

MIKE MAYO: So that jumping off point of what -- would you say $10.2 billion of NII, you expect that to be flat or higher then?

BRUCE THOMPSON: What we have said at this point is that we think that is the jumping off point. We mentioned the benefit that we have from the long-term debt footprint; and then we will obviously need to see activities during the quarter.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Mike, to back up to the broader level, think about two or three things. One is the low rate environment has been impacting us; and that is why one of the issues about you have to go out to the cost side and get the cost structure in line, because the low interest rate environment has affected revenues.

Secondly, remember in these runoff portfolios we are giving up net interest margin gross yield. But if you look at our net interest margin minus chargeoffs, you will see that it is actually growing year-over-year, second quarter last year to second quarter this year. So what is running off is costing us money or not contributing a lot to the pretax line, as Bruce said.

And the third is we continue to have benefits that we think are unique to this franchise because of the amount of acquisition debt that was built up and the long-term debt size. Continue to drive that down. So as you watch the balance sheet shift across time, the non-interest-bearing sources, deposit-funding sources become more and more -- a higher and higher percentage, of which they are already high, of the total funding.

If you think about it very simply, we pay about $0.5 billion a quarter for all the deposit funding, $1 trillion. And we pay about $2.5 billion, round numbers, a quarters for the $300-odd-billion of long-term debt.

So the effectiveness of moving that down, because we just don't need the size, we have -- because we are running off assets which aren't yielding as much, is very beneficial going forward. So we are fighting a trend. This is a trend that has held on longer than most people expected; but we are fighting with all the arrows in our quiver that we have.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Matt Burnell, Wells Fargo.

MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. Just an administrative question. You noted that your tax guidance for the remainder of the year is around 22% excluding the effects of the UK tax. Last quarter you noted that you thought the tax rate was going to be about 30%. I am just curious as to what is driving the decline in the tax rate guidance.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I believe and I could -- I would have to go back and look. I think if you look at it and what we are saying now is that the 22% includes the different preference items that we have, based on where we are today. And as we look out at, that 22% is a good number, as it relates to what we would expect before, as we have said, adjusting for what we would see coming out of UK tax.

MATT BURNELL: Right. Again another, one final administrative question. You mentioned about $300 million in benefits from your actions reducing higher-cost debt. $60 million of that was recognized in the second quarter. Then on page 8 of the slide deck, you say that there is about $100 million of savings from those actions in 2012; another $180 million expected in 2013.

Is that $300 million number you are talking about the equivalent of the $280 million in combined savings in '12 and '13?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No. We gave you the information on the liability management actions to give you a sense as to the benefit that they would provide. So the way to think about those savings that we talked about in the liability management is they are embedded and a $300 million quarterly benefit, of which $240 million will be incremental in the third quarter this year relative to the second quarter this year.

MATT BURNELL: Okay. That's helpful. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: I'm showing that we have no further questions at this time.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you, everybody. We will look forward to talking to you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's program. Have a great day. You may disconnect your lines at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | c26 : Product Safety | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120801e87i000o7
  


 HD
 Q1  2012  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
15,804 words
   PD
19 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's program. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during our Q&A session. (Operator Instructions). Please note day's call is being recorded.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Please go ahead.

KEVIN STITT, DIRECTOR OF IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.

These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.

With that, let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Kevin. Before Bruce discusses the results in detail I just want to take a minute to provide some additional thoughts on the quarter.

On our last call, I listed the following areas of focus for our Company during 2012. We wanted to focus on our capital levels. We wanted to focus on our risk. We wanted to focus on the cost base in the Company and we also needed to drive the core business improvement.

In the first quarter of 2012, we have made progress in each of these areas. As you can see, our capital and liquidity are at record levels in our Company. Our credit costs continue to decline and our cost structure is coming down and many of the business customer and profit metrics have improved.

So first from a capital perspective, we entered 2012 with increasing strength in our balance sheet position. We managed for the CCAR test and made significant progress related to our capital ratios again in this quarter. Our Tier 1 common ratio reached 10.78% at March 31, 2012. We continue to make progress on capital at a faster pace than we expected.

When we turn to risk, our credit costs fell to the lowest level in nearly five years. Reserve levels cover 3.6% of our loans and leases and 2 times our current level of annualized credit losses.

The improvement in delinquent and nonperforming assets bodes well for further improvement in net losses as we go forward. As you know, we continue to take opportunities to reduce the remaining legacy assets in the capital markets business and we believe we have a strong litigation in rep and warranty reserves in the mortgage area.

On a day-to-day basis, the average value at risk or VAR is lower than our trading business has been in some time yet we managed to make similar levels of sales and trading revenue excluding DVA as we did last year.

The continued cost reduction remains at the forefront of our thinking at Bank of America. We continue to streamline our Company. Our priority is to make our Company work better for our customers, our teammates, and our clients, and in the process, reduce cost.

As Bruce will show you later, we are achieving those results. We are achieving good results in bringing down expense across our various business lines, showing good progress on trends over the past year. One area we continue to work is our Legacy Assets and Servicing area. Personnel costs there are beginning to peak after adding significant resources over the past several months to implement the single point of contact in other mortgage programs.

We expect these Legacy Assets and Servicing costs to come down in the second half of 2012. Just for your reference, in the first quarter 2012, the expense in Legacy Asset and Servicing was $3.3 billion.

As those costs increase, we passed a milestone. We have now modified more than one million mortgages. In addition to the modifications, the paces of short sales, [fees] (inaudible) and other alternative resolutions continues to make progress and continues to quick helping us reduce our delinquent loans over all.

For the rest of our Company, we saw continued improvement in our costs. We expect to continue to achieve significant cost savings over the next 18 months, consistent with our new VAC goals. We are finalizing new VAC Phase II as we have told you and we will discuss those expected outcome soon.

As you are well aware, headcount drives our operating costs in the end and we expect to see continued progress in this area going forward. This quarter we added more than 2500 associates in LAS, as I spoke about earlier. But overall, as we work throughout the Company and cost manage it in every other area we reduced our overall headcount including those additions in LAS by over 3000 FTEs. That's on top of a reduction of 7000 FTEs plus last quarter.

At the same time as we are reducing our costs, we continue to invest in our franchise and support the economy. During the quarter to help move the economy along, we extended more than $100 billion in loans to individuals and companies of all sizes showing the fifth consecutive quarter of average commercial loan growth to corporate and commercial clients.

We have added client-facing teammates in selected growth areas in our Company. We've hired 100 small-business bankers in this quarter to further support our small business customers bringing the total of small-business bankers since the program began to over 700.

In small business lending, we continue to exceed all the goals we set for small business lending including the goals we announced last fall in cooperation with the administration and small business administration. In fact, we're up 17% this quarter versus last quarter, first quarter of last year.

We've added 200 financial advisors to our team in the first quarter. As the quarter progressed, we added mortgage loan officers to focus on our direct to consumer mortgage business.

As we think about the consumer business as an area we continue to work and we've spoken about, we continue to respond to changing preferences to optimize our distribution network while investing where appropriate. This quarter we added 0.5 million mobile banking customers during the quarter. That's about 40,000 week, a pace that continues. We now have more than 9.7 mobile banking-enabled customers.

In our industry-leading online banking area, we added another 0.5 million active accounts this quarter, bringing us to over 30 million active accounts.

In addition through our ATM capabilities, we passed a milestone with half the deposits of Bank of America going through our ATMs that used to go through our branch platform.

So overall, our customers continue to do more with us through all the channels including traditional branches, mobile, online, and ATM but they're using the branches less and that's why we are fine-tuning our delivery network.

We continue to align our banking center network to our customer needs. This includes reduction of consolidations, which there's a net reduction of 51 this quarter. That is part of the reduction we've spoken to you about of 750 branches over the next couple of years.

In select instances, we will consider branch sales in markets where growth potential and size don't meet our goals and at the same time, we continue to expand in markets with high density where new locations can generate good results and we continue to renovate centers in all the places we do business.

We have continued to use our leadership positions to deepen our relationship with our customers and clients across all our franchise. In the consumer business, we opened 800,000 new credit card accounts this quarter, half of which even with our focus on credit quality were opened in our branches.

Our innovative Bank of America card Cash 1-2-3 card introduced only eight months ago now has more than one million cards outstanding and has achieved great customer acceptance.

In our brokerage and wealth management area, we continue to make good progress. Brokers accounts and assets are growing nicely. In our [managed] self-serve area, they've grown nicely year-over-year. But most importantly, at our industry-leading capabilities in Merrill Lynch Wealth Management and US Trust, we have seen solid long-term assets under management flows this quarter, some of the best we've seen in a while.

These -- our affluent and wealthy consumers at Bank of America are served by the best team in the business. For the fourth consecutive year we have more financial advisors on Barron's top 1000 list than any other firm.

When we turn to our commercial clients, we saw higher utilization of lines of credit as our commercial customers continue to take advantage of opportunities as the economy continues to grow slowly. Our business of serving clients in our global banking segment and our ability to offer integrated solutions from lending, investment banking, treasury service, in all the areas these clients need services is continuing to produce strong and steady profits and we remain -- maintain our number two investment banking position on fees.

For institutional investor clients, we are encouraged to see a rebound in capital markets activity. We had more than $5 billion in sales and trading revenue this quarter excluding DVA and that's a strong quarter. Recorded positive trading related revenue every single day in the quarter and this quarter represents the highest ever fixed income results in our Company's history. This team did a good job of continuing to build our customer debt, even in the uncertainty of the world's economic events over the past couple of quarters.

So let me close with this before I turn it over to Bruce. The momentum around our strategy continues to accelerate. We still have lots of work to do, but the team is focused and encouraged by these results. We are going to stay focused as we said in the first quarter call; we are going to stay focused on the fundamentals this year and continue to drive forward the results for our clients, customers, and you, our shareholders.

With that, let me turn it over to Bruce.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Great. Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone. I would just echo Brian's comments about the progress that we feel that we made throughout the quarter and would look to kick off the presentation starting on slide 4 for the investor presentation.

As we look at that and think about the quarter, I would note several key takeaways, some of which Brian referenced. We obviously reported $0.03 a share in earnings but when you look at and consider that number, realize that includes negative valuation adjustments of $4.8 billion pretax or $0.28 a share after tax, which is the result of our credit spreads tightening significantly throughout the quarter.

In addition to those results, we created significant levels of both capital and liquidity throughout the quarter and each of those metrics are at record levels as we ended the first quarter of 2012.

As we look at the operating results, Brian referenced capital market activities and the capital markets generally improved throughout the quarter, driving sales and trading results that were significantly above the fourth quarter of 2011 and in line with what we saw during the first quarter of 2011 once again excluding DVA. Outside of the sales and trading business, all of our business segments reflected improved profitability during the first quarter of this year relative to the fourth quarter of last year.

Credit quality continued to improve significantly. Provision expense at $2.4 billion for the quarter was the lowest that we've seen since the third quarter of 2007.

We have talked a lot about expenses. Expenses did decline from the fourth quarter of 2011 despite the fact that we had higher revenue-related incentives as well as the annual retirement eligible compensation of costs that occur during the first quarter of every year.

Lastly, I would highlight we capitalized during the quarter on the ability to capture significant gains on some of our subordinated debt and preferred securities; $1.2 billion pretax during the quarter.

If we turn to slide 5 where we give a little bit more income statement information, you can see the buildout of the net income of $700 million or $0.03 a share. The one thing I would highlight when you look at the income statement that the pretax pre-provision number of $3.3 billion does not add back the $4.8 billion of FVO or DVA that we had during the quarter or for that matter any of the other selected items which I will go through now.

As we look at things during the quarter that benefited net income, I referenced the debt and trust preferred repurchases. In addition to that $1.2 billion during the quarter, we had $800 million of gains both within our private equity portfolio as well as on the gain on sale of fixed income debt securities.

On the negative side, I referenced the $4.8 billion of FVO and DVA. In addition to that, we had $900 million of annual retirement eligible compensation costs that once again as you recall we incur each year during the first quarter of the year and roughly $800 million of litigation expense, the majority of which was not mortgage-related.

We turn to slide 6 and look at capital, we obviously built significant levels of capital from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of last year when we took our Basel I Tier 1 ratio from 8.65% to 9.86%. We had another very strong quarter from a capital accretion perspective, growing capital from 9.86 to 10.78%.

If you look at the components of that increase, four buckets that we have laid out here, the first roughly 7 basis points in capital by virtue of the fact that employees were paid a portion of their 2011 compensation in stock. The gains on repurchases of subdebt and trust preferred exchanges and repurchase, as I referenced, were 13 basis points of capital. And most significantly during the quarter, risk weighted assets declined by $64 billion during the quarter, which contributed 52 basis points to our benefit in our common ratio.

As you think about that 52 basis points of improvement, think about that in the context two-thirds of that represented pure exposure reduction and roughly one-third of that represented declines as we continued to analyze, refine, and optimize our capital calculations. Then lastly, about 20 basis points of capital from earnings.

As you look at that earnings, realize that the FVO piece of the charge that I referenced does not negatively impact or positively if it goes the other way, regulatory capital. As a result of this capital accretion that we have seen during the quarter, we have previously given you guidance that we would expect to be at 7.25 to 7.5 of Tier 1 common under Basel III on a fully phased in basis at the end of 2012. Based on the improvement we saw this quarter, we are very comfortable increasing that guidance to above 7.5% at the end of 2012.

If we move from capital to liquidity on slide 7, you can see that during the quarter our excess liquidity sources across the Company grew by $28 billion to an all-time record of $406 billion at the end of the first quarter. As we look at parent company liquidity, it increased to $129 billion during the quarter, which is up $4 billion while at the same time on a net basis our parent company debt was reduced by $5 billion.

Importantly as we talk about liquidity, we quote a time to funding metric. That time to funding metric increased to 31 months during the first quarter and with $129 billion of parent company liquidity, we are in great shape to address the $34 billion of parent company maturities we have during the second quarter, which includes the remaining $24 billion of debt associated with the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program or TLGP.

As you recall, we have worked hard. We no longer -- or have very little parent company or broker-dealer short-term unsecured funding and as we look out at the balance of the year, we issued just over $5 billion of debt during the first quarter. Based on what we are seeing now we clearly expect that to be less during the entirety of the remainder of the year.

Moving to slide 8 to look at certain balance sheet items, I referenced the reductions in risk-weighted assets. You can see that we had about an $8 billion increase in deposits during the quarter. Our tangible common equity ratio remained very strong. It's 6.58%. Tier 1 common grew by just under $5 billion to $131.6 billion which contributes to the 10.78 Tier 1 common ratio I just referenced.

Tangible book remained relatively flat at $12.87 and you can see below, our allowance continues to cover our annualized charge-offs by about 2 times and our liability for reps and warrants remained relatively flat at $15.7 billion.

If we move away from capital liquidity, net interest income on slide 9, net interest income increased sequentially from the fourth quarter to the first quarter by about $100 million. As you look at and think about that change, we benefited from about $500 million of less premium amortization and hedge in effectiveness. In addition, $100 million improvement by virtue of lowering our rates paid on deposits as well as the contraction of our debt footprint. And offsetting those benefits were reductions from declines in consumer balances and yields of about $400 million.

We turn to slide 10. We have laid out here the changes that we have made from a business segment reporting changes. I'm not going to go through this. We have laid it out here. We filed an 8-K last week that gave you a lot of information as to what those numbers look like with those changes and while we apologize for the additional work that it creates, I would note that it very much aligns our business segments with the way that we manage both our customer relationships as well as the way that we manage the overall Company.

On slide 11, we highlight the results of our Consumer and Business Banking segment. Earnings for the quarter were $1.5 billion, which is an increase of 17% from the fourth quarter and was driven by both lower expenses as well as lower provision.

From a deposit perspective, average deposits were up 1.4% or more than $6 billion during the quarter. The rates that we paid on those deposits declined during the quarter to 20 basis points.

As we look at credit and debit card purchase volume, volume had a seasonal decline of 6% from the fourth quarter but increased 4% from a year ago.

In US credit card, new accounts grew by 19% from the first quarter a year ago. I would note that as we look at the US credit cards, there's been a significant change in the way that we open new accounts. We are very focused on leveraging our franchise and online networks while scaling back what we do from a direct-mail perspective.

Average loans during the quarter declined $5.6 billion from the fourth quarter due to seasonality, divestitures that occurred at the end of the fourth quarter, as well as the continued runoff of our non-core portfolio.

Lastly within the card space, credit quality continued to improve. US credit card losses improved for the 10th consecutive quarter and the 30-plus day delinquency rate declined for the 12th consecutive quarter.

Turning to slide 12 and looking at our consumer real estate services area, it reported a loss of $1.1 billion during the quarter. That loss was driven by the cost of managing delinquent and defaulted loans in the servicing portfolio combined with costs associated with managing other legacy mortgage exposures.

The home loans business which is reported within the Consumer Real Estate Services segment did record a profit of $115 million for the quarter. First mortgage originations of $15 billion were down from the fourth quarter due to our exit from the correspondent mortgaging business. Importantly though, while our production volume was the lowest that we've seen in five quarters, production income before the negative impact of reps and warrants was the highest that we have seen in five quarters.

Our results for the quarter include $282 million in costs for reps and warrants primarily related to the GSEs; $313 million of litigation expenses; $410 million for expected assessments and waivers costs associated with our servicing operations; as well as overall increased cost related to our servicing operations.

As you look at the MSR, our MSR asset increased by $211 million during the quarter driven by higher rates and partially offset by borrower payments and model changes and ended the quarter at $7.6 billion. MSR results net of hedge were positive by approximately $200 million in the first quarter and as you look at our capitalized MSR rate at the end of the quarter, it was at 58 basis points versus 54 basis points in the fourth quarter and 95 basis points a year ago.

If you turn to slide 13, some data that we want to talk about within our Legacy Assets and Servicing area that's within the CRES segment. You can see on a linked-quarter basis as well as compared to the first quarter of a year ago, we continue to work hard to reduce the number of delinquent loans and find homeowner solutions. Keep in mind Legacy Assets and Servicing now reflects all of our servicing operations and the results of our MSR activities.

During the quarter, we added more than 6000 people, both employees as well as third-party staffing in this area in the quarter alone. As we look at the results and as we look to drive down both the number of loans serviced as well as the number of delinquent loans, the number of first lien loans service dropped 3% in the quarter and more importantly, the number of 60-day plus delinquent loans dropped 6%.

Once again, we are very focused on driving the number of 60-plus day delinquent loans down because as we drive those down, it will give us the ability to start reducing costs within the segment.

In Global Wealth and Investment Management on slide 14, earnings of $547 million more than doubled the results in the fourth quarter of 2011 as higher transactional activity and market levels prove higher revenue while both expenses and credit costs were down for the quarter.

Pretax margin for the quarter was strong at 19.8%. Client balances up 4.8% from the fourth quarter due to higher market levels while our long-term AUM net flows were $7.8 billion, the second highest that we've seen since the Merrill merger.

Expenses declined versus the previous quarter due to the absence of certain fourth-quarter items including litigation expense and other operating losses, FDIC, and severance expense.

Net income in Global Banking, slide 15, was up 19% to $1.6 billion versus the fourth quarter and essentially flat with the first quarter of last year. Revenue increased 11% from the fourth quarter from higher investment banking fees, equity investment gains, and income from leasing transactions.

From a lending perspective, average loans were up slightly as 3% growth in our C&I lending to both large corporate and commercial clients was offset by planned decreases in commercial real estate in the DFS portfolio as well as Trade Finance.

Average deposit balances at $238 billion declined 1% due to seasonal outflows as well as certain liquidity management actions that we took. Despite that, our treasury services revenue remained strong at $1.6 billion, up 3% from the fourth quarter and 8% from the year ago quarter.

Asset quality continued to improve from the fourth quarter. Net charge-offs declined $133 million or 44%. Reservable utilized criticized exposure declined 10% $218 billion and our NPAs dropped 11% to $4.1 billion.

As you can see on slide 16, investment banking fees firm wide excluding self-led were $1.2 billion, up 20% from the fourth quarter as an increase in debt and equity underwriting fees were partially offset by a slowdown in overall M&A activity.

We were ranked number 2 globally in net investment banking fees for the quarter and about three-quarters of our fees in the quarter were driven by activity in the US and Canada.

Switching to Global Markets on slide 17, net income of $798 million increased from a loss in the fourth quarter reflecting increased sales and trading activity during the quarter. Total revenue ex DVA was up $3.3 billion from the fourth quarter and in line with what we saw in the first quarter a year ago.

Expenses were up from the fourth quarter driven by higher revenue but down slightly from a year ago. Excluding DVA, net income in the first quarter would have been in line with what we saw in the first quarter of last year. I think it's important though that when you look at that consistency in revenue and net income, it was done with risk weighted assets that at period end were $192 billion, down $87 billion from a year ago and average VAR in the quarter was $84 million, down from $184 million a year ago.

Continuing with Global Markets on slide 18, sales and trading revenues ex DVA losses increased $3.2 billion from the fourth quarter driven by our fixed income area due to improved market sentiment regarding the European financial crisis and an improved domestic outlook.

FICC revenue ex DVA was 3 times the level in the fourth quarter as we experienced increases in almost all product areas. Versus a year ago, FICC revenue was up 12% ex DVA, once again due mainly to improvements in rates and currencies.

In equities excluding DVA, results increased 62% from the fourth quarter, driven by increased derivative revenues. However, if we look back compared to a year ago, equity results were down about 18% due to lower overall market volumes. Once again, we recorded DVA losses of $1.434 billion in the fourth quarter as our credit spreads tightened during the quarter and that compares to losses of $474 million in the fourth quarter of '11 and $357 million in the year-ago quarter.

On slide 19, we show you the results of all other, which once again includes our global principal investments business, the non-US consumer card business, our discretionary portfolio that is associated with interest rate risk management, insurance, and the discontinued real estate portfolio. The $4 billion decline in net income versus the prior quarter was driven by the selected items that are listed on this slide along with litigation expense of $480 million.

One other item in all other that on the income statement flows through insurance revenue is an additional reserve of $200 million that relates to the payment protection insurance claims that we accrued for in the UK.

As you can see on slide 20, total expenses were down from the first quarter a year ago and except for all other, expenses are down year to year in part demonstrating our focus on efficiency across the entire Company as well as the initial impact that we've begun to see from the first phase of our new BAC efforts.

If we exclude LAS, FTE headcount for March was down approximately 5600 people from December and down approximately 20,000 from a year ago. Compared to the fourth quarter, expense increases were for the most part isolated to increases in performance related incentive expense, LAS costs, as well as business performance.

While I am talking about expenses, let me spend just a moment on taxes. We would expect the effective tax rate for 2012 to approach 30% excluding any unusual items. Embedded in that 30% or approaching 30% estimate is that we do anticipate another UK tax reduction of 2% to be enacted in the third quarter of 2012, which should result in a tax charge at that time of about $800 million. And remember though due to our DTA disallowance, that $800 million charge will not impact our regulatory capital ratios.

If we switch to credit quality on slide 21, overall consumer credit trends remained positive. Net charge-offs in the consumer portfolio increased during the quarter, but it was due to the absence of approximately $289 million in recoveries in the fourth quarter related to the sale of previously charged off UK credit card loans. Excluding those recoveries in the fourth quarter, net charge-offs would have been down by about 6%.

30% or 30-plus day performing delinquencies continue to drop and provision expense in consumer for the quarter was $2.6 billion and included a $1.1 billion reserve reduction.

On slide 22, we show the nonperforming asset trends for both residential mortgage as well as home equity. Residential mortgage NPAs were down 6% from the end of the year as paydowns, charge-offs, as well as returns to performing status continued to outpace new nonaccrual loans.

Home equity nonperformers did increase from year-end due to the impact of inter-agency guidance to reclassify to nonperforming status junior lien loans that have a first lien loan 90 days or more past due. This regulatory agency guidance resulted in an additional $1.9 billion of home equity loans being moved to NPAs. We have not restated prior periods.

As you think about that change, it's important to note that it did not have any impact on our allowance, our provision expense as we track the underlying first lien delinquency status of our junior lien home equity loans and have previously considered the additional risk that these loans present within our reserving process. If we back out this change, home equity NPAs were relatively flat for the quarter.

On slide 23, you can see that residential mortgage and home equity 30-day to 89-day performing delinquent loans excluding fully insured loans were both down. Of the $364 million decline in home equity, $264 million of that was due to the reclassification to nonperforming due to the impact of the inter-agency guidance that I just mentioned. While we typically see strong collections in the first quarter and while we believe that pace may slow, we would still expect improvement going forward.

If we turn to slide 24, commercial credit trends, we saw improving trends as I mentioned when discussing the results within our Global Banking area. Including the provision for unfunded commitments, we recorded a benefit to provision expense of $226 million that did include a reserve reduction of $595 million.

During the quarter, both nonperforming assets and reservable criticized levels showed declines of 10% on a linked-quarter basis.

As I wrap up my part of the presentation before moving to questions, I would just close with four comments. We feel very good about the progress that we made in the operating performances of the different lines of business. We've closed the first quarter with record levels of both capital and liquidity and we achieved this while lowering the overall risk profile of the Company. And as we go forward given the operating environment that we are in, we are very focused on continuing to drive expense levels down during the remainder of the year.

With that, we will go ahead and take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Glenn Schorr, Nomura.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thanks very much. Maybe we could get a little more granularity on FICC. The trading numbers were great and pretty much across the board, a big turnaround from last quarter. I want to talk about which piece of the franchise you thought were strongest and maybe any help you can give us on the positioning coming into the quarter so we think about the rest of the year the right way.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure, if you look at and think about the numbers that we gave you, within FICC, I mentioned on both a -- on an absolute dollar basis, clearly the most significant area that we saw was rates and currencies.

Client flows were very strong and we saw them in two areas. We saw them within Europe with some of the volatility in the markets in Europe activities were very high. And the second thing I would say is that within the FICC business as you think about the high levels of activity that we saw in the investment grade bond area, that translated into opportunities to do more business with our corporate customers and that contributed to the results in FICC as well.

Outside of FICC, the other areas that had nice increases during the quarter included our commodities area, which we have been focused on starting -- and starting to get some traction in the growth there as well as in the mortgage area. Those were the three most significant areas.

I would say the other area that was down a touch during the quarter would have been the overall loan trading area as some of the revenue opportunities given that the new issue business in loans was a little bit slower this quarter than a year ago quarter. We didn't see quite the opportunities there but at the same time, that area performed very well.

GLENN SCHORR: It sounds -- I don't want to put words in your mouth but it sounds like it was a pretty cash-driven business -- flow as well. I suppose that there is (inaudible)

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's fair.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Glenn, I think if you think over the last 24 months, Tom and the team have been continuing to build out the breadth of our platform across the world and we are reaping the benefits of that. So if you think about this quarter this year versus last year, all the prop trading was closed out by mid last year, etc. and then so it's really client flows driving -- now this is driven by really, as you said, less derivative but more client flows, more the new issue activity, more the cash business. It's a very core aspect of what we do.

So next quarter if it is a strong quarter in total revenues, it may not be as strong but the way we are getting there is very consistent quarter after quarter after quarter.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, I appreciate that. Bruce, I wonder if you could just explain a drop more -- give a little more color on the one-third of the RWA reduction that was the optimization of off-balance-sheet OTC assets?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure, if you go through that area I would say we continue to work very hard in scrubbing the data. There were certain lending activities that we do that are secured lending activities that as we work through we have the ability to optimize from an RWA perspective. So we had some of that. I would say as we look to and we refine what we do in the markets business, we improved the ability to net as we consolidated certain trading type activities and we also worked through and got third-party ratings on certain of the things which improved that as well.

So we continue to be very focused and think we've gotten through the majority of the optimization associated with Basel I, as I referenced, and the increase in our guidance, we're very focused now on optimizing the balance sheet and looking to drive those Basel III ratios higher as we go throughout the year.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, last one for me. Reps and warranty claims continue to rise. Just curious if you can give us an overall comment on A, what's driving it? And B, when we might see a leveling off?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think what I would say on that, Glenn, I would say it's really consistent with what we talked about when we discussed year-end numbers and with the disclosures that are in the slides. The majority of the increase in the backlog of reps and warrants is in the GSE category. It largely relates to Fannie Mae and if you saw and compared the balance at the end of the third quarter of 2011 with the balance at the end of the first quarter, you would see that the majority, a substantial amount of the amounts that are coming in are for borrowers that have paid well north of 24 months. And we obviously continue to have a disagreement with them about whose responsibility those are.

GLENN SCHORR: Understood, I appreciate that. Cool. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Maybe we could drill down a little bit more on the expense side. You mentioned the legacy mortgage costs start to come down in the back half this year. Obviously the new BAC cost saves will probably start to accelerate. When you put that all together, how do you envision the expenses trending both in second quarter and then maybe as we exit this year?

BRUCE THOMPSON: What I would say as you think about that, let's spend a moment just on what we saw during the fourth quarter and I think there are two items to note in the fourth quarter when you think of expenses. The $900 million that I referenced is -- as it relates to compensation related expense, that obviously as I said, only occurs in the first quarter of each year, so as you look out at over the next group of quarters, that will obviously no longer be there.

The second thing when you think about expenses for the quarter over and above that FAS-123 amount, the expense number for the quarter was up given that the accruals that we had based on the strong performance within the overall markets area.

So I think I would level set with those two areas as well as think about some of the mortgage-related charges that I'd referenced that the goal is as we work through the year that those would come down.

Once you move away from those expenses, you move to the new BAC expenses. If you think about new BAC 1, we had originally given guidance that it was $5 billion, 20% of which we would recognize during 2012. We obviously took that guidance up and said it would be greater than 20%. So as you look at those consumer businesses on the line of business slide that we gave you, you would expect to continue to see those expenses going down.

Obviously we are in the midst of new BAC 2, which we look to wrap up in the May timeframe and I would just reiterate what we have said there, which is that we don't think the expenses will be as great as what we saw in new BAC 1 although once again given that they are not as interdependent on technology, we have looked to see those expenses -- those expense savings to start as early as the end of this year.

So I would say that we continue to press through these. I think we wanted to show you the line of business breakdown because I think it gives you a good sense within each of the lines of business outside of what we are seeing in LAS which Brian talked to about the second half of this year, seeing savings as well as all other, which can be lumpy to the extent that there are nonrecurring type items showing up that you get a sense for where we are trying to go.

But clearly we would expect sequentially each quarter during 2012 for expenses to go down each of the next three quarters.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, as we think about some of the lumpy items like the litigation, the mortgage-related assessments and maybe any restructuring or severance costs for new BAC parts 1 and 2, any thoughts on the magnitude and timing of those?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think one of the things to keep in mind is that as we have gone through and as we're going through new BAC, we have been absorbing through the P&L the severance costs that goes along with the actions that we have taken. So if you go back to the fourth quarter we talked about there being a couple hundred million dollars of severance and related items that we took during the fourth quarter. We had roughly $100 million of those type items that we saw during the first quarter for severance.

As it relates to the other items, the only thing I can really say about the lumpy items is that each quarter we accrue them and true them up for what we think our best views are and we will continue to do that. So it's hard to give any specific guidance about what we may or may not see in any one quarter, recognizing that the accruals that we have on the balance sheet at this point are significant.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, and then just separately on the capital side, obviously the build the last two quarters has been very impressive, much more than many of us including myself had thought. As we start hearing you guys talk about additional changes from here, whether it's like some branch sales or there was something in the media the other day about you guys potentially looking at selling the non-US wealth management. As we see those things potentially coming up, is that still about a goal of building capital or is it much more about kind of rationalizing the franchise, as Brian mentioned earlier?

How do we think about like what's driving the motivation for some of these actions that you might be doing or might be being speculated out there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Without addressing speculation, if you look across the last two years, Matt, our goal is to get the franchise against the three customer groups and get out of the businesses which don't do that and everything we've been doing is consistent with that. Does it contribute to capital? Yes.

I would say you shouldn't expect the things in the future to have as much impact as the things we did in the last couple of years to [incremental] capital and a lot of the capital generation really comes from the earnings.

In the case of Basel III, remember that our biggest difference between our peers is the deductions for disallowed DTA etc., which accrete off over time. And then the third thing is continue to optimize the balance sheet.

So when we are making decisions about various aspects, whether it was Canadian card or something like that, it is in line with the strategy which is that everything we have will be direct to customers, focused on those customers and where we have competitive strength. And in the branches I talked about earlier, it's really fine-tuning the franchise that we have top positions in the top 30 markets a lot higher than other people by numbers of branches, things like that, continuing to enhance that position, continuing to build out markets behind that, but also focus a little bit more on the markets that there's growth potential in size and scale that we can take advantage of.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. A couple of follow-ups. One is on the new BAC 2. I am sure you are going into this with a number in your head and given the first-quarter strength, would you be inclined to be kind of taking it down relative to what you had been expecting? I would think you could make some arguments for less pull back than maybe you thought before?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think one of the things, Betsy, that we are very focused on is given that the environment relative to -- when we started new BAC 1 has started to improve a little bit, we are very focused on not taking a step back but continuing to drive what we saw in both new BAC 1 as well as new BAC 2.

Keep in mind a lot of what new BAC is relates to simplification. It relates to getting rid of work that doesn't need to be done and it relates to becoming more efficient.

So while I think on clearly on the margin this quarter you feel better about the overall sales and trading opportunity, it's not going to change the rigor and discipline with which we go through new BAC 2. And once again, we think given that we don't have as much technology, we will be able to get after those costs quicker than what we saw in new BAC 1.

The other thing that I think is important and even though it's not part of new BAC, if you look at both the global banking as well as the global markets expense levels, you read some about the reductions that we made during the third and fourth quarters of last year outside of the new BAC process. And you start to see some of the benefits of those flowing through, and you will see more of those next quarter as the people actually come off the payroll.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, then separately on page 9 you go through the NII. Could you just give a little bit more color around the hedge that you've got? I know you've got one on the AFS portfolio, and give us a sense as to how you are managing that right now.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Largely, a lot of those tend to be more pay fixed. So I think if you look at the variability, they will bounce around a little bit depending on where the rate curve is. But I think if you look out over the last couple quarters, they tend to be within a range of several hundred million dollars and they have been relatively fixed within that range. That's why we wanted to give you the guidance so you could get a sense as to what the core NII was, backing out any changes that happened due to those.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, so you haven't changed the size of that that much?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Not at all. And indeed, I would say the other thing that we are very focused on is managing the interest rate risk as we look out to Basel III, given that OCI will flow through capital. We have been, I think, very conservative in making sure that we manage this in a way so that at some point in time when rates start to move up that we don't have an OCI hit through that investment portfolio.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, think you very much. On your home equity portfolio, I know a lot of stuff is the new guidance out on recognizing NNPAs, some of those loans that were the first as defaulted. What do you do when you've modified the first? Can you talk a little bit about do you -- how do you treat the seconds? Do you modify the seconds also with the first? How do you classify those seconds?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes. I think there's a couple different ways to look at that, Paul, but let me spend just a moment. I'm glad you asked about the seconds behind delinquent first. If you go back and look at the disclosure that we put out at year-end with respect to our seconds behind delinquent first, you will see that at year-end as we took a look and did the work, we had roughly $2.5 billion of current seconds that were behind delinquent first.

Throughout the quarter as we continue to work with, and keep in mind the majority of our home equity portfolio where you have the first behind delinquent first, we do not have the first. So we need to work through the credit bureaus to understand exactly what the status of that first is. As we have worked through and done more and worked with the credit bureaus to understand those seconds behind delinquent first, that the guidance and when we adjusted up our nonperformers to the $1.9 billion, that is an improvement from what we saw at year-end of the $2.5 billion that's out there.

I would say secondly as you think about, and what we do through the reserving process with respect to both first and seconds, even though we may have -- and we obviously changed the way that the nonperformers are reported this quarter -- but we are very cognizant when we look at and have both our formulaic models as well as the imprecision reserves that we overlay on our portfolio; that to the extent that you have seconds that have a delinquent first, we are going to adjust our assumptions to be conservative as it relates to where we feel like we are reserved.

And I think this new guidance as we came out and as we worked through it at the end of the quarter and updated, we feel very good about where we were at the end of the first quarter relative to year-end.

The other thing that I would say when you ask about the different home equity portfolios is if you go back to slides 34 and slides 35 that we have in the investor deck, I think there are a couple important things to point out. The first is if you just go Q4 '11 to Q1 '12, you can see that we continue to see fairly significant paydowns within our home equity portfolio. And I think importantly if you look at the overall FICO scores as we have updated and worked through the FICO models, that the refreshed FICO on our home equity portfolio is now at 742.

So I think across the board with what we have seen in the quarter, well, I think we are very sensitive too that there's not the growth we would all like yet in the economy. We've been very focused on the home equity portfolio, and so far during the first quarter it has performed better than we would have expected.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think the other thing to add to that is two things. One is think of everything that has been originated now for four or five years has been originated under fairly conservative -- very conservative standards and traditional -- and going through the early 2000s. So everything that's get added to the portfolio is very carefully underwritten.

Second is at the end of the day, ultimately the cash is the cash. So ultimately the person either doesn't pay or pays on the first. Ultimately that first goes through liquidation. Ultimately the second is dealt with in that liquidation and the proceeds come in.

So moving around the timing and reporting is one thing but ultimately over a period of courses of months and quarters, it's the cash becomes the cash. And so what is reflected if you look at some of these long-term -- on page 23 in these charts is you can see activity has been going on for many years now and the simple matter is that each quarter it gets incrementally better. And this is the part of our portfolio where we are still doing the most work because it's the slowest to fully recover.

If you compare it against the card business or other businesses that have fully recovered and continue to have more upside, this will take us longer just because of the nature of the process. But it's a lot of talk about this but ultimately it comes through in terms of cash or the cash.

PAUL MILLER: Guys, that is really a great update and I appreciate it but going back to the question, part of the question was how do you treat modified loans? When you modify the first, how -- what type of activity you take on the second and then how do you classify that second lien?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well, if there is -- up until the change in the guidance, if you have a second lien that is current and you have a first lien that is delinquent or has been modified, you're not going to adjust the second. What the new guidance now provides is that if you have a first lien that's more than 90 days, so as you look at the March balance sheet, if we have a first lien loan that is more than 90 days past due, we are now characterizing the second lien as a non-performer.

PAUL MILLER: If you modify like under these various modification programs and if you modify the first, would you modify the second also? And then would you classify that as a current or a TDR or a nonperforming loan?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's very difficult. You have to realize, Paul, that there are two different situations that we have. We have situations where we have both the first and the second and then we have -- then we have situations where we have the second and somebody else may have the first.

I think the important thing to keep in mind is that as we went through and came up with this nonperforming data, we only take somebody off or only look at a loan where there is a nonperforming aspect to it. It only gets cleaned up by virtue of the credit bureau after they've been current for a year.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much, guys.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLP: Good morning. Brian, one of the things that you emphasized was improvements in the core businesses. Could you just give us some color on the businesses that are meeting or exceeding expectations versus those that are lagging? And what you are doing or maybe doing in the lagging businesses?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think if you think about the business across the five segments, in the consumer area I would say that we are very encouraged by the initial results and things like I said about the mobile banking enrollments and things like that which help us reduce the cost structure in the general retail business as we call it. And so we need to improve that business, all the regulatory changes that are well known to you, Nancy, over the last couple years took away a lot of profit and then the interest-rate environment which we are all familiar with. But the reality is if you look at the underlying customer dynamics, we're seeing improvements in online, mobile, the ability to fine tune the branches, the cost of the branches per dollar deposit, which is a metric I look at as improved and dropped again this quarter. The rates paid on deposit continue to work their way down. So it is improving but it is still at the $300 million to $400 million of profit. You can see in the core consumer deposits business, we need to make some upside from there.

Now let me flip to the place we are having good success here. On the preferred side of that business, which is the 8 million customers who have higher annual incomes and a little bit more with us, we are seeing great uptake in the service model we have created, which is differentiated service model, in the [FSAs] we put in the branches, which are financial advisors and branches which do two things. One is they serve clients who are sort of below the threshold for the affluent group and they also refer clients into the affluent group.

The mortgage officers working with those groups and the branches have been sort of designated preferred branches. We are seeing great uptake there and strong growth and strong penetration across you can see in the Merrill Lynch assets growing year over year, you can see in the flows of customer accounts, so that we are very excited about.

So retail mass market is more fine tuning delivery system and continuing to get incremental growth there, but the preferred is going well.

The wealth management business I think is performing very well, $500 of profit, look at the margins are better than anybody in the industry. We continue to see that. In the commercial banking business, the global banking segment was put together to highlight that that business was $1.6 billion in profits is fairly steady, provides good returns on a very capital-intensive business obviously because lending has shaped off its commercial real estate exposure, continues to perform return above the cost of capital.

If we were talking last quarter we'd be talking about the global banking business needing to recover and we saw it this quarter. So as you look across it, a lot of work to do in mortgage. I won't take you through that. Work to do in the core consumer retail franchise optimizing the costs because a lot of that progress is taking place and we've sort of seen the bottom I think sort of last year as the final (inaudible) as Durbin came through, seeing that come up.

And then across sort of the relationship business and wealth management in the preferred segment of consumer wealth management and global banking seeing strong, steady profits and then global banking, global markets we saw a nice recovery, so we are excited about that. That all poured through as we removed the cloud of the mortgage business.

NANCY BUSH: Bruce, a question for you. The core margin ex the market-related assets I think has hit 3% again. Is that maintainable? And if I could just ask you to speculate or forecast, when we get back to a more normal rate environment, what is an achievable sort of normalized margin for the Company?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think I'd make a couple observations. I think when you look at -- what we have talked about before was that as we think about 2012 and as we talked about year-end, you should think about 2012 the amount of NII we are reporting I think is a pretty good range if you back out either plus or minus what we saw from hedge and prepay.

I think if you look out at core margin and you think about where we are, there's nothing over time once the rate environment changes with the exception of having less credit card in the portfolio that would change what we've been able to achieve historically in margins, with one exception. The one exception that we are very focused on and one of the biggest opportunities we have with core margin is to continue to shrink the debt footprint that we have of the Company. And when you think about the $35 billion in maturities that we have in the first quarter -- or excuse me -- in the second quarter of this year as well as the amount of liquidity we have, that outside the core businesses that we have where you can kind of project what the yields are, the biggest opportunity we have to drive that down is using the liquidity to shrink the debt footprint, which on average as we repay that tends to be 300 and 400 basis points on a floating basis relative to the underlying LIBOR.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think, Nancy, if you look at the long-term average, I think it's been closer to 3 across time. Assume that the mix of the assets may shift and so say it is somewhere below that but from the 250-ish we kind of run at now to we've told you before 275 should be easily within range with a short-term rate that moves up 100 basis points or so and we still feel comfortable that's the mix of business we have. And in fact, we may have tightened that a little bit as we've tightened down the balance sheet.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Bruce, just following up on that last point, it just sounds like for this year net interest income was $11 billion this quarter. It sounds like you are kind of running in place perhaps the next couple quarters unless something changes on the rate front or loan growth.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think that's fair, John. Just realize, though, that when you look at that, I think you look at the quarter but think a little bit about the benefit that we had during the quarter from the prepay and the hedges. I would not assume that that is in the run rate during the next couple quarters.

JOHN MCDONALD: Was that a benefit or just a lack of a negative compared to last quarter? Was it a positive benefit this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It was both. It was a negative that swung to a positive during the quarter and like I said on a linked-quarter basis, it was about $500 million.

JOHN MCDONALD: What about just how much it was as a net positive this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I believe it was in the mid-300s, John.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay and then on credit, what kind of outlook do you have on the ability to keep up the current pace of reserve release? Do you question were to expect the size of the reserve release to come down going forward?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think as we look out at and we look at the models, John, I think the right way to think about it is we would expect that charge-offs would continue to decline as we go throughout 2012 quarter-over-quarter and I think what you're likely to see is that the benefit from reduced charge-offs is probably going to be more or less offset by lower reserve releases. So as you look at the overall provision number going forward over the next three quarters, while there may be a little bit of variability, I think that'll be a pretty good proxy for you.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay and then one little nitpick question. In the first quarter, the diluted share count declined by about 300 million shares even though the stock price went up, you issued shares to employees. Is that impacted by the Buffett warrants or why would it have gone down this quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: You've got two different things going on and the simplest way that I can say it, John, is that in a quarter we are on a reported basis that we are north of $0.11 or $0.12 on a reported basis, you are going to see the Buffett shares end and on a reported basis when we are below, they are out. So as you think about this quarter given that the impact of DVA and FVO and what it did to EPS, they were out.

And then obviously part of the reason why they were up a little bit in the quarter was because of some of the exchanges that we did throughout the fourth quarter of last year as well as the employee shares that were issued during the first quarter. Those are the things that comprised the difference.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, so those things were overwhelmed by the Buffett coming out this quarter because of the reported earnings?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That's correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then one last follow-up on expenses. The LAS this quarter was 3.3. First, did you say that you think those have peaked? And second, given that it's kind of a restated number now with the restatement, what is a good eventual number for LAS do you think longer-term? I think previously you had said it may be a few hundred million per quarter kind of a of normal servicing over time.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we said it was sort of a 500 a quarter is more of a normal servicing based on our estimates of what our portfolio would be at level.

JOHN MCDONALD: That's still the case the way it is stated now? Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, and I think, John, we are seeing -- if you look at the slide that shows you sort of the work is about the delinquent loans and you're seeing those drop and we will see those come down. As we've said, it will take us the rest of this year and into next year probably through next year to get it more normalized but we are very encouraged by the amount of work that is getting done and the staffing levels we have.

Just to keep it clear, we talked about the 40,000-ish employees we have here. We also have around 10,000 to 15,000 contractors at work in this business. So if you think about our total headcount, think of how much of our [278, 40,000] is deployed against this so when this comes down, it will have a significant impact on the Company's activities on a day-to-day basis.

JOHN MCDONALD: Just to clarify that, Brian, you are not expecting to get from $3 billion to a couple hundred million in a year, right? (multiple speakers)

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: No, it will take us this year, next year, and it will really show up in '14. It will keep coming down during those timeframes but I would expect normal to really get behind this -- it's probably into '14 just because we will get the activities down and it will take us a little while to shape it.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Last thing from me was Bruce, on the assessment of waivers back up to 410, why is that up so much? Is this a reserve and is this related to your kind of dispute with Fannie Mae?

BRUCE THOMPSON: There are a couple of things. There was a chunk that we had that when we looked at that we set aside for reserves on servicing advances, and there were other assessment type things like you would expect with Fannie Mae, so think about it in those two different contexts.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, it is that something that you have an outlook on that could continue at that level or is it very just impossible to predict?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We would not expect it to continue at that level.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, so somewhere between zero and 400.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Definitionally that's correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: All right. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. My question was on loan growth and I see global banking loans are flat and GWIM loans are flat and consumer is down. It looks like some sort of deceleration. So are you seeing a swap from at least the large loans to the capital markets or how do you describe what's taking place? Is there a slowdown in the US economy? Are you deliberately backing away from some credits? Any color you can give would be great.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure, I think what I would say is a couple things on that, Mike. The first is that we have a very strong both commercial and corporate franchise and obviously we are very focused especially given where we have built capital levels now as we go forward to look to build off and to grow traditional C&I loans both within the commercial as well as the overall corporate bank.

I think when you look at -- and two of the things or three of the things as I referenced that were slight offsets that we made a decision on during the quarter is that we have continued to work through and we have got our commercial real estate lending down to an area that we feel good about. So going forward, you would not expect to see the reductions in commercial real estate that you have seen over the last couple of quarters.

The second thing I would say is that we did during the quarter given what the market opportunity was and where pricing and securitization pricing was to securitize some of our DFS assets out in the market, which led to some of the reductions. That's something that was opportunistic and quite frankly gives us a base to be able to go out and grow and do more with our customers on.

And the third thing that was a little bit lighter relative to year-end was on the trade finance side but that will ebb and flow but as we've talked about before, we are very focused on growing the international footprint as well.

So I think while on the overall from an average balance sheet perspective it looked kind of flattish, we did see some growth within the areas that we are focused and those areas that there are reductions, we feel like we're generally down to and have done the things that we want to do to the point where we can start growing off that base.

I think if you move to the consumer space, I would just note a couple of things as people look at loans in the consumer space. Obviously as we look at the home equity business that the balances were down about $3.5 billion in home equity, we clearly are not doing a lot of new home equity lending now and the fact that those balances are going down we view as a very good thing.

The second thing is if you look in our supplement, you will see that the residential mortgage area is coming down. Keep in mind that's not due to residential mortgages that we are originating. As we look to manage the overall risk profile and interest rate profile, there's a constant look at do we want to own whole loans or do we want to own securities? And at the end of the quarter, at the first quarter we were a little bit more into securities than whole loans.

And then the last thing I would say on loan balances is just within the card business that seasonally card balances obviously tend to peak in the fourth quarter, so the declines you saw in the card business in the first quarter were largely seasonal.

MIKE MAYO: Then just one follow-up. Seems as though your market share in cards and mortgages has declined. Do you agree or disagree? If you agree, is this a deliberate move? Are you underperforming what you would like to achieve or is this simply prudent given what you are seeing in the market?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Mike, if you look at -- let's take mortgage first. If you look at the fourth quarter we did about $15 billion of direct to consumer originations and in the first quarter, we did about the same. So the real steep drop in call it our market share out there has been on the correspondent side just going to zero. So if you look year-over-year, it dropped $20 billion odd in production.

That is an absolute deliberate move. We will move -- we will be in the direct to retail channel for both our general customers and then also our affluent and wealthy customers. It's a business we think we have an advantage in and we will continue to drive that.

That being said, as we retooled that business, we underperformed on a direct to retail and we expect that as we move through each quarter, each month of the quarter we saw improved results on just straight volumes and we have added more loan officers.

We focus the people who are getting several thousand in the quarter of referrals from the branches and working with the teammates there. We have staffed up on the fulfillment side to increase our throughput. You remember there is some noise about a reservation system earlier on.

So we underperformed but we are doing exactly what we wanted, which was to focus on direct to retail. The team is working hard, David Darnell and the team, and you will see us improve there.

But the correspondent is behind us and as I said, if you want that business back, I can go out and buy it in the market. It's not actually a customer-driven business in the way we look at businesses here in the Company.

When you go into the card business, I think we have been continuing to fine-tune and have sold off some portfolio as we are providing the card as a backbone to other companies, meaning other financial companies and we sold those portfolios back to them as part of fine-tuning the business.

I would say that we have performed as anticipated in card, really brought the direct mail down. This quarter we did 800,000 new cards as I said, half through the branch system with the credit quality that you can see in our numbers, which is outperforming what we would have expected as we put the cards on over the last couple of years. So we should expect to hold our share there and start to drive it but we still are in a straight raw market competitiveness of 15% versus 16% or something like that in the fourth quarter. It really is based on us continuing to shape the affinity groups and some of the vestiges in the US business of the past.

But you should expect that to stabilize now and start to grow. That has been a strategy we told you we would start in 2009 honestly and it's behaving the way we said.

That being said, there's plenty of opportunity for us to drive the card business in our franchise, so we have the 800,000 originations, the 1 million Bank of America Cash 1-2-3 cards. We will drive that business back up but again, it will be focused on the customers.

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys. I just wanted a real quick hit on the tax rate. I got to 9% for the quarter. Is that right? What's driving that? Were there any unusual items in there that when you hit on your 30% tax rate for the year we should sort of consider when we think about full-year tax rate?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think the thing when you look at taxes for the first quarter that you have to keep in mind is that because of the large DVA and FVO charges that went through the P&L, the pretax income after those charges was reduced, so you have a couple preference items in the first quarter that when they are compared on a book basis to a relatively low pretax income number, it tends to distort the effective tax rate. So as we -- and I will just say what I said during the presentation, as you have a more normalized quarter without the DVA and the FVO, we would expect the rate for the year to approach 30%. And the one unusual item that I would note in that rate approaching 30% is that we will have the $800 million adjustment for the UK tax rate given that the tax rate is going down in the jurisdiction where we have a DTA.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, and on rep and warranties, it seems as though there is a new low-level provision that you guys tend to be running at which really reflects B of A's view, yet we've got steadily increasing Fannie claims. And I'm just curious how those resolve themselves and maybe also how much of those claims are tied to MI through rescissions or cancellations of insurance?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: At this point, I would say a couple of things. The first is that and as we talked about both at year end in this quarter we continue to adjust and provide reserves for the MI rescission and continue to work through that process with not only Fannie but other places where MI is topical and our reserves reflect that.

I think with respect to your original question as it relates to reps and warrants, we obviously look at and provide the rep and warrant each quarter based on what we are seeing and based on our interpretation of the documents, which I can assure you we have had numerous people look at and feel very strongly with where we are. And I'd don't think it's probably appropriate for me to reflect or to comment on what Fannies' view on that may be.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Sure, that's fair. I guess I'm just trying to understand as far as the MI impact is concerned, is it that B of A is providing the rep and warrant that valid insurance exists and then therefore the GSE has a claim against B of A and then B of A has to go pursue that actual -- has a claim against the MI? Can you help me understand how that works?

BRUCE THOMPSON: You are right and in our disclosure we talk about in certain cases where we do need to go and pursue and work with the different reinsurers to get the payments that were due and what I would say is that each quarter as we go through this, the reserves that we put up as it relates to the risk of mortgage rescission, the reserves apply both to the GSEs or anywhere else, that could be a risk for us.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, and they would reflect if there's any deterioration in counterparty, those reserves would reflect that as well?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Absolutely.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Last for me on capital markets, you made some comments about VAR but just if you could talk about maybe what happened with risk in the quarter, did you guys take on risk particularly in FICC, which given what happened if he took it on at the beginning quarter certainly would've worked out well? And then maybe give us an idea of how much of a tailwind for FICC you guys benefited as far as the tightening credit spread environment?

BRUCE THOMPSON: A couple things. The first thing that I would say is that the -- as I referenced, the largest driver in the FICC business this quarter was our rates and currencies area and that strength that we saw in the quarter was due solely or due largely I guess I would say to client flows where we were doing more with our clients during the quarter. So that is good core flow business for us that we saw during the quarter. And I think that if you look at both the risk weighted assets and the VAR, they support that in that what we are seeing is that we are able to take less risk and make -- if you look at both RWA as well as VAR, they were roughly half of what they were a year ago and we were still able to generate the same level of revenue.

And I think when you think about that revenue number and you think about the level of risk, what it's reflective of is the fact that our client-facing businesses during the first quarter were very strong and I think the only other thing I would say is that as we have continued to build the balance sheet, build capital, and as we have seen our credit spreads tighten, the one thing I would say is that we are seeing more and more people that are doing more and more business with us and we feel very good about that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: To be clear, we have not changed the limits this business operates under in seven or eight quarters. So the ability to do what they need to do to participate in the markets is there and they are making the choices based on the opportunities and capabilities that they have to do it and they are well within the risk measures and producing as much revenue. So I think the team is doing a great job of really driving the business along the way that you'd want them to.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: It sure looks that way. Thanks for the color, guys.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, just a follow-up on the GSE activity and two separate points. First of all, with all -- despite all the rhetoric about the GSEs kind of expanding what they're looking at, it looks like this quarter actually had a smaller kind of new claims from the GSEs than the last at least the previous four. But at the same time your kind of activity either approving repurchases or rescinding them were both kind of much, much lower. Could you talk about what's actually going on there and what it's going to take to get some more of this resolved as we go forward?

BRUCE THOMPSON: What I would say is generally in any one quarter, it can bounce around a little bit but I'd just reiterate -- I would say that the activity that we saw during the first quarter was not significantly inconsistent with what we saw during the fourth quarter. But you are right, the data you just quoted, you would expect to see the number of repurchases as a percentage to decline to the extent that you disagree with what's coming in.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: You are assuming that a loan every quarter for the last 10 quarters is exactly what they sent in is the same. What has happened is it's different and so the result of the activity is different because what is being sent is different. It's not that the volume is different.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it, a couple of other quick things. First, actually you mentioned before the correspondent business and the mortgage business kind of being focused on the core Bank of America customer. Is there any thought about thinking about that in the credit card business as well and kind of doing something with some of the affinity business, the national credit card business that doesn't kind of overlap with your customer base?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Just to be clear, the correspondent business is out of the mortgage business, so it's a direct-to-retail business. In the card business, we have an affinity group and we've narrowed that group of affinities over the last three years to be consistent with where we think it adds value to the customer and to the Company.

And so we have major affinity programs which are very valuable to us that we continue to drive growth in. What we have done is pared off several thousand of programs which the economics just didn't make sense, so we have achieved that.

I think those are affinities with big brands that we benefit by as a company as opposed to affinities frankly where we are providing a credit card for another financial institution that provides a core product to our customers. That's what we've really gotten out of and then smaller groups that just didn't have the volume, just doesn't make sense.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great, And just one quick last thing and that is obviously some terrific progress on the capital front. I didn't catch if you had said this before but do you have -- have you changed your expectation of kind of year-end risk-weighted assets under Basel III or has been -- has the improvement been kind of more from the numerator or is it denominator driven also?

BRUCE THOMPSON: If you look at it, it's going to be a little bit of both. Because as I referenced, as you think about what we got through and once again under both Basel I as well as Basel III, we are in a disallowance under Basel I of DTA and in Basel III, we are over the 15% SIM bucket. So as we generate net income and as you think about the piece that's FVO not being in it, the numerator is benefiting and then secondarily, the denominator as we continue to work through and optimize, it will improve.

We obviously have taken the guidance on Basel III at year-end fully phased in up above 7.5%. We will look to give you greater detail on both numerator and denominator when we look at Basel III at the end of the second quarter.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jefferson Harralson, KBW.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Thanks, I will ask a question on LIBOR. There's been some ruckus overseas on how it's set, and regulators being concern about potential I guess issues with how it is set. Can you comment on how BAC participates in the setting of LIBOR and if you have reserves or any concerns over this process as it plays out?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: This has been going on awhile. We wouldn't comment. I would leave it to our lawyers to talk to you about it but it's been going on for a couple years.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt, Evercore Partners.

ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Thanks. Good morning, guys. I just want to circle back on the margin NII commentary in terms of I think you're basically saying that we should think about NII basically holding. But I want to go back this quarter, you had the benefit that's not going to repeat. But then what were the drags? Again, you had mentioned earlier maybe I missed it in terms of some consumer yield pressure but then is there also core asset yield pressure because of low rate environment?

BRUCE THOMPSON: The biggest thing, Andrew, if you think about it was that the -- and keep in mind we're thinking of NII now, not pretax income. The biggest difference in the quarter that was a drag was the fact that we had over $8 billion of card receivables from the Canadian card business, that that sale closed at the beginning of December. So as you think sequentially and you think about those consumer balances and consumer yields, that was the biggest piece of it and obviously the number that we put out there was that it was to the tune of about $400 million.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it, and then in terms of outside of that commercial pricing competition, asset yield pricing, asset yield pressure, is that manageable it seems like?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think it's manageable. I think the only other thing that I would say is that as you look out at NII and when you run the size of the investment portfolio that we run from a rate management perspective, as rates bounce around and as some of those mortgage and other types securities yields either go up or down, will fluctuate with that. But there was nothing really notable for the quarter from that perspective.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay, thank you. Then in terms of looking at the pre-pre-, this quarter came in just under on a core basis maybe $7 billion materially better than last quarter which was just under $4 billion. But then this quarter obviously helped by FICC and mortgage banking that may not repeat.

How should we think about that kind of on a core run rate basis? Will that improve largely now due to expenses continuing to improve based on Phase I and then Phase II next year?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think there's a couple things. Obviously in any one quarter if you think about variables, you've got on the revenue side the one variable piece that we have in revenues is going to be what you see from a sales and trading perspective that there is a level of variability in that either up or down.

I think from a revenue perspective given that you've backed out the different security gains and private equity gains when you quoted that seven, that's going to be the one number from a revenue line that does have the variability to it. And then I think your point is exactly right that what we can do to look to drive that number up is largely going to be on the expense side.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: You do you still have confidence --? Maybe it's an outdated range now of 45 to 50 on an annual basis, is that still valid or have things changed enough that that needs to be rethought?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think on the prior calls we brought -- that range has been a lower range just because we sold off a lot of the credit cards and stuff when that number was originally published. But I think as we said last quarter, we are continually confident that we can push the number given the time and the interest rate environment and over $10 billion a quarter but it's going to take a normalized interest rate environment and economy growing at 3% as opposed to economy growing at 1.5% or 2%, which is what we've been consistently saying.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Thank you, and then lastly just on capital, any updated thoughts on potential deployment, maybe still too early but maybe more confidence now that bumping up your goal and target for Tier 1 common Basel III of 7.5% by the end of the year. Any updated thoughts on when or how or maybe some thoughts also kind of lessons learned from what happened with Citigroup?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we were clear in the CCAR what we said and we came through that test and we were clear before that we didn't apply for anything in 2012. I don't think we changed our thinking in that as we work to make sure that we drive towards being Basel III compliant over the next couple of quarters.

So I think we are -- we have a high confidence in our capital, high confidence that we have the right capital and high confidence we're building at a good pace that we knew before but now you all see and so I think we will just keep playing it through the end of this year in this way.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it and too soon to call until maybe towards the end of the year where capital stands ultimately in the outlook macro wise? Is that fair?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I'm sorry, I didn't hear the very end of that.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Is that fair to assume kind of too soon to call in terms of is 2013 the year in terms of maybe starting to at least think about it or at this point --?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We will let you know. As we have said consistently, we will apply when we know we will get approved and we could work closely with our regulators to get that through and we will see how we proceed through this year and the next.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Very good, thanks.

KEVIN STITT: That was our last question. I would like to thank you for participating.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's program. You may disconnect at any time. Thank you and have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c173 : Financing Agreements | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120503e84j001xl
  


 HD
 Q4  2011  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
17,287 words
   PD
19 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to today's program. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
Please note this call is being recorded and I will be standing by should you need any assistance. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Kevin Stitt. Please go ahead, sir.

KEVIN STITT, DIRECTOR, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.

These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.

With that let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Kevin. Before Bruce begins -- and good morning to everybody. Before Bruce begins his portion of the presentation on the slide I thought I would make a few comments about 2011 and what we are focused on for 2012.

The last two years we have been executing on a huge transformation here at Bank of America. After six large acquisitions in six years during the mid-2000s then the economic crisis and its aftermath we set on a course to simplify the Company, to streamline the Company, to reduce the size of the Company, to lower our risk, and build a fortress balance sheet.

During that we set goals to have 9% Basel I Tier 1 common and 6% tangible common at year-end 2011. We set goals to reduce our non-core assets. We set goals to bring our credit risk down and to address the mortgage risk related to the Countrywide acquisition.

At the same time, we also set goals to continue to invest in the areas where our company can grow and has its competitive advantage -- areas like our wealth management area; areas like our preferred and small business areas where we have added preferred bankers and small business bankers; areas like our commercial corporate and investment banking areas, especially in large corp investment banking outside the United States.

Along the way we had to address the issues that came up in mortgage; the slow recovering economy, which is moving forward but not as fast as we would all like, the European crisis; a muted interest rate outlook; and the revenue loss to the new regulations that have been passed. This then resulted in our focus on costs and we announced early last fall our New BAC program and the goals that we had for it.

So as we think about 2011 we saw the following; first, on capital and liquidity. This quarter Tier 1 common equity ratio ended at 9.86%. Our tangible common equity ratio ended at 6.64%.

In the case of each of these ratios they are a dramatic improvement from the beginning of the year, and we made these improvements while absorbing significant mortgage-related costs during the year. We have ratios that are in line with our peers and we expect further improvement due to the continued work on the balance sheet we will make during 2012.

In addition, our liquidity is and remains at record levels even after the downgrades we experienced in the fall.

Moving from capital and liquidity to our core businesses, on slide two you can see we continue to do what we are here for. We simply serve our clients and customers and we do it very well.

Our core business activity continues to move forward. During 2011 we continued to grow our deposits and our investment assets for our core personal customers. We originated 20% more in small business loans this year in 2011 than we did in 2010. This met our internal goals we had for that unit, but importantly also met our billion-dollar increment goal we committed to the White House and the Small Business Administration a few months back.

For our commercial clients and our corporate clients we did what we are here to do -- we provided more loans, more capital, and more market access here in the US and around the world. For example, in the fourth quarter you can see strong growth in our loan balances in our corporate area. And for our investor clients we achieved the number one institutional investor overall research ranking, evidencing the quality of our ideas to match our capital to help them make their investments.

In our mortgage business we continued to reshape our operations to focus solely on origination of mortgages for our customers and to do it well. Importantly, we continue to help those who have difficulty making their payments and mortgages. We have now crossed over 1 million modified loans in our servicing portfolios.

The third area we focused on after capital liquidity and the core businesses was cost. It's clear that we are going to grind forward with a recovery in this country. Our clients continue to push forward and we are seeing the activity continue to move forward, but a full recovery to what we would call normal may take some time.

So with that in mind we began to focus on bringing our costs down across the Company. Our cost structure at Bank of America has two broad elements today. First, the costs we incur to deal with the mortgage issues and, second, the remaining costs to run the rest of the Company for the benefit of our customers.

Overall costs were down from 2010 to 2011 and we expect substantial cost savings in 2012. This quarter you can see that starting to take hold.

We made significant progress towards our overall FTE reduction goals. Our period-end FTE is down about 7,000 people in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter. This is over and above the 2,500 people we added in this quarter for our Legacy Asset Services.

There is two things about this. One, this shows that our New BAC implementation has begun in earnest and, second, the good news is that we expect that LAS is at or near its peak staffing.

The fourth we have been concentrating on in 2011 was trading. Trading was strong in the first part of the year but with the issues in Europe, the US downgrades, the downgrades of our company, and changes in client risk appetite results were weak in the second half, especially in the third quarter.

However, during the fourth quarter we partially recovered, as Bruce will talk about later, yet we still reduced risk during the quarter to ensure we were well-positioned to handle what might have come up. We still have work to do in trading but the team got after it this quarter as the quarter unfolded and we saw stronger results.

From a credit risk perspective you can see that our charge-offs and cover ratios continue to improve. We ended the year with strong ratios, and we also ended the year with $15.9 billion in rep and warranty liability reserves. We built significant litigation and other reserves in this area also.

So the four areas for 2011 was all about raising capital and liquidity, driving the core businesses, managing the costs, and risk management. As we look at 2012 these themes are the same.

First, on capital and liquidity. Bruce will talk to you later about our targets as we look forward, but the focus in this company is to continue to move through the 10% level in Basel I Tier 1 common and drive towards the Basel III implementation. Liquidity will remain high, even as we continue to reduce our long-term debt footprint.

The second area is cost. As I said earlier, we expect that operating costs of LAS are nearing peak. As we finished the closure look back and we continue to reduce the delinquent units serviced by this group we expect these costs to come down during 2012.

Just for clarity, in this quarter, in the fourth quarter of 2011, LAS costs were $3.5 billion of our total cost. $1.5 billion of that was litigation and LAS; the remaining were operating costs.

For the rest of the Company we had expenses about $16 billion in the fourth quarter, including $0.5 billion in goodwill write-downs. We expect to see in 2012 strong cost improvement consistent with our New BAC goals. Bruce will discuss these goals later.

New BAC is doing what we expected and the phase two evaluation is going well. As you know, headcount drives our costs. We saw a significant improvement in the fourth quarter and we expect to see that as we move through 2012.

As we move to the core businesses in 2012, for 2012 we can now really focus on our retail strategy. In this quarter you see the last part of the regulatory costs coming through, that is the Durban interchange changes. We have now absorbed the Durbin, the Reg E, the CARD Act, and all the change that occurred over the last couple years.

The focus here in consumer is to balance our customer and shareholder return needs and to continue to work on our cost structure, reducing branches as will be done this year. We are also going to continue to meet our customers' change behaviors through our innovative offerings, especially to our 9 million-plus mobile banking consumers.

Trading continues to improve this quarter as I said and we have (inaudible) business at times and we look forward to continuing to improve in 2012. LAS and mortgage will continue to take work during 2012 which won't be different than 2011, but for the other businesses we expect to generate strong core customer results. We also will continue to take advantage of the growth opportunities, garnering more customers and more depth in relationship with our customers. That should continue to provide the good returns on capital that you see in those businesses this quarter.

As we think about risk for 2012, we expect to see continued improvement in credit risk as these legacy portfolios that we have identified for you continue to run off. Those legacy portfolios are a drag on earnings with much higher credit costs than the rest of the portfolios that we will retain and drive as we go forward.

We also expect in 2012 to continue to manage through the mortgage issues, relying in part on our significant reserves we built in 2011. So as we look forward to 2012 the focus remains the same as it has the last two years -- continue to drive capital and liquidity, continue to drive our core business growth where we have opportunities, continue to manage our costs well, and continue to manage the legacy residual risk down.

As we think about 2012, we begin with a much stronger position, stronger capital and liquidity, stronger reserves, and that continues to give us optimism about the prospects for our franchise. And with 2012, with much progress having been made on some of these legacy issues in the transformation over the last couple years, we can take all the energy and talent we used to drive that and dedicate it to help drive our company's success. And we look forward to doing that.

With that I will turn it over to Bruce.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. I am going to start my comments on page six of the slide presentation.

As you all saw this morning, on an FTE basis we reported net income of $2 billion, or $0.15 per share, during the fourth quarter of 2011. I would like to bring your attention to several items in the quarter that had significant impacts on the income statement.

First, in November we sold the majority of the balance of our CCB shares generating a gain of $2.9 billion. In addition to that we exchanged trust preferred securities into a combination of senior notes and common stock during the quarter, which generated a pretax gain of $1.2 billion. And, lastly, we had gains on sales of debt securities of approximately $1.2 billion in the quarter.

Things that went against us through the income statement during the quarter. The tightening of our credit spreads generated a DVA loss of $474 million relating to our trading liabilities. As Brian referenced, we had a goodwill impairment charge of $581 million that we recognized during the quarter that related to a change in the estimated value of the European card business. And that is reported in All Other.

During the quarter we also had a credit mark on our structured liabilities under the fair value option that resulted in a negative mark of $814 million as a result of our credit spreads tightening, and that is reported in other income. As you think about that $814 million, keep in mind that whether positive or negative it does not impact regulatory capital ratios, but it does impact GAAP capital.

Lastly, from a litigation perspective we had expense in the quarter of $1.8 billion, of which $1.5 billion was mortgage related.

If we flip to slide seven there are a lot of numbers on this page, but I would like to bring your attention to a couple things. The first, as you look from year-end 2010 to year-end 2011 you see a continued transformation of our balance sheet where all of the focus is moving to our core client activities.

Couple things to highlight. Total assets -- and I am speaking from third quarter to fourth quarter now. Total assets for the quarter were down 4% or approximately $90 billion. From a risk-weighted asset perspective, risk-weighted assets were down 6% or $75 billion during the quarter.

If we move down to Tier 1 common equity, Tier 1 common equity during the quarter increased $9 billion to $126.7 billion. That increase in Tier 1 common, along with the reduction in risk-weighted assets, led to our Tier 1 common equity ratio increasing from 8.65% to 9.86%. And I will go into that in a little bit more detail in a few minutes.

Tangible book value per common share was down 2%, reflecting the fact that we issued 400 million shares in the exchanges that I referenced with respect to trust referred and preferred securities. You can see that 400 million shares in our outstanding common share change from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.

If you move to the bottom, our allowance for loan loss reserves came down $1.3 billion during the quarter as we released reserves. Importantly though, our allowance relative to annualized charge-offs improved from 1.7 times to 2.1 times at the end of the year. And, lastly, our liability for representations and more warrants remained relatively flat at approximately $16 billion.

If we move to slide eight, I thought it was important to give you a walk-through of the drivers of the improvement in the Tier 1 common equity ratio. We start on the far left at 8.65%. As we have disclosed throughout the quarter the preferred exchanges, the CCB sale of shares, and the Canadian consumer card sale in the aggregate generated 60 basis points of Tier 1 common.

Over and above that 21 basis points coming from net income and change in deferred tax asset. Within the global markets business about 18 basis points through reductions in market risk. Change in loan balances and other asset sales were about 10 basis points and you had a series of other things, both positives and negatives that netted out to 12 basis points, which in the aggregate increased the number to 9.86% at the end of the year.

Moving from capital to liquidity. If you flip to slide nine you can see that our global excess liquidity sources increased from $363 billion at the end of the third quarter to $378 billion at the end of the fourth quarter. As you think about those excess liquidity sources, recall that that does not include approximately $189 billion in additional liquidity that is available to our banking entities by pledging assets to the Home Loan Banks in the Fed discount window.

At the parent company, parent company liquidity was particularly strong at $125 billion, up $6 billion for the quarter. As you think about that increase it's important to note that we accomplished that increase while reducing parent company debt by $17 billion during the fourth quarter.

As a result of those changes, our time to required funding increased to 29 months at the end of the year, up from 27 months at the end of the third quarter. That liquidity base, along with other funds that are available to us, will enable us to retire $60 billion of parent company unsecured debt that matures throughout 2012. About $24 billion of that is TLGP debt that will come due during the second quarter.

As you think about our issuance plans throughout 2012, from a plain-vanilla debt perspective you should expect us to be issuing less long-term debt in 2012 than we did in 2011. Similar to where we were at the end of the third quarter, our parent company and broker dealers have no short-term unsecured debt outstanding.

We move from liquidity to net interest income turning to slide 10. Net interest income was $11 billion during the fourth quarter, up $220 million from the third quarter. The increase was driven by lower asset hedge ineffectiveness as well as less acceleration of amortization of premiums on securities.

On the positive side, contributions to net interest income from lower debt balances and rates paid on deposits were more than offset by portfolio repricing and reduction in consumer loan balances, including the sale of the Canadian card business. Would ask you to keep in mind here that our asset liability management strategy is focused on managing interest rate risk across the entire corporation, which includes minimizing OCI exposure in managing the duration of our securities.

Moving to slide 11 on Deposits, we highlight the results of our deposit business. Earnings for the quarter were $141 million, a decrease from the third quarter primarily driven by an increase in FDIC expense which we would expect to come down going forward. Average deposit balances decreased 1% compared to the third quarter, driven primarily by a decline in time deposits which we had targeted to do during the quarter and will continue to do so.

During the quarter rates paid on deposits declined from 25 basis points to 23 basis points.

As we continue to focus on the cost and optimize our delivery network, you can see our branch count came down again during the quarter.

We have continue to expand our service for small business owners by hiring over 500 locally-based small business bankers during the year to provide convenient access to financial advice and solutions to our customers. We have also continued to increase our mobile banking customer base to 9.2 million customers, which is a 7% increase from the prior quarter and up 45% from a year ago.

We turn to slide 12 Card Services earnings decreased from the third quarter to $1 billion, primarily due to the impact of the Durbin Amendment which kicked in during the fourth quarter. Credit card purchase volumes did increase by 6% from a year ago after adjusting for portfolio divestitures and were up seasonally from the third quarter.

Within our US card business new account growth was up more than 50% from the fourth quarter a year ago. Within Card Services ending loans declined $1.6 billion from the third quarter due largely to portfolio divestitures and continued noncore portfolio run-off that was partially offset by the increase in volume-related seasonal spend.

Credit quality within the card business continues to improve. US credit card losses improved for the ninth consecutive quarter and our 30-plus-day delinquency rate declined for the 11th consecutive quarter.

As you look at the card business, I want to remind you that the international card business results were moved to All Other in the third quarter and prior period results were adjusted accordingly.

Within Global Wealth and Investment Management on slide 13, earnings for the quarter of $249 million were down from the third quarter as lower market levels and activity drove lower revenue and expenses were higher due to a few noisy items. Client balances were up 3.5% from the third quarter due to fourth-quarter market levels as well as AUM flows. Long-term AUM flows were $4.5 billion during the fourth quarter, pretty much in line with what we saw during the third quarter.

On the expense side, as I mentioned, there were several items, including higher FDIC and litigation expenses as well as other related losses and some severance costs, that we saw during the quarter. We added 214 financial advisors to the world's leading advisory force during the quarter with total FA levels exceeding 17,300 at the end of the year. As we look forward we would expect muted advisor growth in 2012 based on economic conditions as well as us absorbing the FA growth from 2011.

Net income in Commercial Banking on slide 14 was flat at $1 billion (technical difficulty) the third quarter. Commercial clients continued to increased liquidity positions, driving average deposit levels up $2.2 billion from the third quarter. Average loans were flat as the reductions that we saw within our Commercial Real Estate area were offset by about $1.7 billion of loan growth within the C&I category.

Asset quality continued to improve. Net charge-offs were down $83 million. Nonperforming assets were down $1 billion to $5.6 billion and our reservable, utilized, criticized exposure declined by 11% during the quarter.

If we switched to our Global Banking and Markets area on slide 15, the results reflected increased sales and trading activity excluding DVA, which I will cover in greater detail in a minute. Average loan and lease balances during the quarter increased $10.5 billion, or 9%, primarily driven by growth in domestic and international corporate loans as well as international trade finance.

While deposit balances were down 5% versus the linked quarter, I would highlight that our ending deposits at the end of the year were up nicely as we saw good flows during the last half of the quarter. If you turn to slide 16, I would ask you to look in the middle of the page where we have drawn a red box around our sales and trading area. Sales and trading, excluding DVA, was $1.9 billion, or up 73%, from what was a difficult third quarter driven primarily by our fixed income currency and commodity area due to less volatility, a tightening spread environment, and a reduction in the CVA, although these are still at relatively elevated levels.

Within our FICC business, excluding DVA, credit products, structured credit trading, and rates and currencies drove much of the increase. In equities, once again excluding DVA, results decreased by 16% primarily due to lower volumes and commission-related revenue.

We did record DVA losses, as I highlighted up front, of $474 million in the quarter as our credit spreads tightened compared to gains of $1.7 billion that we saw during the third quarter. On the investment banking side, firmwide investment banking fees, excluding (inaudible) fees, were $1 billion, up 8% from the third quarter of 2011. We would also note here that we maintained our number two ranking globally in net investment banking fees while gaining share during the year.

We turn to slide 17. Commercial Real Estate Services reported a loss of $1.5 billion driven by continued elevated credit costs in the home equity portfolio, higher litigation costs, and the cost of managing delinquent and defaulted loans in the servicing portfolio. The home loans business within the CRES area had a slight profit for the quarter.

First mortgage production of $22 billion was down from the third quarter, due primarily to our exit from the correspondent channel which we spoke of during the last quarter's earnings call. As a result of this, core production income declined during the -- relative to the third quarter of 2011.

Results for the quarter did include $263 million in costs for reps and warrants primarily related to the GSEs, along with the $1.5 billion of litigation expense I touched on at the beginning of the presentation.

Our MSR assets decreased by approximately $500 million during the quarter, driven by MSR sales and borrower payments and ended the quarter at $7.4 billion. MSR results, net of hedge, were positive by approximately $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter. As we look at the cap rate on the MSR, we ended the period at 54 basis points versus 52 basis points in the third quarter.

On slide 18 we show some comparisons of certain metrics in the Legacy Asset Servicing area on a linked-quarter basis and compared to the prior-year quarter as we continue to work very hard to reduce delinquent loans and find homeowner solutions. As Brian referenced, we are either at or near the peak of staffing this area and we are making very good progress.

Total Legacy Asset Services first lien servicing dropped 16% in the quarter while 60-day-plus delinquent loans dropped 8%. Much of the work done to sell MSRs has allowed the transfer of more than 510,000 loans serviced in the past quarter alone. As we look at this page it's obviously very important that we continue to shrink the activity that we have in the Legacy Asset Servicing area so that we can begin attacking the $2 billion of expenses that Brian alluded to at the beginning.

On slide 19 we show you the results of All Other, which recall includes our global principal investing business, the international consumer card business, strategic investments, our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate protection, and the discontinued real estate portfolio. Items of note in the quarter and All Other included $814 million related to the negative fair value adjustments on structured liabilities, the $581 million goodwill impairment charge related to European card, $2.9 billion related to CCB, $1.2 billion on the exchanges, and $1.1 billion related to the sale of debt securities.

As we move and flip to slide 20 a lot line items and data, but I would highlight a couple of things here. We did make very good progress across most categories of expense. If you start at the top line you can see that our personnel expense did come down in the quarter, largely driven by a 7,000 reduction in FTE headcount from approximately 288,000 to 281,000. Those benefits were somewhat muted in the quarter due to a higher default servicing cost and an increase in severance costs associated with the headcount reductions.

You can see in the majority of the other line items that we did continue to reduce cost with several exceptions. The first, in other general operating expense which increased $1.6 billion. That increase was due solely to an increase of $1.3 billion in litigation as well as elevated FDIC expense, which we would expect to go down in 2012.

The other two items of note the $581 million goodwill impairment for the European consumer card business and our professional fees which tend to be seasonally high during the fourth quarter of the year.

If we turn to slide 21, let me update you with where we are with respect to our New BAC program. We have completed the initial planning related to Phase 1 in the third quarter of 2011 and begin the implementation during the fourth quarter. Under our original guidance we have a goal of achieving approximately $5 billion in cost savings or about 18% of the expenses associated with the areas addressed.

We stated earlier that we were aiming for 20% of the $5 billion to be achieved during 2012. Based on the hard work done to date, we now believe we will exceed that 2012 goal.

Phase 2 evaluations for the areas outlined on page 21 began late in 2011 and we would expect to complete that work in April. As we look at the expense base it's similar to Phase 1, but we would expect lower cost savings given that the businesses tend to be more efficient already and have lower headcount. While the savings will be lower, we do think, however, that we will start being able to see some of those saves later this year as the initiatives to achieve the savings aren't as interdependent as the consumer businesses.

So if we take a step back and look at the lower headcount from the third quarter and combine that with New BAC, both Phase 1 and Phase 2, along with an improving mortgage environment, we believe we can realize substantial cost savings in the second half of this year. We are not going to identify a specific number on this call, but we will update you as we move further into the year.

We now move to credit trends that we saw during the quarter on slide 22. You can see that overall consumer trends remain positive. Net charge-offs, 30-plus performing delinquencies, and nonperforming assets all continued to fall. Net charge-offs in the credit card area declined more than any other portfolio, due in part to recoveries recorded to the bulk sale of previously charged off UK credit card loans.

Provision expense in consumer was $3.2 billion and included a $384 million reduction in reserves.

On slide 23 you can see that residential mortgage and home equity 30 to 89 day performing delinquent loans, excluding our fully-insured loans, were relatively flat with the third quarter. This was not unexpected as the fourth quarter has historically had slow collections.

On slide 24 we show nonperforming asset trends for both our residential mortgage and home equity area. Total Consumer Real Estate nonperformers trended down for the sixth quarter in a row. Residential mortgage declined from the third quarter as charge-offs, pay downs, and returns to performing status continue to outpace new nonaccrual loans.

Home equity loans did show a slight increase as inflows outpaced charge-offs and returns to performing status. The increase in NPAs was driven by growth in the greater than 180 days past due loans while the less than 180 day past due loans remained flat as delinquency inflows remained relatively stable quarter over quarter. As you may recall, loans greater than 180 days past due have already been written down to their net realizable value.

Turning to overall commercial credit quality on slide 25, the trends that we saw were very similar to what I referenced when I discussed the commercial bank. Including the provision for unfunded commitments we recorded a benefit to provision expense of $220 million that included a reserve reduction of $736 million. Both nonperforming asset and reservable criticized levels continued to decrease.

We flip to slide 26. We have included a slide on Basel III that we included when we reported our second-quarter earnings and I would make a couple points here. The first is we continue to work very hard as we work toward and progress towards Basel III at the end of 2012. You can see that significant progress in two different ways.

The first we had originally targeted getting our risk-weighted assets under Basel III down to $1.8 trillion by the end of 2012. We have updated that goal now to have risk-weighted assets down to $1.75 trillion.

In addition to the reduction in risk-weighted assets, based on the progress that we made during the quarter we now expect our Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III at the end of 2012 on a fully phased in basis to be between 7.25% and 7.5%, up from our previous guidance of 6.75% to 7%.

Let me know wrap up by spending a few moments discussing our expectations for 2012. I won't go into a lot of detail as the economic landscape is somewhat uncertain given the evolving events in Europe, the upcoming elections, and the speed around the recovery in the housing markets.

2012 we believe net interest income will remain somewhat challenged and will be highly dependent on the rate environment. While we expect consumer loans to continue to run off, this should be somewhat mitigated by loan growth in our commercial businesses. Additionally, we expect to benefit from continued reductions in the term debt footprint.

Most of the line items in our earnings report, whether it be card income, service charges, investment, or brokerage, tend to be very correlated with the economy. So if we see economic growth, we would expect that to translate into higher revenues. At this point Durbin is fully embedded in the fourth-quarter results so you have a solid base to work with there.

Investment banking, we would expect activities in 2012 to be fairly consistent with what we saw in 2011. As Brian referenced at the beginning, we would expect to see better results in sales and trading, but once again those tend to be pretty correlated to global market conditions and the health of the recovery.

Equity investment income we would expect to drop off considerably given the sale of the CCB shares that we had during 2011. On the expense side, in the first quarter we should start to see the positive impact of the fourth-quarter headcount reduction and the impact from New BAC.

Our goal for the fourth quarter of this year is to have sustainable cost savings, which would include not only certain New BAC Phase 1 and Phase 2 benefits, but also lowered expenses in LAS -- the benefits of reduced merger charges, lower costs associated with businesses we have exited, as well as other expense reduction initiatives. Credit quality should continue to improve over the next few quarters but at somewhat of a slower pace, and we would also expect to continue to see some reserve reductions.

Capital and capital ratio should continue to grow. What will drive that growth in 2012 will be mainly through earnings, and to a lesser extent, RWA levels throughout the year. We expect that most sales of business units are essentially complete, although there will be some targeted activity within certain selected areas.

We expect the effective tax rate to be around 30%, plus or minus, depending on any unusual items.

So in summary, as we enter 2012 we expect economic headwinds and low interest rates to persist while we continue to deal with legacy mortgage issues and ongoing regulatory changes. That being said, we enter 2012 with higher capital, liquidity, and combined reserves for credit, representations and warranties, and litigation than at any point in the Company's history.

With that why don't we go ahead and open up the line for questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. Can you talk about the commercial loan growth and how much is due to drawdown of existing credit lines versus expansion in new areas?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Let me just hit a couple points. One of the things we traditionally talk about, Mike, is our -- in our core middle market, because people look at that as a market for what middle market companies are doing and the draw rate, it is relatively consistent third quarter to fourth quarter, 32%. Down 100 basis points from a year ago, I think, round numbers and down maybe 800 or 900 basis points from where it would sit in a normalized economy.

So middle market companies are consistently drawing but haven't moved. In the larger corporate area we had some strong growth in the fourth quarter; I will have Bruce touch on that. But from a broad economy people are fairly stable and sitting there.

Bruce, why don't you touch on the higher --?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. If you look at -- particularly within the GBAM space I would make a couple observations. We saw growth in both regular way corporate loans as well as in the trade finance area, so that the growth that we saw was fairly widespread.

If you look at that growth by region, we saw some growth in the US and Canada, and we also saw a very nice growth in both the Latin America as well as the Asia-Pac region. In addition to that we also saw some growth within our mortgage area within the Global Banking and Markets area.

So not any one thing driving the growth. I would say the one area that was probably the strongest was trade finance, but it was fairly widespread throughout the business.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Mike, just one last observation. If you think about the capital markets driven activity in the higher grade stuff it has been very strong and the non-investment grade comes in and out really on the markets.

But I would say when I talk to sponsors and other people they are ready to go and for deals -- $4 billion or $5 billion transactions. There is a very strong demand to do them from the sponsor side. So I think if markets stay stable we could see some pretty good activity this year on that.

MIKE MAYO: Just one separate and last question. For new project BAC are you cutting enough? I guess if you look at results for last year revenues, reported were down $17 billion, expenses were down $3 billion, and so a big gap between the decline in revenues and decline in expenses. You can back out LAS and some other items; it still seems to be a pretty big negative gap.

So are you cutting as much as you need to? You have the structural project, but perhaps more cutting for the cycle, is that needed?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, as we are approaching the business which are more cyclical, i.e., the trading business, investment banking, you have seen in the press that been -- in advance of even doing the work on New BAC we reduced headcount fairly significantly in some of those areas where the opportunities weren't there. And that is more adjusting that business cost two ways. One is the comp cost you adjust down obviously and then, secondly, the headcount, so that has been going on.

I would say you need to be -- just to remind you and you know this, Mike, is that in the -- there is negative revenue. The rep and warranty cost is actually a negative revenue, so that has a fairly big impact. But as we look at it we are driving towards the right cost structure for the right run rate of revenues; this company over time will continue to drive at that.

You could always say could I go a little faster, go a little slower. But we need the balance, especially on the broad consumer business, the need to have good customer service, strong customer relationships, and continue to invest in the growth areas with getting the cost down.

So an example on the branches. You have seen the numbers; we have dropped to 5,700 from a high of 6,100. Our cost of operating our whole retail platform as a percent of deposits continues to work down, but we have to be careful to make sure the service quality as we do that is well managed.

So it's a balancing act. I question every day whether we get it exactly right; could you go a little faster, a little slower but the areas are really market sensitive. We have moved pretty quickly on cost. The other areas you have to be very careful and reengineer the work so you make sure that you can still do a great job for the customers.

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Bruce, was wondering on net interest income was there still some level of asset hedge ineffectiveness and prepay amortization in the fourth-quarter number? I know it was less than third, but was there something in fourth?

BRUCE THOMPSON: There was, John. I think if you look at the delta in net interest income really four main items I will give you a little bit more detail on. We have picked up $500 million of benefit during the quarter from less hedge ineffectiveness and prepays. We picked up $200 million to the positive based on lower debt footprint and our deposit pricing.

On the negative side we had about $200 million less because of the rates on our mortgage portfolio and about $200 million less due to be lower consumer card business, primarily credit card which included the sale of Canadian card that we didn't have in December. So if you take those four items that will give you the bridge, the change in net interest income for the quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: And do you think that you can grow net interest income from that level of $11 billion in the fourth quarter going forward? What is going to be the drivers?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think right now if you look at what we have seen during the third and the fourth quarter that that is reflective of the balance sheet and the rate structure today. And I think as you look forward the only things that are going to change those numbers going forward are primarily a change in interest rates and to the extent that we see a meaningful change in loan demand.

But as we look into 2012 I think the third and the fourth quarters give you the best jumping-off point, realizing that there was still some hedge ineffectiveness and FAS 91 in those.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So that is a good run rate and from there it depends on whether rates rise and whether loan growth picks up?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Similarly on expenses, when look at page 20 lots of details there and trying to just get a sense of what the run rate might be going into the first quarter. Taking out some of these specials it looks like maybe something similar to last quarter, a $17.2 billion to $17.4 billion, something like that.

I know you don't want to get too specific, but can you give us any kind of sense of where you might be entering the year with the expense base? I know you don't want to get specific about your targets, but where are you going to start off?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think that if you look at the recent quarters it bounces around a little bit based on GBAM revenues, GBAM performance, compensation and other things flowing through, as well as to the extent that there is severance or other things bouncing around. But I think $17 billion area without any kind of one timers or anything going through is probably the right starting point to think about, John.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then from there you expect to get the benefits in the second half from some of the LAS and the New BAC stuff, so that should improve later on in the year from that base?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, John, remember in that $17 billion type of number we are not -- Bruce is not eliminating the $2 billion of sort of core LAS operating costs. So we expect to see that come down, as I said in my comments, that come down in the core run rate. But we have to do this right and that is where we keep engineering the change quarter by quarter or by quarter.

The headcount reduction this quarter was part of the startup.

BRUCE THOMPSON: John, the only other thing I just want to make sure we highlight is, as we do each year and each first quarter, we have divesting of the stock compensation expense during the first quarter. And recall that that was about $1 billion during the first quarter of 2011 so I just don't want you to be surprised when you see that in the first quarter of 2012.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And you aren't including that when you said $17 billion?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct. I am not including that in the $17 billion, that is correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Last thing for me just on the rep and warrant issue, Bruce, where do we stand on changing GSE behavior? Is it more predictable? What was the nature of requests and denials that you got this quarter on the GSE front and do you have a sense of how much of the GSE claims you have addressed? Thank you.

BRUCE THOMPSON: If you go back and look at the disclosure we have back in the slide, I would say at this point -- we highlighted in the third quarter that there were some disagreements between the two parties, and I would say that there has really been no change in that perspective during the fourth. You can see the GSE unsolved balance went up a little bit during the quarter and, quite frankly, that wasn't unexpected.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR: Thank you very much. The $1.5 million(Sic-see press release) litigation expense this quarter, and I know you guys have been putting a lot of money away for litigation, but is this related to the AG settlement or is it just other various suits out there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: What it relates to -- I would say there are two significant items that we would include and I am not going to quantify them. You saw that we did have the fair lending settlement at legacy Countrywide prior to when Bank of America bought Countrywide that went through during the quarter.

And the second thing, you are correct, during the fourth quarter, while there is no DOJ AG settlement, you read what we read and we adjusted our litigation expense as well as our reserve levels to reflect the best that we could our understanding of what the deal may be.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Second question is asset quality. Charge-offs dropped $1 billion in the quarter, which I thought was a very good number. Was there some internal change? Are you pushing loans more through or are you just working loans out better? Is there anything, any color around that number?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Two things, the first is -- and I referenced is recall that we did sell during the quarter some of the loans in the UK that were written off. We did a little bit better than we would have expected, and that was about $300 million of the improvement. So we did have that one-time pop or one-time benefit.

But I would say that across the board -- on the consumer side we adjusted the underwriting standards back in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, and we are starting to see the benefits from those standards as the old stuff has flown through and the new stuff is becoming a greater percentage of the portfolio. Then on the commercial side and I would say across the board credit quality within the commercial space continues to be very strong and we continue to feel very good about commercial credit going forward.

The last thing I would say is that we have obviously reduced the size of the commercial real estate and, clearly, think we are on the other side of the commercial real estate charge-offs.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Nomura.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Thanks very much. Couple of quickies. You mentioned in the outlook commentary that you think you could beat the 20% achieved for Phase 1. I was just curious, bigger than a bread box, is that a lot more than the 20%, a little bit more than 20%? And maybe where you are seeing the acceleration of that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It was a constant focus, really going to the earlier comments, to accelerate anything we can that really is dependent on technology implementation. So when you look at the broad -- in 2012 we will spend $0.75 billion to get the cost saves type of number. So we are trying to accelerate the non-technology dependent, and that is the reference we gave you.

So we are ahead of schedule and we expect to stay ahead of schedule. Overall the numbers will come in the goals we gave you.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, that is fine. Curious on what you have baked in to both your credit loss assumptions and your reserves in terms of housing outlook. There has been some in the industry talking about a bottoming.

There is economic data that is getting better that is affordability metrics that are getting better, but you still have distressed inventory underwriting standards and the securitization markets have kind of frozen. Just general thoughts on housing bottoming and how you are positioned.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. Two things, the first on just credit across the Company. What I would expect, and I just want to make sure that we are clear, we would expect charge-offs to continue to improve during 2012 and at the same time you are probably likely to see reserve releases slow down. So from a net perspective the jumping-off point at the fourth quarter is a pretty good jumping off point as you think about credit for 2012.

With respect to the housing piece of it, we look at and look out at macro markets and look at what the expectations are there as we look at forecasting and looking at residential real estate. Those basically show a flat market throughout 2012. As we project through 2012 we don't really assume any significant move up or down, it's basically flat.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: From a pure activity standpoint we continue to see when we get a hold of our property we continue to see being able to move it in 60 to 90 days, and the activity is moving through the markets as the foreclosure rework was done and the activity. So we don't try to outguess the market; we use sort of the average and we adjust it for the places we have more loans.

But the reality is you continue to see the healing in the housing market every day in terms of the amount of activity and the amount of delinquencies and the process moving forward. And so I think it will just be a -- it's still a lot of hard work but you are seeing it move forward.

GLENN SCHORR: Appreciate that. Sticking with the housing theme, just curious if there is any update on the private label potential settlement and just maybe where are we in those conversations and what is the next event timing wise.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Really no change with anything that you see out there, which I think we are expecting to see by the end of February the venue that the case will be decided. Basically what you see out there is the same thing that we see and our sense is we will have a little bit better sense where the venue is by the end of February.

GLENN SCHORR: And is it Delaware versus New York, is that the battle line?

BRUCE THOMPSON: State versus federal.

GLENN SCHORR: State federal, sorry. (multiple speakers) It got bumped up, that is right.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Decisions in the second circuit, our expectation is somewhere in the next 45 days or so they will make a decision of whether state in the federal court or go to state court.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Last quickie is in the summary slide you showed $5.6 billion of pretax, pre-provision, but that is before a lot of -- all these one-timers. There is a lot of moving parts but curious if you have a thought on what a clean jumping off point is for pretax, pre-provision going into 2012 as we factor in your thoughts on expenses and we can make our own choices on the market.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think what I would say is the cleanest way to think about it is if you take the $5.6 billion and you adjust for the items are down below, you get to a number that is in and around $4 billion. And as we look forward and as we look to build off of that $4 billion you have obviously got a series of things that we look at going forward.

We clearly would expect the trading and investment banking revenues to be better in 2012 than what we saw here. We have obviously got New BAC Phase 1 that is beginning to kick in during 2012. As we have talked about, New BAC 2 will kick in quicker than 1, probably towards the end of the year.

You have got improvements towards the end of the year in the Legacy Asset Services cost and then you have got any improvement that we see from the rate environment. So I think as you look at those numbers, that is probably the best jumping off point. And we are obviously working hard to drive those improvements with the categories that I just went through.

GLENN SCHORR: Excellent. Thanks for all of those answers.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. A couple of questions, one on the housing. In the past you have given the P&L hit of a 1% or a 5% decline in home prices. I realize that your outlook is for stable, but given some of the changes that you have done in your business and asset sales, etc., I am wondering how that P&L hit has changed?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It hasn't changed that much, Betsy. Right now we are looking at a 1% hit being about $450 million. That is comprised between $125 million and $150 million in our purchase credit impaired portfolio, about $200 million through reps and warrants, and about $125 million through the property values that get refreshed each quarter, would be the way I would think about it.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then you also gave a data point here on the servicing book and 8% decline in delinquent loan service. Can you give an update on what portion of the total servicing book is delinquent?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We can get you that. It is in the details. I will have Lee call you with it.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then last on severance, did you break out what the severance dollars were in the quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We did not, but I can give those to you. We had about $186 million of severance during the third quarter, and that jumped up to about $239 million during the fourth quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and that was split between the different business lines or how would I segment that between the business lines?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Split between the business lines, the most significant piece you are going to see there is within the Global Banking and Markets area.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys. So was just hoping to get some more granular color on the improved Basel III guidance. Is the driver of that improvement there mostly the numerator improvement we saw this quarter? Can you give some color maybe on a contribution from an expansion in the RWA mitigation plans that you highlighted; any chance for more detail there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think if you think about -- and the way that I would think about is that there are a lot of pluses and minuses. But if you go to page 7 where we show you the balance sheet data, we show you that Tier 1 common equity has gone up by about $9 billion during the quarter.

In addition to that we have changed our guidance on the risk-weighted asset side by about $50 billion. So I think if you take those two changes, realize we would have had some increase in our common equity in our original numbers flowing through the income statement that if you look at those two line items and think about that in the context of $1.75 trillion to $1.8 trillion those are going to get you to about the 50 basis point increase in the guidance that we have given.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. And then thinking about monoline exposure and the capital relief that we saw from another firm announcing a settlement, when you sort of back into the risk weights there it implies maybe 600% to 700% risk weight for monoline exposure.

Would that -- is it right to think about that sort of a risk weight for you guys? Do you get a similar risk weight when you think about your monoline exposure? And is that exposure limited to the $1.9 billion that you disclosed in the last Q plus that $0.5 billion in CVA?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I can't speak to -- and I saw the Morgan Stanley disclosure that I think you are referencing. I can't speak to exactly how they are doing it. What I can say is that if you look at and in our supplemental package we show a breakout of our monoline exposure.

We did take a couple hundred million dollars in the quarter of hits through the banking and markets area for monoline exposure, and you can see at the end of the year, I believe, back in the supplemental page, we show ourselves at about $1.3 billion of net exposure from a monoline perspective after CVA. And once again, we did take a couple hundred million dollars of expenses during the fourth quarter.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: But is it right to think about it -- a risk weight that would be in the neighborhood of 700% on that exposure? For Basel III?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's probably a little bit higher than that, quite frankly.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, thanks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: But the one thing -- remember the difference between our capital base size-wise and other people's capital base is one of the different effects here.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Sure.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We are dealing with $120 billion of Tier 1 common, so it's just a different type of number.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Right, proportionately different piece of the puzzle.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Exactly.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Jefferson Harralson, KBW.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KBR: I was going to follow-up on that kind of line of thought. When you think about the total risk-weighted asset shrinking $172 billion year over year or $75 billion quarter to quarter can you just talk about kind of what that is and what revenues are associated with that decline?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. Let's go to the fourth quarter I think is probably the best place to start. If you start on page eight and let's just go through the individual items to give you a sense.

The preferred exchanges, while we have put the shares out there, there will be a nominal P&L effect by virtue of having lower interest expense and lower preferred dividends.

The CCB sale during the fourth quarter as well as the one that we did in the third quarter, there have been some things written out there publicly about the impact that that is over $700 million of a loss of revenues that go through. I think when you think about CCB you have to think about the offset to that, which is by virtue of doing that there was over $14 billion of liquidity that came into the parent company that basically will offset, from an interest expense perspective, the loss in preferred dividends that we would have had through that business.

You move over to Canadian card. While the business clearly had PP&R associated with it, once you get down to the bottom line from a net income perspective the net income contribution of the Canadian card business was nominal.

You continue to move through the right-hand side of (technical difficulty) page, net income and DTA is what it is. The reductions in market risk; as you think about those reductions in market risk and work through that roughly two-thirds of that reduction in market risk were certain assets that were legacy and other securitization type assets that we had targeted to sell that from a net income perspective didn't contribute that much.

About one-third of the 18 basis points in market risk would have been VAR and other things that tend to ebb and flow with market activity. So to the extent that the markets get better in 2012 there could be 5 to 10 basis points that comes back on there and, quite frankly, we would welcome that because it would be suggestive of the markets getting better.

You then move over to the asset sales and changes in loans. On a net basis the biggest piece of that is our run-off portfolio within the consumer businesses and the contribution from that run-off portfolio once again is very nominal.

Then, lastly, you move over to the 12 basis points of the other. Some of that is mono related some of that is measurement related and I think some of it's just, quite frankly, us doing a better job as it relates to how we approach Basel I measurement. And there were some offsets on the other side.

So as you go through this, the impact and to say that we are going to see any meaningful change in income based on what we did in the fourth quarter we just don't see that. Recognizing that to the extent that the capital markets and the global markets come back you may see a little bit of a bump up there, but other that these are good numbers and there shouldn't be a significant revenue impact outside of what I just talked about.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: All right, great. Thanks, guys.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Just make sure -- there is revenue impacts but after charge-offs in a lot of these portfolios there is no bottom line. And that is the thing I think it has not been clear to people and so hopefully Bruce just clarified that for you.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. Let me warn you in advance it's a long question.

The settlement with the AGs, which once again is rumored to be near, Brian, in your view does this mark some -- if we get this will this mark some kind of watershed event that will lead to sort of a quickening of the pace of the resolution of other issues out there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think in the work that has gone on to develop that settlement you have had the major servicers and then obviously the representatives of the Department of Justice and the state AGs and HUD and others work together to come up with a package of programs that we believe will be very positive in pushing the situation forward. So I think you are right.

In hindsight we will decide whether it's watershed or not a year from now, but I think that the intent of those programs is to actually help drive the recovery in housing and how to handle customers. So I think that combined with all the other programs and the million modifications we have done, that combined with -- whether you agree housing is up or down -- but the general stability and, frankly, the passage of time and working through it I think these are good things. That is why we have wanted -- we and the rest of the industry have been trying to work this out really to provide that catalyst to keep pushing the mortgage situation forward.

So I think you are exactly right, Nancy.

NANCY BUSH: Well, then part B of that, if we get this settlement and things start to resolve, then does profitability at your company sort of go on some kind of stair step move up? Is there going to be some dramatic move upward as the housing issues get worked out?

I mean are legacy costs going to come down that quickly, lessening of litigation reserves, etc., etc.? Is there going to be some point at which there is a big change in profitability at Bank of America?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, if you just -- the question is how fast does it come through, because just to implement the settlement and the work will take a series of months and quarters. But I think the theme is exactly right.

If you think about the drag in 2011, so we made a few billion dollars in the fourth quarter, we had $1.5 billion loss on our Consumer Real Estate business. For the year we made $1 billion plus and we had substantial losses in the real estate business that you can see. So if you take those losses out the core run rate of the Company is embedded and is running every quarter. The businesses we have that are performing are driving profit.

This has been a huge, huge drag for this company, both from an expense side and then a charge-off side and everything else. So it will come that way. I just caution you, Nancy, to realize that this is a lot of work, a lot of people, and a lot of particularly difficult, because of what is involved and people and their homes and stuff, that we have got to work through right. So I just caution on the speed, but the principle is right.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. And just a question for you, Bruce. You mentioned a reduction in FDIC expenses in 2012. Can you quantify that or just give us some color about what the expenses were in 4Q and how they should step down?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I would think about it as we got through fourth quarter there was a true-up. And as we go forward we would expect that expense to be down a couple hundred million dollars in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter.

NANCY BUSH: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Thanks. Good morning. You talked about the LAS costs coming down and you broke that $3.5 billion down into sort of $1.5 billion of litigation, $2 billion core. Can you give us any sense of what you think sort of a long-term run rate or normalized level is for that $2 billion core?

I know you are probably reluctant to talk about the timing of getting there, but when you do get there, maybe even a few years away, what would be the right number to think about that $2 billion going to?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So I think, Ed, to frame that think about the 60-plus delinquent units and the progress we made this year and the progress we ultimately got to get to to get to more, quote, normalized levels. That will take the next six, eight quarters to get through that. But when you get down to that level the number should be more in the $300 million a quarter versus $2 billion from the operating cost side.

And so a reasonable amount to service those loans, even under the heightened servicing duties that will be embedded in the way you service delinquent loans going forward is that kind of number. I just again say it's going to take us time to work through that.

You see the progress we have made this year. You see the flows coming in, flowing because of on the whole servicing portfolio in terms of the improving delinquency. Then moving the stuff through the process. So I think that is what you are looking for, from a $2 billion down to maybe a $300 million a quarter type of number.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, that is helpful. Then second question would be on interest-bearing deposits. Unlike other banks, we saw a pretty big step down in interest-bearing deposits. I know some of that was probably intentional CD run-off but it really happened in most deposit categories.

Any color on that? And in your mind did that have anything to do with sort of the snafu around the charge related to debit cards that you then took back?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Let's start from the broad strokes. We saw an elevated level of account closings in the quarter, elevated from last year fourth quarter but, frankly, by I would say 20% versus last year fourth quarter 2010 to 2011. But from 2009 it's actually still down in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus fourth quarter of 2009 by 20-odd-percent.

So you saw that so there is no question. That is why we pulled it back and once we pulled it back you saw that mitigate, so that will carry us into the first quarter. But from a deposit strategy just remember overall a couple things.

One is, if you look at our deposit pricing, we have been very conservative. Those rates have stayed low to make sure that we continue to bring that pricing down. In the retail world we are down to 20-odd-basis-points.

If you look even in the high net worth world we are down in that pricing, and what we have made the decision was to have our customers you can see in some of the short-term flows use the off-balance-sheet vehicles and things like that as opposed to on-balance-sheet. So that was a strategy also.

There is a third part of this, which is our balance sheet financing construct. With $1 trillion-plus in deposits, with the amount of equity we have is that our banks are extremely liquid and so taking wholesale-oriented deposits, both domestically and internationally, we have been just cutting that back dramatically.

So if you look in the fourth quarter there is about a $20 billion deposit reduction that was engineered off of foreign time deposits and things like that that overwhelms the good core activities in the businesses really because we just can't use the liquidity. We are in a sense at our bank level, because liquidity is so strong and as we are downsizing assets we are creating more of it, and it's a negative carry.

So you can see our overall liquidity numbers timed to acquire funding is going up while reducing the aggregate amount of deposits from this more funding characteristic.

So I would say that, yes, we had some impact from the $5 debit fee. That is why we made the decision to reverse it. Those impacts in the scheme of things will be manageable, but more importantly, the real deposit phenomenon is we are seeing growth.

There is no question as we saw the second half of the quarter more stability around the markets. The company, we saw it kick up even in the corporate side, but the real engineering deposits have been both general rate conservatism, i.e, making sure we are making money for the shareholders and doing a good job for the customers, but more importantly on the more [wholesale steps] sort of bringing it down because frankly we can't put the money to work right now.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks. That is helpful. Then finally about $21 billion of government insured mortgages that are 90 days past due, I think the whole analyst community is wondering what the risk around the guarantees on that are.

I know that question has been asked on a lot of calls to a lot of companies and it's -- just sort of everyone's answer is, well, they are guaranteed. Do you have any more color around that risk other than just sort of saying, well, we think the guarantees are there?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think the only thing I would say to that I think is really just further support of that. That a fairly healthy chunk of the guarantees are from product that was purchased from correspondents, and when it's purchased from the correspondent it's wrapped by the government guarantee at that point.

So we feel very good about the fact that it's wrapped. That was the basis on a significant chunk of those that the wrap was around them when we purchased it and we clearly haven't seen anything that would suggest any differently.

ED NAJARIAN: But you are not getting any feedback from the FHA or from any other kind of government entities that those guarantees could be at risk in conjunction with any kind of servicing issues that might be happening on those particular loans?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No. I think -- we do continue to work through the servicing piece of that with the FHA to make sure that we are in conformance with their standards when we go through the foreclosure process, but that is separate and distinct from the fact that those mortgages have the FHA guarantee.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. If I could just follow up on the expenses. You have given a lot of color in terms of the initiatives and the puts and takes, but as we think about the full year I guess you have got $17 billion run rate, $1 billion of stock expense in 1Q.

And then just how quickly does the $17 billion come down throughout the year? Obviously the capital markets is a wildcard, but maybe you can just help frame what expenses will look like for the rest of the year as well.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think you would expect to see more of it in the second half, largely because of the LAS piece as you can see the rate of working it down comes through. And I think it's -- the severance costs and stuff help offset the incremental quarter to quarter move, but I would say we have got plans to bring it down over the course of the year.

Because of FAS, the 123R expense in the first quarter the reported number would not be much but you would see that core run rate go down almost linked quarter -- quarter, quarter, quarter, quarter -- but it will be a little more backend loaded just because the LAS piece takes us getting through -- remember we have got the foreclosure look back which costs us $20 million a month or more in there. You got some other things that you got to get through to get to the other side of it.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And just in terms of magnitude, any numbers you can put like where you think you might be on a run rate basis by the end of 2012?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Matt, we --I don't think we would answer that one.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately, in the mortgage business you had some kind of MSR gains, I think about $1.2 billion or so. How much of that was from hedging? And then it seems like that might have included gains on selling MSRs, which is -- I guess that helps in multiple ways, but if you could just split out the hedge gains versus the gain on sale.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I would say a couple things. If you think about the MSR, when we went into the fourth quarter we continually look at and look to balance where interest rates are, where mortgage rates are, and what declines in interest rates will do relative to mortgage pre-pays. And so with rates very low in the fourth quarter we lightened up a little bit on the hedge ratio. Rates obviously went back up and we benefited from that.

The other thing I would say is that as we looked at and saw actual pre-pay speeds during the fourth quarter based on the interest rate assumptions that the pre-payments were not coming in as quickly as we would have expected, and so we adjusted our models to reflect that. As you think about those two numbers, I would think about the $1.2 billion being split about 50/50 between the two.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then I guess the sales from MSRs was not meaningful in terms of --?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, I mean sometimes you lose a few bucks, sometimes you make a few bucks, but what we have seen is that the sales that have happened had been generally consistent with where we are marked. Obviously the real benefit, and I go back to the slide that we show that we track the number of loans and delinquencies, the goal is to continue to shrink the LAS business as quickly as possible so we can get at the expense. And that is really what the MSR sales accomplished, not so much any real gain.

MATT O'CONNOR: And I guess taking that to the next level, you have exited or winding down the correspondent business but obviously you still have all the loans serviced and, therefore, the MSR. Is there an opportunity to offload that portfolio which would help make the Basel III capital by a decent amount?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I would say across the board we continue to be aggressive and looking to move the MSRs. I think if you look at -- we are starting to see more people bring these kind of packages to the market so we feel good that we got out in front of this early and that we moved a significant amount of MSRs.

I think the other thing that you referenced to keep in mind is that we have reduced -- over the course of the last six months our MSR as we look forward to Basel III is down over $5 billion. It had been up around $12 billion or over $12 billion and we are now in the mid-$7 billions. So we are continuing to work that down.

I don't think you should expect to see as much sale activity over the next couple quarters as what we saw close in the fourth quarter, because a lot of what closed in the fourth quarter were things that were signed up in the third.

MATT O'CONNOR: Do you think it's possible -- a lot of the big banks are trying to reduce the MSRs because of the Basel III restrictions. I mean are the policy makers sensitive that if all the big banks are getting out of MSRs there is not really enough capacity to absorb it all and that could increase the cost of homeownership and mortgage rates probably?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's not appropriate for me to comment on what the policymakers are seeing. I do think that the one thing that is interesting is that obviously the large servicers have certain standards that are prescribed by the different bank regulators that we have signed for as part of the consent decree. Obviously a lot of these sales do go to people that are not subject to that same regulation and scrutiny, and I think going forward it will be interesting to see how that landscape evolves.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer & Co.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Just in the supplement looking at the segment disclosure for Global Banking and Markets the allocated capital and economic capital is down 30% to 40% year over year. Allocated capital down from 47% to 33%; economic capital from 37% to 23%. And I guess two-part question.

Part one is somehow that doesn't seem to sync with the actual reduction in risk-weighted assets yet that we have seen. I mean why is the capital going down so much more if the risk-weighted assets are kind of going down in tandem? Then, secondly, I guess the question is if you look at the economic capital there of $23 billion is that enough capital to run a world-class investment bank, given that JPMorgan allocates $40 billion and Morgan Stanley has $40 billion of tangible common and Goldman has $60 billion?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think you are now comparing a lot of different things because there is other operations that are supported whether it's Goldman or Morgan Stanley. But we have a consistent methodology. As the legacy assets have gone out, from an economic capital cost that has been a very efficient, for lack of a better term, reduction.

The RWA may be -- under Basel I may be 100% risk weighted or things, but the economic -- we have an economic analysis that we look at and the risk embedded in that. As you get to Basel II and III those things come in sync, as you know. So the equity has come down.

Let me be clear, if this unit wanted more capital we would give them more capital. I think Bruce was clear about that. And so they are -- whether it's their value of risk or whether it's their capital this is really due to the opportunities and things going on.

So there is drivers in the credit quality that has improved dramatically over the last four quarters in the unit. There is drivers from the legacy assets, think of things in there from the monoline positions we talked about. The auction rate notes we talked about, the CEO positions being liquidated and taken out, and then on top of that there is -- they brought risk down because the opportunities aren't there to do it.

We expect that risk, the good core risk, the risk we want to go back up and, as Bruce said, 5, 7 basis points of capital (inaudible) because implied in that would be making money as opposed to losing money on the trading side. So don't think that this is a -- this is an outcome of a model that we run all the time and run it consistently as opposed to a limit on our capital or anything like that.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think the other thing I would say if you look at the decrease, the one thing and we disclosed in the second quarter that I think you have to keep in mind is that the Bank of America Merchant Services business was moved from the GBAM business to the Commercial business. At the time that it was moved it was over $5 billion of value. That is pure equity.

So a significant piece, you are right, that came down was by virtue of a business being moved not necessarily what was actually going on within the trading businesses.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: And if I guess going -- well, both looking back over the past year and looking forward, if you look at the risk-weighted asset mitigation can you break that up into how much of that is just getting rid of legacy assets that no longer support any current business purpose versus actually trimming back the capital lines to the various trading desks?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think I tried to address that when we spoke to the reductions in market risk during the fourth quarter and we talked about two-thirds of it within the market risk being from getting rid of certain positions, including the securitization as well as some of the structured credit.

So once again I think about that market risk number being two-thirds stuff that we wanted to be done with and one-third there were less opportunities. Like I said, hopefully -- so far the first couple weeks in January we have seen more opportunities so that number could come back but two-thirds of that should be gone.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thanks. That is all for me.

OPERATOR: Matthew Burnell, Wells Fargo Securities.

MATTHEW BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. I just wanted to follow up on Bruce's comments on the MSR. I understand what you are saying about what appears to be an MSR hedge benefit in the quarter. I guess I am just curious in an interest rate declining environment to write-up the MSR seems a little counterintuitive, particularly given that a couple of your competitors in the -- large competitors in the mortgage business didn't do that.

Then I guess as a follow up on that, if you end up getting the AG settlement or the industry ends up getting the AG settlement that is rumored to be near, does that -- do you think that will require you and other industry participants to materially write down your MSRs from that specific event?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Two things. We don't see the industry settlement affecting the MSRs.

The second thing, with respect to the MSR valuation, I would make a couple points. The first is that while rates did decrease the pre-payment activity that we saw relative to expectations was less.

The second thing I think you have to keep in mind is that our MSR went from 52 to 54 basis points during the quarter, which is significantly lower than all of our peers. And I think if you look at the remainder of our peers, generally people either wrote it up or wrote it down within a 5 basis point window during the fourth quarter, so I think we were very consistent with what we saw. But, importantly, as far as the capitalization rate, we are the lowest in the industry.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Okay. Then if I could just ask a question on Europe. It looks like your exposure to the peripheral countries really didn't change very much quarter over quarter from your disclosure. I guess I am just curious as to some of the recent trends that have occurred since the beginning of the year if that has what made you feel a little bit more sanguine about what is going on in Europe, and if that is flowing through your view of sales and trading and other opportunities for Bank of America this year.

BRUCE THOMPSON: You ask an interesting question, and I think if you think about what we have talked about the last couple quarters that we moved fairly aggressively within the Global Banking and Markets area in 2010 to be positioned to where we wanted to be in Europe and I think got out ahead of it very early. But your point is exactly right, which is as we look at our company and our results that the single largest thing or how we are affected by what goes on in Europe is the activity levels that we see within our Global Banking and Markets area here in the US.

Your point, I think, is a good one that obviously November and December, given the volatility, were very difficult. The new issue market slowed down and it was tougher to trade. As we have seen in some of the programs and at least some of the resolution that has happened over the course of the last couple of weeks, if you look out into the fixed income markets they have picked up significantly. The IPO backlog, if there is a market, is significant and if you look at the loan business we are seeing good flows there.

So we are only 2.5 weeks into the year, but clearly some of what has happened in Europe and how people are feeling better there has manifested itself into stronger capital markets and sales and trading during the first part of this year.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Then just one final question. Could you update us on the status of the European card portfolio sale? And if you were to sell that, what your expectation is in terms of the Tier 1 common benefit?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think if you look at the aggregate of the portfolio it's about $15 billion in risk-weighted assets. The only thing I would say at this point is that we continue to look, to go through the process.

Outcomes are stating the obvious. We may do nothing, we could look at all of it, or there could be a piece of it that goes. But as we go through this process, given the capital and liquidity that we have, we are going to do what makes sense and just not sell something for the sake of selling it.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt, Evercore Partners.

ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Morning, guys. Wanted to ask about capital and the upcoming CCAR process. It seems like, based on your commentary, that this year will be focused on capital build and expense control. Is it safe to assume that again you will not be asking for any deployment for 2012?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We would be clear with you; we are not going to ask until we make sure that we are well-positioned for Basel III so your assumption is correct.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay, thanks. And then in terms of the upping of your capital target on a Basel III basis by the end of this year, does that kind of show the confidence that you have in terms of not only earnings and the risk-weighted assets coming down, but that there is more room to grow and that you can really show improved kind of a roadmap to being in Basel III compliance through this process as well so that there is no additional actions that may need to be taken?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I would say two things. I think increasing the guidance first is reflective of the work that we did this quarter and how we accelerated the capital build. Once again, if you go back to the balance sheet side you can see that we increased our Basel I capital, our common equity, by $9 billion. You should assume that the Basel III number was very close to that.

So I think the first thing is that the raising the guidance in large part was reflective of how we accelerated the actions that we did during the fourth quarter.

The second thing to your point, obviously bringing down the amount of risk-weighted assets that we think we have at the end of 2012 is reflective of your comment. And the third thing I would say is that we have had this capital team together now for the better part of the year and I would say we are very pleased with how the team is working. The more you get into this the more you tend to find, and we are working very hard to drive that forward.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would say that the other thing, moving past 2012 and beyond, you have to remember that we have been working for the last couple years to think about -- as Basel III became clearer in 2010 and into 2011 and the SIFI and all the stuff became clearer, we had to be thinking long term about how you keep positioning the Company. If you think about the three major deducts from the numerator -- the financial institutions stakes, [BMSR], the DTA -- we have done a lot of work on two of those. The DTA will come down as we earn, so there is leverage in that past 2012 and out into before the deducts become effective there is leverage in that.

And if you look at the -- as Bruce ran through the denominator, the piece that, Andrew, that people have to keep in mind is that this doesn't stop at 12/31/12. The process goes on. So there is portfolios, like the run-off portfolio, and the credit book that was at a high of 120, is down round numbers now 90; runs about $4 billion, $5 billion a quarter. It will continue to run over that time period.

There are things like the structured credit trading book. There are other ways to optimize beyond that. So what we are getting as we do the work that Bruce said and the work we have done the last couple of years is attacking the biggest things first. But there is a lot of, for lack of a better term, smaller things that you just keeping working on, working on, a lot of which is not core to what we do day-to-day. And that is what we have been pushing through.

So you should expect us to continue to manage this as we have and continue to drive it forward.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. So it sounds like there are still some [tikitak] mitigation to go, but nothing major and it sounds like one shouldn't be concerned about kind of a major kind of action in response to a CCAR stress test?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Right.

KEVIN STITT: We have one more question I think.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Yes. And then just separately, just to pile on to the many questions on expenses. Just want to be clear, so expense leverage there is some this year but obviously top line is going to be more muted and mixed.

Do you need to have the capital markets businesses recover before you get positive operating leverage this year? Or is there enough expense leverage to get there regardless?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think if you look at -- in the last couple quarters if you break out the GBAM and you can see in revenue the corporate banking profit there is really fairly stable and moves along. And so we lost $400 million after-tax in that business this quarter. We need that business to come back or we got to do more on expenses, so we have taken some expenses down.

So I think that that -- but coming back from the third quarter to the fourth quarter, taking out all the DVAs, you saw the results recover even in another difficult quarter. So coming back doesn't mean back to some level that it was at the high point in the first quarter of 2010 or something like that. Coming back means $3.5 billion, $4 billion of revenue and we start making money.

That is a lot of leverage in the platform because effectively between $2.5 billion, $2.75 billion you are under pressure to make -- that is where you kind of breakeven and start making money as a practical sense on a pure trading side. So we need that but if we don't get it we would have to do -- go to the other side. And that is what this New BAC 2 process is working on is what is sort of the right, for lack of a better term, fixed cost structure, even though a lot of it's variable for comp, but what is the right fixed cost structure given what we see in the market conditions and the opportunities.

So we have moved early on just sort of the marginal get it down, get some people, get some expenses down, but then more fundamentally how do we reset the base. And so -- but we do need that to get some of the positive operating leverage. The rest of the businesses, as you look at the consumer side and stuff, they have been ground down by the revenue changes and now we got to grind -- move forward from there.

But if you look at the businesses, whether it's wealth management, whether it's Global Commercial Banking, whether it's card, you can see those businesses performing well and they will keep clicking along. It's really fixed and mortgage getting it back to profitability, getting the trading back to profitability, and starting to build off of $150 million base in retail.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Great, thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: One more question I think we had.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Actually part of what I was going to ask, Brian, was about the mitigation results post 2012, because that is something you have spoken about before.

But in terms of -- on the mortgage side, just going back to that for a second, in the reps and warranties you mentioned that no significant change or no unexpected change from the GSEs. But you did note a little bit of a build in the amount of unprocessed claims and yet you brought the reserve down.

So what is it actually that you saw that allowed you to bring the reserve down? Was it kind of passage through more of the book? How should we think about that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: The only reason -- if you think about the reserve, the reason that the reserve comes down is that because, to the extent that you settle up and in pacing that you believe that you have owed, it comes out of the reserve and the reserve comes down.

I think the other thing I would say is that, as we said, we have $250 million, $275 million of rep and warrant expense. So the reserve coming down was reflective of paying those things that were expected and accrued for, and then obviously we had a couple hundred million of expense over and above that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Moshe, remember this is a little different than other things you can think about in a P&L in a financial service company in that there is really a sealed book of 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 originations that you are working against. And so the expectation is as you -- you have provided for all the activity you expect to see out of that whole pool, so you are going to work this reserve down every quarter because you are using it to pay for stuff that you calculated in your expectation.

So it's different than credit or other stuff in that that is an expected outcome because it's a sealed book. When you look at the originations from 2009 forward to 2010 the delinquencies in our portfolios, as Bruce said earlier, are much better than you would have expected when you were originating in 2009. So at the end of the day if the loan doesn't ever become delinquent we don't talk -- this isn't a problem.

The quality of the origination practices and stuff, the products themselves, etc. So this is really a 2004, 2008 -- really 2004, 2007, quite frankly -- sealed bid. Then on the private-label side we didn't -- the private-label market stopped in 2008, so you really are looking at a sealed group of loans and that is why I would expect the reserves to come down.

And agreed, as there is more impasse we are consistently applying standards of resolving and people are more aggressive on what they put to us there will be more impasse. And we will deal with it over time.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay. And just a follow up on the AG settlement. Obviously one of the things they have talked about a lot is principal reduction. How do you think about that as it relates to kind of current rate of charge-offs, the amount that is sitting in your reserve, and the prospective charge-offs? How do you think a change there is going to impact those items?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have been doing this -- we have been doing principal reductions for a number of years now and the thing it has -- it all is based on a situation that the assessment is the net present value from that is better than the alternative, which would be to foreclose and take it through for the investors. And so I think that is a clear determinant of what the better value is and that is the basis of how you make the determination.

So I think it's -- overall, as I said before, I think reaching a solution here it would be positive, as Nancy talked about earlier, but it's a rationale set of criteria to get to these issues.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I just want to be clear and I referenced it earlier, the reserves and where we are at year-end with respect to the credit reserves within the mortgage business are reflective of our expectations from what we know now of what comes out of the DOJ AG settlement.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Thanks very much.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you, everybody.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect at this time. Thank you and have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c26 : Product Safety | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120202e81j00231
  


 HD
 Q3  2011  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,870 words
   PD
18 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode and later, you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session. Please note this call is being recorded and I will be standing by should you need any assistance. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Kevin Stitt. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORP.: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.

These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our business. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents and with that, let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORP.: Good morning and thank you for joining us. Today, we reported net income of $6.2 billion, or $0.56 a share after preferred dividends. There were a lot of moving parts that impacted numbers and we will get to those through the discussion here. In addition, our earnings benefited from our own credit spreads widening relating to the positive fair value adjustments and DVA gains. Those items Bruce will cover, along with the other significant items in the rest of the presentation.

Our core revenues continue to be adversely impacted by a challenging environment as low interest rates and the European debt crisis persists. It was especially evident in our fixed-income trading results for the quarter.

But as we think about the third quarter, I think of three core areas. One of the areas is a continuation of the massive strategic repositioning of our franchise. Another of the areas is the core operating platform's progress that we made in the quarter in each line of business and a third area is a focus on the slow economy and its impact on how we are going to run the Company going forward.

So let's first talk about the first area -- the strategic transformation of the Company. During the quarter, we made steady progress repositioning our business to focus on our core customers and clients. We finalized the reconfiguration of our credit card business that we began in 2009 to focus solely on our US core credit card customers exiting non-US portfolios such as Spain and Canada and announcing the exit of the UK. We also sold off some of the financial institutions platforms in the United States, which enabled competitors to offer cards to compete against us.

In our mortgage area, we have exited our correspondent, previously exited our wholesale channels, which, when you put it all together, focuses us solely on a direct retail channel. This is a position, which enables us to serve our core customer base and do it on a base that is consistent with driving our franchise.

In addition to the repositioning of those businesses, we have taken all our consumer businesses from our core consumer business through our wealth management businesses and put them under our new -- one of our co-CEOs, David Darnell, to drive those businesses on a customer and client-focused basis.

During the quarter, we also sold half our interested in CCB, lowered our private equity investment substantially and made further progress on non-core asset dispositions.

As we move from the strategic transformation of the Company to the lines of business, we continue to see momentum in our core lines of business. We extended approximately $141 billion in credit for the third quarter. Our average deposits continue to grow. Our average commercial loans increased in all our regions; although our consumer loans are still declining, mainly in the non-core areas. Our net checking accounts grew for the third consecutive quarter and attrition remains low.

We are seeing good progress with initiatives to grow through adding financial services advisers in our branches and small-business bankers in our broad consumer areas. We are seeing steady progress in our wealth management businesses -- US Trust and Merrill Lynch. We are continuing to add advisers and push forward in these market-leading areas.

We continue to see solid performance in our commercial and corporate lending businesses, including Global Commercial Bank and Global Corporate Investment Bank. In addition, we retained our second-place position in investment banking and produced solid international customer growth in that area. Our credit quality and delinquencies continue to improve while reserve coverage remains at high levels.

As we think about the third area we are focused on, how to manage in the slow or long-term recovery, we are doing everything we can to continue to position the earnings of our Company as we look forward. We continue to focus on driving growth in select areas, very select areas, but we are also focused on reducing expenses. Expenses remain elevated in large part due to the nearly $2 billion in quarterly operating expenses at Legacy Asset Servicing.

We hit our peak in headcount in July across the entire Company, are now managing down across all areas. LAS is at its peak staffing level. More of that overall staffing reduction should come through the bottom line.

Our New BAC efficiency initiative is making progress. During the quarter, we completed a Phase 1 evaluation and now we are implementing and you will see the results as we come through the fourth quarter. The Phase 2 evaluation begins this month and it will bear strong fruit. With that, let me turn it over to Bruce to go through the financials.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORP.: Thanks, Brian and good morning, everyone. If I can ask you to flip to page 5 and we will start on the income statement. As Brian referenced, we made $6.2 billion for the quarter or $0.56 a share and these numbers were affected by several significant items that I will walk you through and go through in more detail as we get into the presentation.

The quarter did include a credit mark on structured liabilities under fair value option that resulted in a positive mark of $4.5 billion as a result of our credit spreads widening and as you look at our financials, you will see that in other income. Keep in mind, that mark, whether it be positive or negative, does not impact regulatory capital ratios such as Tier 1 Common, but does affect GAAP capital.

The widening of our credit spreads also generated a DVA gain of $1.7 billion related to our trading liabilities within our global banking and markets business and I will get into more detail on that later in the presentation.

Our equity investments had a net $1.4 billion in gains, driven primarily by two sale transactions and a writedown. As Brian referenced, we did sell half of our investment in CCB for $8.3 billion in proceeds. That generated a pretax gain of $3.6 billion. Our sale of China Construction Bank equity investments would have been a negative $2.2 billion.

As we move to net interest income, we had two areas that negatively affected net interest income. The first was hedge ineffectiveness, a negative $600 million, as well as a negative $400 million associated with the acceleration of amortization of premiums on securities during the quarter.

If we move down to the income tax expense line, it reflects a charge of $782 million related to the reevaluation of deferred tax assets in our UK business that we mentioned last quarter as a result of the July enactment of a 2% reduction in the UK corporate tax rate.

If we take the other items on this page and add both the positives and the negatives, the other adjustments totaled a loss of $800 million and I will touch on these different aspects as we get through the presentation.

If you flip to page 6 and look at the balance sheet, you can see that assets are down Q2 to Q3 while deposits grew moderately during the quarter. Other items I would point to in the quarter, we saw a $33 billion reduction in risk-weighted assets that contributed to the improvement in our Tier 1 Common ratio. We reduced long-term debt by approximately $28 billion and as we look at tangible book value per common share, that increased $0.57 to $13.22 at the end of the third quarter.

Asset quality continued to be very strong. Our allowance at the end of the quarter was approximately $35 billion, which is roughly 3.8% of total loans, 1.74 times annualized charge-offs and we saw a $1 billion reduction in our nonperforming loans and leases.

If we flip to page 7 and look at funding and liquidity, as we have talked about over the last couple quarters, we continue to proactively reduce both our short-term and our long-term debt. During the third quarter, we reduced short-term unsecured borrowings by approximately $15 billion to immaterial amounts at both the parent and the broker dealer as we repaid our commercial paper and eliminated the master notes program at the broker dealer.

In addition to the reductions in short-term debt, long-term debt also came down by approximately $28 billion as maturities continued to outpace issuances. These reductions of $43 billion were the primary drivers of the $39 billion decline in our excess liquidity sources to $363 billion. When you think about that $363 billion, unlike others realized, that does not include approximately $194 billion in additional liquidity that is available to our banking entities via pledging assets to the Home Loan banks and the Fed discount window.

As we think about time to required funding at the parent, it increased to 27 months during the quarter from 22 months at the end of the second quarter as we generated substantial parent company liquidity and debt maturities after 2012 are lower.

As I think everyone is aware, Moody's downgraded our credit ratings late in the third quarter based on their beliefs around potential government support. We obviously disagreed with those actions in that we believe that their views of unsupported credit ratings do not sufficiently reflect the significant progress we have made improving our capital and liquidity positions, shedding legacy and non-core assets and managing our risks down.

That being said, we had worked hard over the course of the last nine months to be prepared to the extent that we did receive a downgrade and feel very good about the way that we minimized the potential impact. Most importantly, since the downgrade, we have not seen any change in our global excess liquidity sources.

Moving to slide 8 and looking at net interest income, as we have spoken about before and as we think about getting ready for Basel III, we are obviously very focused on managing interest rate risk across the Company and minimizing OCI exposure in higher rate environments and managing the duration of our securities given the low level of rates.

On an FTE basis, net interest income was down approximately $754 million for the quarter. That decrease was driven primarily by two factors -- asset hedge ineffectiveness of $400 million and the acceleration of amortization of premiums on securities of $500 million due to the faster prepayment expectations on mortgage securities.

Importantly, if we back out these two adjustments, our net interest income was actually up as the positive contributions to net interest income from lower debt balances, as well as reductions in our rates paid on deposits, more than offset the reductions that we saw from consumer balances and yields.

As we look forward to the fourth quarter and we assume that rates stay within the same range that they are today, we would not expect to see any meaningful impact on net interest income due to asset hedge ineffectiveness or premium adjustments.

I am going to move through slide 9 quickly, which just reflects the divergence that we have seen within our Consumer Real Estate Services business from the balance of our businesses and get to the actual segments themselves on slide 10.

If you look at slide 10, you can see that the deposits business had net income of $276 million, which was down $148 million from the prior quarter, driven principally by lower net interest income, which was partially offset by increases in our non-interest or fee income category. Average deposits are up significantly from the third quarter of 2010 and down very modestly at 1% due to seasonal reasons from the second quarter of 2011.

As I mentioned before, the rates paid on our consumer deposits declined from 29 basis points during the second quarter of this year to 25 basis points in the third quarter. Importantly, this was the third consecutive quarter where we saw positive net new checking accounts during the quarter.

If we move to our card services business, the card services business generated net income of $1.3 billion during the quarter, which was down about $675 million from the second quarter, due primarily to higher provision expense and lower revenues, which were partially offset by declines in non-interest expense. The decline quarter-over-quarter in net revenues was driven by the portfolio sales that we accomplished in the second quarter and realized gains from those, as well as the NII impact from lower yields and loan balances.

As we look at provision, provision did increase by $735 million from the quarter. I think it is important to note that we actually saw charge-offs decline $403 million, or 17%, and that was more than offset by lower reserve releases of approximately $1.1 billion. Importantly, despite some of what we have seen out in the economy, we have continued to see very strong credit performance within our card services business and we show you here that the different delinquency categories continue to improve Q2 to Q3.

From a loan level balance perspective, average loans did decline by about $3.8 billion quarter-over-quarter, due principally to higher payments, charge-offs, portfolio divestitures and the runoff of the non-core portfolios that we have spoken about before. The actual core portfolio was up very modestly during the quarter. As you think about purchase volumes, if we adjust for our portfolio divestitures, card purchase volume was up 5% from the third quarter of last year.

The last point I would make on this page is that we have continued to see growth within the new card area with new card accounts growing 17%.

As we leave this page, I do want to note though that the sale -- as you look at this data, that the sale of the Canadian card business and with the intention to market the European card business, that the results of those two areas have been removed from this data and moved to all other and the prior-period results were restated to reflect that.

Just to remind you, with the sale of our Canadian credit card business, which adds about $8 billion in receivables, we would expect that sale to close during the fourth quarter of this year. The impact of that on Tier 1 Common and tangible common equity will be positive when the transaction closes.

If we move to the Global Wealth and Investment Management area, net income of $347 million during the quarter was down $159 million from the second quarter of '11 as lower revenue -- as we faced -- or had lower revenue and higher credit costs.

On the revenue side, the decline in revenues was due to lower interest rates and lower transactional revenue, but importantly was partially offset by record asset management fees driven by continued inflows into long-term assets under management. The decline in client balances during the quarter was driven almost entirely by lower market levels in the stock market. As we look at deposits, deposits were basically flat during the quarter despite the fact that we reduced the overall rates paid on our GWIM deposits by 7 basis points during the quarter.

Lastly, this was the ninth consecutive quarter that we saw increases in client-facing associates and we added a net 475 financial advisers during the quarter.

Moving to slide 13 in Commercial Banking, net income for the quarter was down $331 million to $1.05 billion, primarily due to lower loan loss reserves and some small revenue declines. The revenue declines were due to lower net interest income, as well as the absence of a gain on the settlement of a portfolio that we saw during the second quarter. Importantly, expenses were down quarter-over-quarter as the business continues to manage costs tightly and also, during the quarter, we saw a fairly significant increase in average deposits as they grew by $7.4 billion quarter-over-quarter.

Loans were generally flat during the quarter. We saw continued decreases in our commercial real estate, commercial and industrial loans were generally flat and we saw auto loans increase by about $1.2 billion.

The last point I would make within the Commercial sector is that we do continue to see very strong credit quality. Our reservable criticized exposure declined from $27 billion at the end of the second quarter to $22.8 billion at the end of the third and our nonperformers declined from $7.4 billion to $6.6 billion during the quarter.

If we flip to slide 14 in our Global Banking and Markets area, you can see that the results reflected a loss of $302 million driven by decreased sales and trading activity, lower investment banking fees and the UK tax rate change during the quarter that I referenced in my opening remarks, partially offset by our DVA gains.

As you look at the sales and trading revenues, you can see that they've declined to $2.8 billion, a $1 billion decline from the second quarter, primarily driven by our FICC business due to the adverse market conditions that we saw during the quarter. As I mentioned earlier, our results included DVA gains of $1.7 billion in the quarter as our credit spreads widened throughout the quarter versus gains of $121 million in the second quarter of the year.

As you look at the individual components within our FICC business, and if we back out DVA, what we saw was a relatively strong performance by our rates and currencies business that was down 14% quarter-over-quarter while we had small losses in our structured credit trading, certain other credit trading and our fair value option loan book. Also keep in mind, during the third quarter, as a result of winding down our proprietary trading business, revenue in that business decreased from $434 million in the first half of this year to zero in the third quarter.

If we move from FICC to the equities business and once again back out DVA, cash equities performed relatively well being down only 7% quarter-over-quarter while the primary declines in our equities business were due to equity derivatives.

If we move from the sales and trading to the banking side of the business, firmwide investment banking fees, excluding self-led deals, were $942 million, down 44% from what was a very strong second quarter due to both market uncertainty, as well as declining global feed pools. That being said, I think it is important to note that we did maintain our number two ranking globally in net investment banking fees.

If we move to loans and deposits, loan balances did increase nicely by $10.7 billion during the quarter driven primarily by growth in domestic and international corporate loans and international trade finance. Average deposit balances were up 4% to $121 billion as corporate clients continued to increase liquidity in an uncertain market environment.

We continued to chip away at our legacy positions. Those declined 3% to $16.6 billion led by reductions in auction rate securities, as well as CDOs. We also saw significant declines in our VAR during the quarter. Our daily average trading VAR, once again, three year at the 99% confidence interval, was down $65 million on a linked quarter basis.

If we move to slide 15, we want to highlight here how our mortgage model is changing. As we all know, Countrywide had a large-scale platform that allowed for high volumes of origination, but the mortgage market has declined and we are obviously being required to hold much more capital against our MSR asset. As many of you have seen, we recently announced our planned exit of the correspondent mortgage business, which we would expect to complete by the end of the year. This business is clearly not consistent with a focus on our core customers and will require us to carry the MSR asset on an unleveraged basis under proposed Basel III capital requirements. By exiting, we will not add to the MSR and importantly, over time, the current MSR asset associated with the correspondent business will run off. Also, during the quarter, we sold certain pieces of our MSR and we would expect to continue to do so going forward.

Within Legacy Asset Servicing, our operating costs remain high. That being said, we did see a 6% decline in the size of our portfolio within Legacy Asset from the second quarter to the third quarter and we are obviously working hard to continue to reduce that. Importantly, the focus within the mortgage business will be to be the secured lender of choice with our customers while continuing to manage down expenses to deliver on this goal.

If we flip to page 16 and look at the Consumer Real Estate Services business, I am going to ask you to focus on the right side of the results given the large number of adjustments that we saw during the second quarter of this year.

On an adjusted basis, you can see that, from the two quarters, that the net loss improved from $953 million in the second quarter to $601 million in the third quarter, primarily due to lower credit loss provision, as well as improved net interest income, partially offset by less favorable MSR hedging results. Home Loans did produce a modest profit in the quarter, while the Legacy Asset Servicing side recorded a loss from elevated expenses.

As we look at production income, first mortgage production was down 18%, due primarily to us shrinking and ultimately getting out of the correspondent and wholesale areas. Importantly, our core production income was flat relative to the second quarter as improved margins more than offset lower lock volumes.

You can see in the bottom left, as far as the selected charges, reps and warrants were $278 million for the quarter, litigation of $290 million and assessments and waivers of $350 million.

If we spend a minute on the MSR during the quarter, you can see the MSR asset decreased significantly from $12.4 billion to $7.9 billion, due primarily to declines in interest rates and you can see the cap rate on that asset went from 78 basis points at the end of the second quarter to 52 basis points at the end of the third quarter.

A couple pieces of sequential data on page 17 as we look at the Legacy Asset Servicing area, you can see that our 60 plus delinquent first mortgages declined 4% from roughly 1.211 million to 1.158 million. Our pretax loss ex notable items improved from a loss of $2.2 billion to $1.4 billion, due primarily to higher net interest income, as well as lower provisions.

The other point here is that we have had to add several thousand people to satisfy our obligations to do the mortgaging and with some of the regulation that we are seeing in that area.

On page 18, all other total revenue of $6.3 billion, you can see in the middle of the page, that revenue was primarily driven by the fair value adjustment on our structured liabilities, the gains on our sales of debt securities, as well as equity investment income.

One of the things that I do want to highlight during the quarter that we accomplished, you can see that our global principal investments area, which was primarily the legacy private equity portfolio, was reduced from $10.8 billion to $6.9 billion. And as you look at our total equity investment exposure, it came down by roughly 40% during the quarter from $44 billion to just under $27 billion, which clearly should look to minimize some of the volatility going forward. And once again, just want to highlight that the Canadian card and the UK card business have been moved to this segment during the quarter.

From an expense perspective, on slide 19, you can see noninterest expense decreased from $22.9 billion to $17.6 billion during the quarter and if you look to back out our mortgage-related items during the quarter, we still saw a nice decline in our expense base Q2 to Q3.

If we look at headcount, while headcount was up very modestly from Q2 to Q3, it does not pick up 2000 people that we have notified that will be leaving the Company and are still in that number. And obviously as we go into the fourth quarter and we look to execute on New BAC, we'd look to make continued progress on that front.

As we think about New BAC on slide 20, let me just spend a minute on this. Obviously, as we have gone through the low rate environment, unemployment where it is and an economy that is not growing at the pace that we would like, it does provide some headwinds from a revenue perspective. The one lever that we obviously have to offset that is the expense side and as Brian referenced in his opening remarks, we are in the process of completing our initial planning related to Phase 1 of New BAC and we will move into the second phase of New BAC later this month.

As we talked about in the presentation a few weeks ago, we completed six mergers over the last five years. That added approximately 150,000 new associates. This growth in our expense base obviously provides a lot of opportunities to streamline and reduce costs going forward. That is why New BAC makes sense and why it is attainable.

To summarize what we detailed for New BAC in September, we divided our expenses into two categories -- controllable costs and other direct costs. In Phase 1, we are focusing on our consumer businesses, along with small business banking, tech and ops and support areas. Based on our analysis, we have a goal to achieve $5 billion in cost savings, or about 18% of the expenses associated with these areas.

As I said, our Phase 2 evaluations began this month and we would expect to complete them in April of next year. As you look at Phase 2, be careful to extrapolate what we believe we will accomplish in Phase 1 to Phase 2 because the headcount in Phase 2 is about 50% of Phase 1 and some of the businesses in Phase 2 already have low efficiency ratios such as the commercial bank. We will obviously update you on Phase 2 during the first part of next year.

If we move down the page of the expenses that relate to sold or liquidating businesses, our goal is obviously to wind those down over time and finally, in other expenses, most of these are fixed; although we expect to bring down merger charges and expect to work towards goals of reducing litigation settlement-related costs and waivers and assessments over the next few years.

If we move from the businesses to credit and the trends that we have seen in credit, as we look at consumer credit trends on slide 21, we continue to be very pleased with the progress that we are making. If you look at consumer credit trends quarter-over-quarter, you can see continued declines in net charge-offs, 30 plus performing delinquencies, as well as our nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties.

You can also see that provision expense was roughly $3.5 billion for the quarter and included roughly $1 billion of loan loss reserves. Our allowance for the consumer businesses was over $30 billion at the end of the third quarter, 4.9% of total loans and 1.7 times our annualized charge-offs.

The last point on consumer credit that I would make is that this is the first time in several quarters where we have not had a valuation reserve for our purchase credit impaired portfolios.

Flipping quickly to slide 22, you can see that our 30 plus performing past-dues in residential mortgages continued to decline during the third quarter and our home equity was roughly flat.

On slide 23, we highlight our nonperformers in both residential mortgage and home equity improved modestly during the quarter.

On slide 24 as we get to our commercial credit trends, credit continued to perform very well within the commercial books. We had nice declines in our nonperformers, as well as our reservable criticized. Our total provision, which was a benefit of $59 million, included a reserve reduction of $670 million during the quarter and once again, on the commercial side, roughly $4.8 billion of an allowance, 1.6% of coverage of assets and just under 2 times annualized charge-offs.

Moving from credit to capital, you can see here we show our Tier 1 Common equity and Tier 1 capital ratios and the progression and progress that we have made. Importantly, we increased each of these measures by between 45 and 50 basis points during the quarter. And as you think about these numbers, realize that they are now higher than where we were at the end of the first quarter before we took the roughly $20 billion in charges that we took during the second quarter.

In addition to building our common equity, these ratios also benefited from reductions in risk-weighted assets of about 2.4%, or $33 billion during the quarter.

Flipping to slide 26, we show both tangible common equity and tangible book. They were both up nicely during the quarter in part due to the positive fair value marks, which I do want to remind people can reverse themselves when spreads tighten. Tangible common equity ratio did close the quarter at 6.25%, up 38 basis points and tangible book of $13.22 was up $0.57, or 5%. The tangible book value also reflects the impact of the drop in the market value of the CCB shares that we hold as of the end of the third quarter of this year.

The last comment I would make is the progress that we continue to make as we look to move and meet our objectives on Basel III. You will recall during last quarter, we gave guidance that we had a target of a reduction of risk-weighted assets on Basel III of [$200 billion to $250 billion]. As we looked and got through the quarter, we have now identified all of the assets that we need to move or mitigate to accomplish that. And during the quarter, we have worked through more than half of those reductions during the third quarter and as a result of that, we continue to be very comfortable with our fully phased-in guidance of 6.75% to 7% at the end of 2012. And with that, we would like to go ahead and open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Glenn Schorr, Nomura.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Hi, thanks very much. Curious, inside your commentary, in the NIM compression, how much is the securities book at the investment bank impacting that on a quarterly basis?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It's really not much at all. If you look at what is in the investment bank, it is flattish, so it was really the two items that I highlighted, Glenn.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, cool. And then maybe just a comment. It has been kind of quiet on both the foreclosure settlement front and the private label putback cases. I think we are due any day now to hear about the status on the judgment on the MBIA case. I wonder if you can update -- there are three different pieces there and I think they are weighing very heavily on investors' minds. So I wonder if you could give us any update there.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. I think if we start with the MBIA case, you obviously have read what we have read that there were presentations made, I guess it has been several weeks now, and we continue to wait for and get feedback on that. I think one of the important things that we need to mention as we think about MBIA, this is obviously the case that they are bringing and talking to us about reps and warrants. And as you look within our numbers, you can see that they are a significant counterparty that we believe at this point owe us a fair bit of money and we have marked -- that is marked pretty heavily within our books.

As you think about the Attorney General DOJ settlement, which you have seen, obviously there continues to be a lot of noise and a lot of discussions on that. But there is really not much new to report from our perspective on that.

And then as you think about the mortgage putbacks, I guess quiet is a relative term, but I think obviously the big piece and what everyone is still waiting to hear back is to some of the different presentations and objections that have been made on the Gibbs & Bruns case and I would say at this point, you know as much as we do on that front as well.

GLENN SCHORR: On the putbacks themselves, if you look at the levels, they have kind of leveled off at this high pace, so it is good that they are not picking up. Has the FHA got more involved? Are they putting back loans and are they increasing the dialogue? Because it seems that way in certain spots.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think if you look at our numbers in the claims, you are really not seeing anything from FHA materially reflected in those claims. And you continue to -- obviously you see some of the same noise about some of the discussion on FHA putbacks, but it is not something that has been material that is in the numbers we have shown.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, last one, quickie. In the home equity book, can you give us a bigger than a bread box type number on how much of the book is interest only or due to start amortizing principal soon?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Why don't we get back to you with that exact number? I think clearly a chunk of it starts in the 2013/2014 timeframe, but why don't we get back to you with (multiple speakers).

GLENN SCHORR: No problem. I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. A couple of questions. First, just to clarify the net interest income and NIM outlook, I think if I heard you correctly, if rates stay where they are right now, you would expect the NIM or net interest income dollars to be relatively stable in 4Q?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We would clearly -- with the assumptions that you just gave, we would expect the net interest income to migrate back towards the second-quarter level, that is correct.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. So it is actually up versus the reported 3Q level because you don't have the one-time hits from hedging or amortization?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct and we, obviously, as I talked about, and the funding and liquidity can continue to reduce the debt footprint that we have, which provides us a benefit as well.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, that makes sense. And then separately, as we think about the cost-saving program, the Phase 1 that will generate about $5 billion of savings, you did mention some severance and tech charges in the release and I was just wondering if you had an estimate of what those might be and the timing of that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think -- let me put it in two different buckets. The first is from a technology perspective. We are continuing to work through that, but clearly the goal in what we are trying to do is to basically fund the tech and ops spending that we have within the context of the tech and ops run rate that you see in the numbers today. So the goal, as we think about those numbers, will be to fund it within the context of the spending that you are seeing within the numbers here today.

As it relates to severance and the disclosure we put out there, within the numbers that we reported this quarter, there was roughly $145 million of severance that we saw for activities as it related to employees that were more normal course. And I think as you look forward, we are obviously continuing to work through the final implementations or the final implementation schedule. But from a severance perspective, I don't think you're going to see any big lump; it's going to be more you're going to see it as we work through and make certain decisions with respect to certain actions.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Matt, just to back up, the ideas in Phase 1, I think 25%, 30% of them have technology aspects to them in order (inaudible) so there is a significant amount of nontechnology effort there and we will prioritize the nontechnology to move them forward because the technology not only costs money and we will do it within the run rate we have now, but secondly also takes time. So we are working on the implementation schedule, but the numbers that we have quoted will be the impacts that we will achieve in the savings net of the current run rate in technology that we have today.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just lastly, it might be too early for you to comment on it, but there was an article in the Wall Street Journal today talking about a potential agreement in which banks would reduce the mortgage rate for borrowers that are underwater, but still current. I am just wondering if you had thoughts on that from a big picture point of view and any numbers on how it might impact you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have no comment on it at this time.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, hi. Just one clarification on the NII. Bruce, is your outlook that that could be back to the second-quarter level because you are changing your strategy around the hedging of the NII and the OCI? Are you lightening up on what you were doing in the hedging?

BRUCE THOMPSON: No, it is not that we are changing the way that we are hedging at all. It is really, as you think about the two numbers, it is the absence of the ineffectiveness, as well as the prepays that we wouldn't expect to repeat itself during the fourth quarter.

I think importantly if you think about where we are now and you just use the 10-year treasury as a reference point, at the end of September, the 10-year was at 1.90 and it has been bouncing around between 2.10 and 2.25 over the course of the last week. So think about those as the benchmarks as we make these comments.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And are you talking about the net interest income and the margin percent or were you referencing one or the other when you talked about going back to the second-quarter level?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Dollars.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then on trading, given that trading and FICC particularly was so bad this quarter, can you comment on how you are doing so far in the fourth quarter on trading? Have you seen things improve?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I mean I think, as you would expect, if you think about months that we had during the third quarter, July, while clearly not at what we had seen during the early part of the year, July was a reasonably good month in the quarter. Obviously, the volatility in the credit markets were particularly challenging in August and September. And what I would say is, as we look at October to date, I would say October has been a fair bit better than what we would have seen in the August and September months.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then on the AG settlement, the discussions about robo-signing, I feel like, last quarter, you mentioned that you are trying to build reserves for that. Obviously, no one knows what is going to come of it, but in terms of any financial penalty that comes, have you tried to contemplate some reserve building for that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think as we said when we took our charges in the second quarter, we did put up some reserves for that. There has really been nothing firm that has come out during the third quarter relative to the second. So those reserves for that item on the books at the third quarter are the same as they were at the end of the second.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And that shows up in your litigation reserves and we don't know the balance of those. Is that correct?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and the final thing was on the assessments and waivers. Those went down this quarter. Those have to do with foreclosure delays. What is the driver of that and why did they get better this quarter and what do you see for the next couple quarters on that line?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think that that number is obviously fluid. If you go back, we took $230 million during the fourth quarter given that we had a sense that they were coming. And if we just go back and look, we had $550 million, down to $485 million. So we are seeing it trending down and obviously, as we get through the foreclosure pipeline quicker, we would expect that to continue to decline.

So looking forward, we clearly expect the fourth quarter to be better than the third quarter as we look forward. And it is just that you can never predict exactly where you're going to be given we don't have perfect visibility to when foreclosures happen. But clearly, we would expect the fourth quarter to be better than the third.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then the final thing from me was just on the GSE putback behavior. You mentioned that the behavior continues to change. I assume this is Fannie Mae since you are kind of done at least on the Countrywide side with Freddie. What has been changing about the behavior and why is it tough to predict from here?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I mean I would just make a couple of comments. I think that what we have seen is that they have thrown over the wall some vintages, amounts and vintages that are older than what we have seen. Unlike many others, we have a certain contract with Fannie that speaks to a normal course of doing business and we will obviously process and push through those that we think that we are due and fight those that we don't think are due based on the contract we have with them.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Jefferson Harralson, KBW.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Thanks, Brian. I was hoping just to ask a broad question of pre-pre, pretax preprovision expectation. Originally, I think we were talking about $40 billion to $45 billion a year would be in a possible range. A lot of things have changed since then; we have had a lot of divestitures. I guess how do you think about pre-pre, the level this quarter versus where you can get to and how do you get there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think keeping it in broad strokes that when we talked about that, we were talking about an environment that we all thought would happen over the next couple of years where you would get back to a normalized, more normal Fed funds rate of 1.5%, 2% at least. You would see the interest rate structure moves and that obviously still has a heavy impact on us and the Fed has made it clear they are going to keep it there for a couple of years.

The second element is, in this quarter, we are down because, as someone pointed out earlier, the trading business was down and that at the margin cost us a lot of PPNR.

When you think about how we move forward, the key then now is going to be, as revenues are going to be more subdued, is to get more cost out and we have outlined what we are doing in the New BAC and other matters to get there and I think you will see that play out as we go quarter-by-quarter here.

The other thing that you pointed out is the PPNR contribution in the card business was obviously high in that math and we are selling parts of that. Then that profit out of that is lower, but it will have an impact on the PPNR. So as we sort of finally go through this quarter and get to look at it, we will share with you an update on that probably in the first quarter of next year, along with fourth-quarter results.

But think of the way we get there broadly is the more normalized interest rate environments worth several billion dollars a year, cost take-out, just Legacy Asset Services and being almost $2 billion a quarter now in operating costs, not the charges for assessments, just pure operating costs and that coming out and then the rest of the cost structure and how that gets us there offsetting -- we got Durbin still to come and a few other things and then some of the divestitures.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys. So yesterday, a competitor highlighted that they were seeing some signs of troubles in TDRs. So I was hoping you could maybe give some color on what you guys are seeing in these credits and what's your view of [MODs].

BRUCE THOMPSON: TDRs on the consumer side or on the commercial side?

BRENNAN HAWKEN: In mortgage, consumer.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I did not see the specific reference, but we have not seen any issue with respect to TDRs quite frankly either on the commercial or the consumer side.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. And then maybe could we get a little more color on the FICC results ex-DVA? Clearly, it was weak and you highlighted some weakness in structured and credit, but maybe we could dig in a little bit more. Was there a big headwind from inventory marks and quarter-over-quarter, what sort of percentage change in the flow business did you guys see?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Let's start back from the broad perspective. I will let Bruce take you through some numbers. But if you think about the last time we had sort of -- last year's second quarter, we had sort of an outsized move in terms of FICC versus the competition. And largely remember that we have a very strong business in the origination side, the leverage finance side, the capital market side, which then helps feed our business and that business freezes up when the market freezes up. So we had it freeze up in the second quarter of 2010 when Europe was going up and Greece was growing a little bit sideways then and it happened again in August and September.

That being said, the team did a good job of managing the risk, kept the risk down and Bruce will take you through some of the numbers, but we did have some marks and moving some positions and things like that. But overall, they ended up making some money, but overall, the job was to stay out of the way of the risk and they did a good job at managing that. So Bruce can take you through the details, but remember because our heavy issuer side business is in the leveraged finance and other areas, this is a business when it slows down, we lose a fair amount of revenue not only from the origination side and capital markets, but also has a place through the trading platform. Bruce?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, I think that the first thing I would say is I referenced that the rates and currency business on a relative basis performed better than the others. And if you look through the individual categories within the fixed income business, whether it be structured credit trading, whether it be our credit trading business, whether it be our mortgage business and then the other thing that we have that is a little bit different than our competitors is that we have our fair value option loan book that also shows up in the fixed income area. You would have seen all those four areas get beat up a little bit, but as it relates to any legacy positions or any significant losses that were incurred, we wouldn't have seen that.

The other thing that is out there that I know that there has been some things on is just about some of the underwriting in the pipelines of assets that people have. Our team actually did a very good job in that they hedged on the front end some of the commitments to distribute and any changes in that were very, very modest in the quarter.

So I think kind of going back to what Brian said, we tend to be very much driven by the new issue business; it was slow. So within those credit trading areas, they were slightly negative, but nothing really material in any one business that merits calling out.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, all right, that is really helpful. And then just a last quick one, any change to the home price sensitivity that you guys laid out last quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I would say the only thing that's -- nothing material from a home price sensitivity that would change. The only thing that I would say is that, if you look out with where consensus is, we are now factoring into our models and what we have put through the P&L was home prices looking to be down about 2.6% from where we are now till the end of 2012, which is slightly more negative than what we had when we reported last quarter and that is reflected in the numbers that we have shown.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. I know this isn't part of the first phase of the New BAC, but, obviously, another quarter has gone by where your trading, your core trading levels are significantly below the $4 billion or $4.5 billion that you kind of aspire to. How do you think about the cost structure of that business at this stage and --?

BRUCE THOMPSON: So you are correct and part of that is that -- so Tom has begun reducing headcount and we will do that in advance of doing the work on Phase 2, so think about two aspects to it. One is sort of, for lack of a better term, a capacity reduction that he has gone through now and during the quarter, as we have already talked about, we reduced headcount in some of the trading and investment banking and areas generally around the world and in the US. He will continue to make those moves as we move towards the Phase 2.

The Phase 2 is to take the work and change it. So the first reduction will occur before that and Tom has made some of those changes and will continue to make them. But we agree with you. If the market is going to be and the economy is going to be such that the revenues are going to be below, we are going to continue to take down the cost structure.

Now one of the easy things in this business versus other businesses, so much of it is variable comp, which comes down easier. But ultimately you have to reduce the heads and the infrastructure and Tom is going through that right now.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay. So kind of on a separate topic related to kind of on the consumer side, we have kind of discussed your actions in terms of the overdraft fees and the point-of-sale and now you have kind of adjusted pricing. Can you talk about what your expectations are for kind of the size of the consumer bank post all of that? I mean have you kind of put that into thought as to will it shrink and by how much and how does that work?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think if you think about the consumer businesses generally, the high net worth businesses we continue to grow, continue to grow advisers, continue to grow headcount. When we come into the consumer business, if you think about the two broad customer groups that we have talked about, our retail customer group and our preferred customer group, we continue to add resources there. Preferred includes small business, so we have added financial service advisers to help capture the investment side opportunity. We have added more personal bankers. We have added more small-business bankers and all that has generated significant revenue growth.

On the retail business, it is more about optimizing the cost structure and we have been -- there we have been taking action on the branches as we have shown you. I think this quarter, it was another 25 or 30 branch reductions; last quarter, it was 60. We continue to reduce that. So it is not small in terms of deposits and small in terms of checking accounts; that keeps growing. But it is smaller in terms of infrastructure and cost structure where 240 odd basis points of operating cost per deposit, which we think leads the industry and we will continue to drive that down.

So if you think about it from a core sort of checking and consumer business, optimizing the cost structure underneath these customers we have and then growing in the areas we can and with the investments and penetration of, then on the product side the cards and the mortgages.

Mortgages on a direct retail basis is where we are going. Those numbers are in the data. You can see how [big] that will be. And then card, absent the UK, etc., is kind of at the stability level from the core US book. Now we still have some runoff portfolios in there that were from before that we are running down, but from a core US book, we are relatively stable. So it will sort of be that size and that will give -- so that is sort of the two product sides of it.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: I guess, Brian, what I was just trying to get at is the increase of the fees. Do you have a sense as to how much or how many of those retail customers you are kind of willing to let go?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think that -- we think that, as you look at the customer base, when we look at the profile of customers who have their entire banking relationship with us and those who don't, a lot of people can qualify -- will qualify and do qualify not to pay the fees that we have been talking about because they have their whole relationship with us or a large part of that relationship.

So as you look at our sales process now, we are selling about 80% of primary checking, what we call first checking, primary checking relationships, the core relationship. If a person deposits their paycheck, if a person carries their sort of nest egg, what they are saving on a run rate, all that will help them qualify. So we are comfortable that people have the relationship, being a card, a mortgage and what they do to get out of the fee. The issue is when people split their relationship and use our convenience and our access and our 18,000 ATMs and our no foreign ATM fees and our online banking product and all that and yet have their relationship elsewhere, that is tough for us to afford to provide and we need to provide it to all our customers to be competitive. And so the fees are to get people to bring more of their relationships, so we are comfortable that we will end up in a good dynamic there.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. One follow-up on the NII and then a question on the mortgage. On the NII, you indicated that if rates stayed where they are today, you would be back at 2Q levels of NII. That takes into consideration the prepaids that are going to be coming, hitting you in fourth quarter. Obviously, there was a reasonable amount of folks that haven't yet been able to close on their refi at this stage.

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes, it's a good question. I probably should have been a little bit more clear. Keep in mind that amortization amount that we took in the third quarter was not reflective of prepays that we actually saw in the securities. It was us adjusting our assumptions in the models to reflect the prepays that we think that we will see based on the interest rate environment that we saw at the end of the quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then assets -- you are asset-sensitive. Can you tell us how your asset sensitivity changed Q-on-Q or where you are now versus where you were at quarter-end?

BRUCE THOMPSON: With respect to where we went from -- we do continue to be asset- sensitive; there is no question. I would not say that there was any material change from our level of asset sensitivity from the second quarter to third quarter though.

BETSY GRASECK: And that includes the planned long-term debt roll-off?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It sure does.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And can you give us a sense of how much long-term debt you are planning on rolling off over the course of the next three or four quarters?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. If you look at where we are and focus on the parent company, the parent company has got -- I believe it is roughly $12 billion that rolls off over the next 90 days. And then as you go out over the course of the year realize that we have got roughly $30 billion that rolls off that is the big number during the second quarter of next year when TLGP runs off. So those are the significant numbers there. And then you would expect over time, given the liquidity that we have at the bank, that we will continue to run off the funding that we have at the bank as opposed to rolling it over given the liquidity that we have at the Company.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, okay, and that has all been prepaid so to speak with cash balances?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is exactly correct.

BETSY GRASECK: And then lastly on mortgage, could you just give us a sense as to how the impact of shutting down the correspondent channel is going to flow through the P&L and the timeframe?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Well, I think if you look at the P&L this quarter, and look at our comments that we have made with respect to volumes, we've started to see that during the third quarter and clearly, the majority of it will be gone off or run off at the end of the fourth. You should not expect to see any material change though in the overall P&L from correspondent realizing that we are in the process of working through and taking out the costs associated with that and obviously at points in time be a quarter lag in that.

The most important thing that you are going to see with respect to our financials though in the correspondent is that the correspondent business, when you originate it alone, it came with an MSR associated with it that obviously doesn't count from a Basel III perspective. So what you will see is a slowdown in the new bookings of MSRs that come on the balance sheet as a result of exiting this segment.

BETSY GRASECK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Matthew Burnell, Wells Fargo.

MATTHEW BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. Thanks for taking my call. Just a couple of questions. First on page 40 of the supplement, it looks like you had additions or higher levels of new non-accrual loans in the third quarter, both in the consumer portfolio, but also in the commercial portfolio. I am just curious if you can give us a little color as to what you're seeing in those portfolios and how you drove down the NPA levels in both those portfolios on a quarter-end-by-quarter-end basis?

BRUCE THOMPSON: So I guess that if you think -- and if we look at the consumer NPAs, I'm not sure of exactly what you are quoting. Obviously, at the end of the second quarter, our non-PAs on the consumer side were 21.3% and they are down to 21% at the end of the third quarter and we have seen a similar amount in commercial.

I think as you look at the -- on the consumer side, obviously the big thing that we are trying to do and that we have seen start up is to work through the foreclosure pipeline and to get the foreclosure pipeline clear. And I would say, on the commercial side, the only thing that we really saw of note on the commercial side is that we did sell roughly $800 million during the quarter of a combination of criticized and nonperforming commercial real estate loans for the quarter. So that would have affected the number, but those are really the only two things that I would point to.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Okay, and then just a clarification in terms of the TLGP debt that you said you had running off through the second quarter of next year, that $30 billion, does that include the $12 billion that you mentioned rolling off over the 90 days or is that completely separate from that?

BRUCE THOMPSON: It is separate. We have got roughly $12 billion between now and the end of the year and the TLGP number, that I think the total maturities in the second quarter of next year are roughly $30 billion. That is separate and distinct from the $12 billion.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Okay. And then one final comment. There was a news report today I guess that came out on Bloomberg News talking about potentially moving some of the -- because of your downgrade that you mentioned in your prepared remarks -- potentially moving some of the derivatives activity into the bank and out of some of the non-bank subsidiaries. Is there any additional color you can provide on that given that it looks like from the regulatory data most of the derivatives are already held, at least on a notional basis, already held in the bank?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We were a little bit surprised at the article. I don't think that what is reflected in the article is anything different from the normal course of dealings that we have had with our counterparties since Merrill Lynch and BofA came together and we obviously continue to work with them on transactions within all of our legal entities.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning, guys. Two questions. You have had two quarters in a row now of significant special items and there is a fair amount of confusion on the street I think about what the core trends are. I know that we are looking at fourth quarter and fourth quarter as always special, but can you tell us any large items that may be on the horizon right now coming in fourth quarter and when we get to quarters that sort of look more like normal and sustainable?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think if you -- I mean if you look at the adjustments, and I think the things that are out there, the first thing I would say that we have seen is that you have seen, and you saw it in this quarter, a lot of pluses and minuses as it relates to asset disposition strategies and the like. And obviously over the course of the last year and a half as we have been working through those, it can lead to the numbers bouncing around. But Nancy, I would ask you to go back to page 18 and one of the reasons that we have been as focused as we have on the core in shedding assets and you look at what we did with the private equity portfolio is to start eliminating the chances that these types of pluses and minuses come through. So from that perspective, we are just working with a lot smaller base than we have been.

The second thing that I would say that we have talked here to are some of the things that affected net interest income. We, obviously, have spoken to where we are from a rate perspective and to the extent that we are within a reasonable band of rates, we wouldn't expect those things to come through. The UK rate change, the way that it is set up will show up one quarter a year and it is 1% so you know what that is.

And the last piece that is really where we are most focused that has led to the majority of the noise is mortgage and it was the reason that we split the business up between Legacy Asset Services, as well as the front end. We are working very hard to continue to work through the delinquent portfolio that we have and obviously, we have put a lot of reserves behind us.

That being said, I think given the questions that everyone has asked today, there do continue to be some open items on mortgage. But we feel like we have done everything we can at this point.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Brian, a question for you. I mean you have said over the past several quarters that before you went back to the regulators and tried to gain greater autonomy over capital management that you had to, quote, do the work. And I am wondering if you can just reflect on that right now and whether a majority of the work has been done and whether you are ready to make that request.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we continue to follow the capital plan and we are doing the work and I think we will have to make sure that we continue to make the progress over the next several quarters, including with the economy not being what anybody would've thought of three or four quarters ago. So we are on progress, we are making progress on our capital plan and we will continue to do that and as soon as we know something, we will tell you.

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Todd Hagerman, Sterne Agee.

TODD HAGERMAN, ANALYST, STERNE, AGEE & LEACH: Good afternoon, everybody. Just a couple of quick questions. First, just in terms of looking at the European exposure, two questions. One, I know France is not a big exposure for the Company, but could you just remind us kind of what your relative position there is with France, any other collateral that you have with respect to the GIPSIs that you outline in the supplement and whether or not there was any incremental marks taken in the course of the quarter as it relates to Europe?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Let me start, if I could, with what we have seen in the GIIPS because a couple pieces of information and you can see this through some of our different disclosures, but let me just walk through it. As you think about where we are, our reported exposure for the quarter was roughly $14.6 billion that we have and that was down roughly $1.5 quarter-over-quarter.

As you think about that number, realize that that number has been offset or reduced by roughly $2 billion through different CDS and short positions that we have. But when you start at that $14.6 billion, realize that there are certain things that we have hedged that don't show up there. The first is, and you can see on our supplement, we have got $1.7 billion of CVA hedges largely against our Italian exposure. So as we think about sovereign exposure in Europe, we feel very good.

In addition to that, we are not able to count our [FCO] hedges that we have on our fair value option book with the way we report for FFIEC. That reduces the exposure by about $2.2 billion. If you take those two adjustments and think about where we are, that gets that $14.6 billion number down by several billion dollars. And I think as we have said before, we got after this at the beginning of 2010, so there is nothing material from a P&L perspective that you would have seen going through the income statement.

If we move to France, what I would say there, that we obviously do a lot -- not a lot in France, but we have a presence in France. I would say if you look at our exposure, we obviously have exposure to the clearinghouse there, which is pretty good exposure. The corporate lending that we do there, consistent with the strategy, is to multinationals that are not dependent within France.

And then I would say if you move to the counterparties and look at what we do with the different financial institutions there, it is a couple billion dollars that we have out to the banks in the aggregate and we manage that exposure very tightly and manage it in a way where we don't have any real tall trees to any one institution.

So I would say as we look across not only the GIIPS, but also France and other countries that pop up, feel very good about where we are positioned and I think that as it relates to our book, we are more focused on is there a second derivative effect that comes out of what is going on in Europe as opposed to any concern with any of the exposures that we have.

TODD HAGERMAN: Okay. And so just to follow up on that, you say nothing material in terms of the P&L. I am assuming less than $500 million or so in the quarter?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Much, much, much less than $500 million.

TODD HAGERMAN: Much, much less. Okay. And then in terms of France, did you mention any sovereign-related debt?

BRUCE THOMPSON: We do have some sovereign-related debt there. I think we, obviously, watch it very carefully and consistent with the way that we hedge. In what we have done in Italy, if you see any real change in the perception of the country, we would adjust that. But I think despite some of the rumblings from the agencies, it still is a AAA-rated country.

TODD HAGERMAN: Okay. And then if I could just switch gears quickly, in terms of FICC, and I know the preliminary draft of Volcker has just come out and it is a lot to digest, to say the least, but could you give us -- if I look at your trading inventory that you have disclosed, it came down a little bit this quarter, but I guess one of the concerns from investors has been that has arisen since the draft proposal is really how it potentially may affect FICC for the commercial banks in particular. Any thoughts, preliminary thoughts just in terms of your business again being levered towards FICC and how that may change in the coming quarters, particularly as we think about the flow sale volume and inventory levels there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Let me make a couple of comments as you think about our FICC business. The first is that since Merrill and BofA came together, and you think about our FICC business, that the market shares that we have and the underwriting and distribution of securities, that we have been consistently between number one and number two. So the amount -- given that position, what we do from the investor -- or from the issuer side and as a result the need to make market from the investor side, I think relative to others, we feel pretty good about where we are.

Obviously, those regulations are still evolving. As I think others have said, the amount of compliance and regulatory costs that go along with that, while the costs may not be high, there is obviously a lot of work that will need to be done associated with those to ensure compliance and we will obviously work through those. But I think the best that we can given the nature of our business at this point at least would not see it changing materially.

TODD HAGERMAN: Okay, so again Europe aside and what happened this quarter, at least in the near term, we shouldn't expect any material change in terms of the business?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: That's correct.

TODD HAGERMAN: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: I show we have no further questions at this time.

KEVIN STITT: Thank you, everyone. We look forward to talking to you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may disconnect at this time. Thank you and have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | fra : France | cana : Canada | lorrai : Lorraine | proven : Provence-Alpes-Côe d'Azur | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111101e7ai001jn
  


 HD
 Q2  2011  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,927 words
   PD
19 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to today's program. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session. Please note this call is being recorded and I will be standing by you should you need any assistance.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Kevin Stitt. Please go ahead, sir.

KEVIN STITT, DIRECTOR, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.

These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.

With that let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Kevin. Before I turn it over to Bruce I just wanted to make a few comments about the quarter.

As we discussed on the call on June 29 when we announced the settlement of private-label securities litigation, we have been working hard to put large pieces of uncertain risk behind us as a company and where we can do that on a basis reasonable to you as the shareholders. This quarter, following actions we took in last year's fourth quarter on the GSEs, in the first quarter on the mono lines, we have put another significant part of the rep and warranty exposure behind us in other mortgage-related matters.

In all, as you can see from the materials, we took almost $20 billion in charges relating to the mortgage business. That has translated into a $0.90 per share loss, in the range we gave you a few weeks ago.

Adjusting for the mortgage charges, our earnings were $0.33 per share, at the high end of the range we gave you in June. Bruce is going to give you more details on those adjustments later on.

Switching to the important question of capital, the work we have done to improve our balance sheet over the last several quarters came through this quarter as even with a loss we reported capital ratios which are stronger than this quarter in 2010. Our Tier 1 common ratio, which we said at the end of June would come in around 8%, actually came in at 8.23%, higher than we expected. A drop of 20 basis points since the first quarter 2011, but improvement since last year.

Our tangible common equity ratio, which we estimated at the end of June to be about 5.7%, came in at 5.87%. Again an improvement of what we said. We achieved the ratios through the continued balance sheet optimization and repair that we have been going through in the Company over the last several quarters.

In all during the second quarter 2011 our RWA came down over $30 billion. Bruce is going to take you through the actions we completed during the second quarter of 2011 and, more importantly, the actions that are still ahead of us in the quarters ahead -- all of which give us comfort and demonstrate that we don't need to raise capital as we continue on our plans to comply with Basel III.

As we look at the business lines and you can see how they perform, this quarter shows the power of the rest of our franchise, which has been covered up by losses from mortgage. As you can see on slide five, you can see the results. Each business line other than mortgage had solid earnings and returns earning in all over $5.7 billion after-tax.

The franchise and customer model continued to shine through. In our deposits business we grew deposits. We also grew accounts at two times the rate we grew them last quarter on net new checking accounts. We paid less for our deposits this quarter in our deposits franchise, and we lowered our costs to operate the franchise in this quarter.

The transformation of this business unit continues to go well and we are growing our fees again, offsetting the overdraft regulations that came through last year.

In our card business, we had strong performance aided by the credit provision release, but we also increased our units in the United States this quarter to over 730,000 new cards. The Durbin will effect this business in subsequent quarters and Bruce will lay that out later.

In our Global Wealth & Investment Management business we had another solid quarter. We grew long-term assets, grew our advisory team, and continue to see strong performance across the franchise.

As we move into the corporate and commercial side of our house, we had strong earnings in our Global Commercial Bank as you can see. That is our middle-market business led by David Darnell. And we had a good quarter in our Global Corporate Investment Banking business, which is part of the GBAM unit led by Tom Montag. That serves our larger corporate customers around the world.

The deposit and Treasury management revenues in these businesses were solid. The loan growth outside the US was strong and our investment banking fees of $1.6 billion-plus were one of the best quarters we have had in this business since we came together several quarters ago. Our efforts here also show that our international business investments are starting to bear fruit as the revenues outside the United States grew faster than the revenues inside the United States.

As we switch to our sales and trading portion of the GBAM, Global Banking & Markets, business we had a solid quarter, down from the first quarter of 2011 but up from the second quarter of last year. We made money on 97% of the trading days, even in a choppy market.

Let me switch to two other areas of focus -- our credit and expenses. On credit, we continue to see improvements in all portfolios and we still have upside as charge-offs will continue to fall. Delinquencies in all portfolios continue to come down, despite the recent backup in some economic and unemployment statistics.

On expenses we continue to manage to flat core expense level that Bruce will show you in a few minutes, if you eliminate the large mortgage one-time charges in the expense base.

We have seen our headcount go down slightly this quarter. We continue to invest where we need and have to in this franchise. Examples are the LAS buildout, the legacy asset services buildout, where we have had to invest to collect the delinquent mortgage loans.

But more importantly, on a revenue side, investing in more wealth managers in our Global Wealth & Investment Management Business, more FSAs or brokers in a branch and small-business lenders in our deposits business, our international franchise, and importantly technology invested throughout the franchise.

At the same time, we continue to take out expenses in other areas to help fund these investments. For example, this quarter our branch count is down 63 from last quarter.

Our new BAC project, which is a companywide initiative on expenses, will be done this quarter, in the third quarter 2011, for about one half of the Company. And we will give you the results of that in October and show you what we plan to do with the second half of the Company during the latter part of this year. Suffice to say that the work so far has gone well and shows a great opportunity to make our company better and more efficient in the future.

With that I want to turn it over to Bruce to take you through the quarter.

BRUCE THOMPSON, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Great. Thanks, Brian, and good morning; if I could ask you to start with slide six.

As Brian referenced, during the quarter, on a reported basis, we had a net loss of $8.8 billion or $0.90 a share. And if we adjust that for mortgage-related and other items, we reported net income of $3.7 billion or $0.33 a share.

We have scheduled down at the bottom of the page the one-time items coming through the P&L. The $15.5 billion of mortgage-related revenue charges is comprised of $14 billion of reps and warrants and $1.5 billion of negative valuation effect on our MSR. On the mortgage-related expense items of $2.6 billion, $1.9 billion of that litigation expense and $700 million of assessments and waivers. Then we have scheduled out back on slide 30, the asset sale gains and other amounts that are comprised of a variety of items.

Before I leave this page I would like to touch briefly on taxes. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 39.4%, excluding our goodwill impairment. As you look out and think of the balance of the year, think about the effective tax rate in the 30% area excluding any unusual adjustments.

The other thing I would call your attention to here is during the third quarter we will have an $800 million hit to our UK deferred tax asset, given the reduction in UK taxes that we would expect to be approved during the third quarter.

Turning to page seven and looking at the balance sheet, assets during the quarter were down slightly while we continued to see growth in the deposits. I would ask you to spend a minute and focus on risk-weighted assets. Risk-weighted assets were down $40.7 billion for the quarter or 2.8%, which is consistent with our strategy of driving down risk-weighted assets as we look out to the new Basel capital rules.

To give you a sense of the magnitude of this reduction, it led to a 23 basis point benefit to Tier 1 common during the quarter. As Brian alluded to, Tier 1 common at the end of the quarter was solid at 8.23% and tangible book value ended the quarter at 12.65%(Sic-see press release). From an asset quality and a reserve perspective, ending loan-loss reserves after the release were $37.3 billion or 4% of loans and leases and over 1.6 times our annualized charge-offs that we saw for the quarter.

On slide eight, we walk through our net interest income for the quarter. On an FTE basis, net interest income was down roughly $900 million for the quarter. Net interest margin was at 2.5%, which is consistent with our previous guidance where we expected net interest income margin to trough in the 2.5% area.

As you think about the decline in net interest income, it was due to several factors. The first on the consumer side, lower balances and lower yields; the second, the drop in long-term interest rates had a negative impact on our hedge results; and third, we had lower trading-related revenues.

As you think about our strategy with net interest income and managing OCI risk, we continue to be very focused on keeping the duration in our discretionary portfolio short as our asset liability management strategy is focused on managing interest-rate risk across the Company and minimizing higher -- minimizing OCI exposure to the extent we were to have a higher interest-rate environment as we move towards Basel.

If we flip to slide nine and look at the deposits business, net income in the deposits business was $430 million during the quarter, up $75 million or roughly 21% from the first quarter of 2011. Average deposits were up 2% for the quarter and net new accounts were positive for the second consecutive quarter.

Brian referenced the rates paid on deposits and the cost per dollar of deposits. Rates paid on deposits came down 3 basis points from 32 basis points to 29 basis points, and cost per deposit, which we define as non-interest expense over average deposits, came down from 2.6% in the first quarter to 2.44% during the current quarter.

On slide 10, we walk through our Global Card business where net income was $2 billion, a $300 million improvement or 17% over the first quarter, as credit improvements more than offset lower net interest income from lower average loans and yields. As we think about volumes, total purchase volume for debit and credit transactions was up seasonally 9% from the first quarter and 6% when we compare it back to the second quarter of 2010. Credit continued to improve significantly as delinquencies improved and US charge-offs declined for the seventh consecutive quarter.

From an average loan and lease perspective, the $5.6 billion decline in average loans from the first quarter was due to higher payments, charge-offs, and continued run-off in our non-core credit portfolio. In addition to that reduction, we exited approximately $2 billion in receivables at the end of the quarter with virtually no income statement effect.

Been a lot of questions about Durbin out there. If we look at our second-quarter results and we look out to the fourth quarter, which will be the quarter in which Durbin is implemented, we would expect a negative $475 million revenue impact from Durbin out in the fourth quarter relative to where we were in this quarter.

On slide 11, we walk through the Global Wealth & Investment Management business. Net income was $506 million, down $27 million or 5% from the quarter, based on higher expenses from increases in the investment in our financial advisors as well as higher credit cost. Revenue for the quarter was nearly flat to record first-quarter levels that we saw during the first quarter of 2011 as record asset management fees driven by market and long-term AUM flows were offset by lower brokerage revenues reflecting lower market activity.

During the quarter more than 500 financial advisors joined the leading advisory force pushing the total number of FAs to over 16,000 for the first time since the Merrill Lynch merger. Pending loans within the business grew for the fifth consecutive quarter and were up $1.6 billion.

Turning to slide 12 and looking at the Commercial Banking line of business, net income of $1.4 billion was up $458 million from the first quarter and was at its highest level since the second quarter of 2009. Average deposits grew $6.3 billion or 4% during the quarter as customers in this line of business continued to remain highly liquid.

As we look at average loans, average loans declined $3.1 billion. On the negative we saw commercial real estate decline by roughly $2.2 billion which masked the improvement in the increase in average loans that we saw in commercial and industrial loans in our middle-market business.

Once again very strong improvement in asset quality. Within the commercial bank charge-offs declined $193 million or 38% from the first quarter, non-performers declined 11%, and we continue to see very solid performance in credit.

If we move to page 13 and look at the Global Banking and Markets business, net income for this business was $1.6 billion for the quarter and fell seasonally by $576 million from the first quarter on lower sales and trading results that were partially offset during the quarter by higher investment banking fees.

If we start -- look at sales and trading, the revenues for the quarter were $3.8 billion, a $1.1 billion decline from the first quarter but up approximately $666 million from the second quarter. We have laid out the DVA gains that we saw during the three periods on this slide.

I think as you think about this business and think about the second quarter as far as how we ran the business, as market certainty increased towards the end of the quarter based on what is going on in Europe, global economic concerns, and, quite frankly, the lack of opportunity to make money, we reduced risk at the end of the quarter.

From a risk-weighted asset perspective within sales and trading they declined $37 billion as we reduced legacy assets, exited our proprietary trading business in its entirety, and continued to optimize the balance sheet as we look forward to Basel III. If we move to investment banking, investment banking revenues of $1.6 billion, excluding any self-led transactions, were a record since the closing of the Merrill Lynch merger. And we saw strong activity across all the investment banking products.

If we move to corporate banking, average loans and leases increased $5.8 billion or approximately 6% from the first quarter as we saw strong growth in our international commercial loans and trade finance, which is consistent with what we have spoken about before as we made investments internationally in 2010 and they have started to bear fruit in 2011.

The next three slides we are going to touch on are Consumer Real Estate Services. On a consolidated basis you can see the segment reported a $14.5 billion loss. If we adjust out all of the one-time items that I talked about at the beginning of the call, net loss for the quarter was $954 million versus the $399 million that we saw during the first quarter of 2011. The adjusted loss of $555 million delta occurred as the revenue was impacted by the sale of Balboa, which closed on June 1, as well as higher operating costs within the legacy asset services area.

Would also highlight during the quarter the MSR decreased by $2.9 billion from $15.3 billion to $12.4 billion. And as we look at the cap rate on that MSR it was at 78 basis points at the end of the second quarter versus 95 basis points at the end of the first quarter.

On slide 15 we look at the home loans business, which is the ongoing mortgage operation within our bank. You can see that net income for the quarter was $531 million. If we back out the gain on Balboa, it was $86 million, up slightly from the $77 million in the first quarter. Revenue in the quarter was helped by higher lock revenue that resulted from deliberate pricing actions that we took, as well as favorable channel mix, and was offset by lower production volumes.

On page 16 we look at the Legacy Asset Servicing business, which you will recall is the business where we moved a bucket of loans that are either significantly delinquent loans or products that we no longer are interested in participating in. You can see once we adjust out the one-timers here, the net loss for the quarter was $1.4 billion compared to roughly $800 million during the first quarter. The two principal reasons for the increased loss was the result of increased cost from staffing levels within the business, as well as an increase in provision.

As you monitored the progress in this business, this is obviously a discrete portfolio where we are both trying to work down the number of loans in the portfolio as well as reduce the number of delinquent loans in the portfolio. And if you look in the bottom left-hand corner, you can see we made very good progress during the quarter. Number of loans serviced was down about 3.3% and the number of 60 days -- number of loans 60 days delinquent in the portfolio was down roughly 5%.

On page 17 we look at all other, which is a net loss of $216 million. That is the result of elevated credit costs related to valuation refreshes on our consumer loans as well as lower revenues.

As you look at the revenue line item for the quarter, three types of items that affected revenue for the quarter. We had roughly a $200 million FPO adjustment on our structured notes, $831 million of gains on debt securities, and about $1.1 billion of equity investment income that was comprised of the dividends from our CCB investment, the gain on the disposition of the balance of our BlackRock interest partially offset by a $500 million impairment on a strategic equity investment.

During his opening remarks Brian touched on expenses; we have laid those out here. Would like to say a couple of things. If we exclude the selected items which we detail elsewhere in this presentation, the reported $22.9 billion of expenses was $17.7 billion, in line with the first quarter and relatively flat with the fourth quarter.

Expenses related to increased servicing costs in our mortgaging business as well as the additional client-facing professionals that we have talked about in this presentation were offset by reduced personnel in various other areas of the Company. We referenced new BAC. In May we initiated new BAC, which is an intensive effort on our part to create greater efficiency throughout the organization. We are currently identifying ideas and action plans, and we intend to begin implementing those as we get closer to the end of the year.

While I know you want us to identify some potential benefits to the bottom line, all I can say at this time is we are very focused on expenses and we will update you on the progress as we meet certain milestones.

The next couple of slides I am going to talk briefly about credit trends which continue to be quite strong. On slide 19 we look at consumer credit trends. You can see net charge-offs, delinquencies, and non-performers continue to improve, and the total provision expense for the quarter for our consumer loan portfolios was $3.8 billion, which is comprised of $5.2 billion of charge-offs and a reserve reduction of $1.4 billion.

On slide 20 we look at mortgage and home equity delinquencies. What I would highlight here is you can see delinquencies peaked in the second quarter of 2009 and we have seen five quarters of continued reductions in those delinquencies through the second quarter of 2011.

On slide 21 we look at non-performing assets within our residential mortgage and home equity books. You can see that during the second quarter of 2011 both less-than-180-day as well as greater-than-180-day delinquencies improved in both residential mortgage and home equity. With that being said I would make two additional points.

First, charge-offs do remain elevated due to refreshed valuation losses even though the frequency of loss continues to improve. The second thing I would note is that we have started to see the greater-than-180-day backlog decline as the foreclosure activity has started, particularly in most non-judicial states.

On slide 22 we talk about home price impacts. On the call on June 29 we said we would give you some greater color on that and what we have laid out here are those portfolios that are most subject to immediate changes in home prices.

As you think about home prices in our assumptions, once again we look at macro markets currently. Our assumptions are very much in line with those. We expect a little bit north of a 3% decline in home prices in 2011 and a 1% increase in 2012, largely during the second half.

As you think about the individual portfolios that are affected by home prices, we have roughly $40 billion of portfolios that are directly affected, $13 billion of non-performing loans that are more than 180 days past due that have been written down to net realizable value. Given they are at net realizable value, every 1% decline in home prices will have a correspondingly immediate effect on this portfolio.

Within purchase credit impaired, which is carried at $0.66,(Sic-see presentation slides) we have $27 billion of carrying value. That portfolio, on average, is about 40% delinquent. So as you think about a 1% decline in home prices, it will be immediately affected but not to the entire magnitude of the decline in home prices.

Outside of that which is on our balance sheet, we are affected by home prices in the GSEs. If you think about how we are affected by the GSEs, to the extent home prices go down it affects the collateral losses which they bear. We obviously share in those collateral losses to the extent that we have defects. We currently estimate that about every 1% change in home prices is $125 million relative to the GSEs.

We have not touched on or talked to how changes in home prices can affect our core portfolio. That obviously is something that happens over a period of time and we provide reserves over and above what our modeled reserves are to try to reflect those types of risks that are out there.

On 23 we look at commercial credit trends. Charge-offs declined $180 million in the second order of 2011 relative to the first quarter. Total provision was a benefit of $523 million and reflected a reserve reduction of $1 billion in the quarter. Would also note you can see that both non-performers and reservable criticized declined 11% during the quarter as corporate credit continued to improve.

Let's now shift from credit to capital on 24. We have laid out our Basel I Tier 1 common, which Brian alluded to at 8.23% and, as I mentioned earlier, 23 basis points of benefit based on the improvement in risk-weighted assets under Basel I.

On page 25 we show tangible common, which remains very strong at just under 6%, and tangible book value at $12.65 at the end of the quarter.

As we look out at Basel III, we have laid out on slide 26 the phase-in schedule. What I would say here is we continue to very actively mitigate both the numerator and the denominator effects as we approach Basel III. We will be well above all of the minimums that are required under Basel and once again, as we told you at the end of June, we have a goal of 6.75% to 7% of Tier 1 common as we enter into 2013.

On slide 27, as we think about Basel mitigation, we show you the different things that we have completed since we became very focused on this at the beginning of 2010.

If you look at the bottom left, we talk about the things that we have accomplished during the first half of 2011. Risk-weighted assets under Basel I down by over $60 billion due in part to reducing our legacy capital markets risk exposures. Our MSR, as I referenced, is down $2.5 billion and we have completed asset sale gains generating $1.3 billion of Tier 1 common gains and reducing risk-weighted assets by $5 billion during the first half of the year.

As we look out at the activities that we are focused on to meet the guidance that we have given at year-end 2012, on the numerator side under Basel III we see additional mitigation of $200 billion to $250 billion that will enable us to get to our targeted Basel III risk-weighted assets of $1.8 trillion. The way that we will get there is to continue to reduce our capital-intensive assets, rebalance our portfolios, and optimize our models to be able to get to where we need to for Basel III.

We will also continue to very aggressively, as I talked about in interest rate, to manage the OCI risk associated with our net interest income.

The last point here, future mitigation efforts; we have obviously heard the question that is out there. You are 6.75% to 7% at the end of 2012, where do you go beyond that as you look to get to the fully phased-in number of 9.5% by the end 2019? Even with all of the actions that we have talked about, we have significant additional actions we can take in 2013 and beyond.

We have laid out three portfolios of assets here that we would expect to reduce aggressively. We have a loan run-off portfolio of $70 billion that we would expect at the end of 2012 that runs off by roughly 20% a year. We have a structured credit trading book that is roughly $30 billion at the end of 2012 that will run-off over a five-year period as well, and we have a private equity portfolio that is roughly $50 billion under Basel III that will be out there at the end of 2012 that we would expect to run-off over the several years beyond 2012.

In addition to that you can expect to see us continue to reduce assets in the way that we have done over the course of the last six quarters.

If we move now from the denominator to the numerator, two things I want to touch on here. The first is the MSR.

We referenced that the MSR is $12.5 billion at the end of the second quarter. You can expect to see us taking two types of actions with respect to the MSR going forward that will benefit the numbers beyond the 6.75% to 7% range I quoted.

The first is we are taking a very close look at the types of activities we are originating and servicing. So on the front end you will see actions where we look to scale back that which we have put on our books to service. Secondly, we are very focused on looking out and moving MSR assets through sale in those instances where it makes sense. We had roughly $70 million of gains on MSR sales during the second quarter of this year.

The last thing I want to highlight on the numerator is the deferred tax asset and the multiplier effect with respect to that. As I think everyone knows, the deferred tax asset flows through the Basel calculations in several different ways depending on whether or not it's an NOL DTA or a timing DTA.

As you think about the leverage though and the benefits that we will have from the reductions in DTA through 2012 and significantly but beyond -- at the end of June we will have roughly $30 billion of a net deferred tax asset. Roughly two-thirds of that is associated with NOLs and one-third is associated with timing. The net effect of that is that we would expect our Tier 1 common to grow at a rate that is above that which is improved just by the generation of net income.

As we look to wrap up and close, we continue to work very diligently in getting the legacy assets -- or the legacy issues as well as the legacy assets behind us while we reposition our business for future growth. If you think about the earnings this quarter, they demonstrated that our businesses outside of mortgage are producing attractive returns even with the headwinds of low interest rates.

Deposits continue to grow as we make progress on our customer-focused relationship strategy. Credit quality continues to improve. We have solid capital ratios, our liquidity position is very strong, and we expect to grow capital going forward. We look at the opportunity each day to make progress and that is what we are all about.

And with that let me open it up to questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Glenn Schorr, Nomura.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA: Thanks very much. Quickie, I think it's good to see the $200 billion, $250 billion risk-weighted asset reduction expectations. Just curious what you think the revenue or earnings associated with that are?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think if you look at and you saw the individual books, one of the most significant contributors to that reduction of $200 billion to $250 billion is actually something over the last several quarters that we have taken losses on. I think if you think about the structured credit trading book that is not something where you see significant amounts of income on as well.

So I think the net of it is while there is some income, there are also certain elements of that that have been expensive so we really don't see any material level of impact to the income statement from reducing that $200 billion to $250 billion.

GLENN SCHORR: Not bad. I noticed on one of your first slides that long-term debt was down a bunch. That is in line with, I think, your previous thoughts. Just curious on what your refinancing schedule thought process is for the next, say, six, 12 months. What do you need to fund, what don't you?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. I think as you look out we obviously put out a 22 months to funding. I think it's important -- even though the mortgage settlement is uncertain that 22 months to funding reflects the payment of the $8.5 billion associated with the mortgage settlement. We don't know exactly when that happens, but we have assumed it will be within the funding window.

What you haven't seen here is in addition to taking down debt we continued to aggressively reduce our short-term debt with the goal of driving our commercial paper balances to zero. And the last comment I would make there is the reason the balances continue to remain as high as they are is we are preserving liquidity to be able to pay off the balance of our TLGP debt at the end of June.

And as you think about issuances, I would say that we will continue to be opportunistic as it relates to getting the debt markets and, at the same time, we are being very aggressive in looking to generate liquidity through selling parent company assets.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Bruce, how much did the loan rates hit the hedge component in 1Q and in the second quarter? How much did that hedging component hurt NII and NIM? You mentioned that was a factor.

BRUCE THOMPSON: It was about $300 million, John.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And you did use the term trough for the NIM and I guess NII too. Could you give us your outlook in the near term about where you see the NIM and NII heading?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Sure. I think we would clearly expect -- let me start with the net interest income -- we would clearly expect net interest income, if not at the trough, to clearly be pretty close to that.

On the NIM, there are two comments that I would make. The first is the rates that we are seeing with respect to the corporate loans that we have made have not shown any material deterioration. So the yields that we are seeing on the asset side continue to hold up.

What I do want to caution you to a little bit is to the extent that we continue to generate the types of liquidity on the deposit side that we are, NIM will be affected to the extent that that happens because we are not going to chase long-duration assets that have OCI risk and we're not going to chase assets that we don't feel comfortable with the credit. So realize that that margin may jump around a little bit depending on exactly how strong our deposit growth is.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: John, we have been consistent for several quarters, and we actually the last couple quarters did better than we thought on a reported basis and the net interest income line.

But if we still stay consistent where we have been, it troughs in the second and third quarter of this year, and then ought to come out from there.

JOHN MCDONALD: That's the net interest income, Brian, you said, drops?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The dollars that Bruce talked about.

JOHN MCDONALD: And then NIM, Bruce? Your answer there to summarize on the NIM percentage could bounce around either way, give or take, depending on what happens on liquidity?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think that is fair. Once again it's going to be a function of liquidity versus the assets that are available. But we are going to be very sensitive to both OCI risk and credit risk with respect to that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So then on Basel III and, Brian, the question about the capital raise. You have consistently stated you don't need to raise capital. Could you again just kind of walk through your reasoning on that?

Is that because you have gotten a sense from regulators that a Basel III fast-forward is not going to happen and that you will be allowed to meet the requirements as they are actually phased in?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think that the sense we get from the world regulatory community is that the phase-in was a phase-in put in purposely when it will be put in this fall. But importantly, I think -- what, I think, John, we got a lot of people focused on was from here to 2012. And what, I think, Bruce was trying to lay out earlier is beyond 2012 there is significant mitigation both on the numerator and denominator side.

So a lot of the discussion about how you get from the 7% level to the 9.5% over that course of the five, six years. People -- the pace at which you move in the first couple of years of that is high because of the amount of numerator improvement you get through the DTAs and other things. So what we tried to do today is to show you that we believe that we can get to the 7% -- 6.5%, 6.75% to 7% we said by year-end 2012 continuing to improve well beyond that. And that takes into account us continuing to make the great improvements in the optimization on both the RWA side and the numerator.

Everything we hear that is consistent with where we need to go. The sheer amount of capital we have, if you just step back and think about it compared to where we were 12 months ago or 24 months ago, is quite high, including -- both on a ratio side and raw dollars. So we continue to make improvements that makes us feel comfortable, and we got to continue to show you that bridge each quarter as we execute.

JOHN MCDONALD: So there is no pressure to raise capital from a regulatory side of things?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: No.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then, Bruce, on the January 1, 2013, 7% goal that is assuming -- you are hitting yourself on the numerator deductions there, right? If you didn't have the numerator deductions, because those don't start till 2014, do you have a sense of what your Basel III actual number would be as reported and required on January 1, 2013?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I would think about that number, John, as being well above 8%.

JOHN MCDONALD: Right. And that is what you would actually be reporting when it starts, right?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: There would be no numerator deductions. The way to think about it is that each year's numerators deductions are coming in over the pace beginning in 2014 and beyond. We will have made numerator improvement before that, and so that is a fully frontloaded as if it were 1/1/2019 number, the 6.75% to 7%.

JOHN MCDONALD: So why -- you are showing us this lower one of 6.75% to 7% just because the market is asking for it? The regulators haven't asked you to fast forward that; you are just doing it to show a more conservative number?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we all basically said if we show you that number that shows you there is no -- you don't have to wait for it to come in and I think that is the goal there is -- our peers have all been showing it to you. We have been showing it to you, so we will continue to show that. But I think as we move through each period the reported number will be much higher than that and that is what you have pointed out.

So it's not a question of capital adequacy under any standard that we measure, because remember the standard at the end of 2012 is 3.5%. So if you think about that in our context you have $100 billion of capital more than the minimum, so it's not a (inaudible). We are doing it to show you what the fully phased-in number is so you can compare us against other people.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. A follow-up question on capital. So risk-weighted assets came down under Basel I by about $40 billion in the quarter. What was the effective Basel III RWA decline?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We don't have an exact number on that, Betsy. What I would say is that in almost all cases the Basel III number is going to be higher than the Basel I number, but we don't have that exact number.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Because it just looks like you are $200 billion to $250 billion RWA under Basel III; on a quarterly basis comes out at roughly the same amount.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, there are some fundamental steps to that -- Betsy, in terms of -- think of going from I to II.5 to III and the optimization around model developments and ways it works in the trading books. So it will not be as ratable as you may see by dividing it out, but the math works. But it will come in bigger chunks I think, frankly, over the next couple, three quarters as we get some of these models fully implemented and optimized.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So it's back-end loaded, not front-end loaded?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: No, it's more front-end loaded (multiple speakers); it will come a little quicker in the latter part of this year and early part of next year as the models get implemented. Then it will slow down just to the grind of what we are doing on the asset side.

BETSY GRASECK: And then in the first half of 2011 obviously you had some asset sales and then you have got your 6.75% to 7% goal by the end of 2012, but I don't see any asset sales in this bucket that you have identified. So then you have got future mitigation goals where you have got continued asset sales.

So are you just suggesting that if you did asset sales between now and 2012, recognized some gains that would be incremental to the 6.75% to 7%?

BRUCE THOMPSON: That is correct.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Because you obviously have the opportunity to make some asset sales in the next quarter. People have been -- I know you are not going to comment on what you are planning on doing, but if you were to sell anything you would -- obviously that would be incremental. Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If we sell assets it would be incremental.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then can you just give us a -- I know you can't talk specifically about the mortgage foreclosure settlement, but maybe you can give us a sense as to where you think it is relative to a final conclusion. Are we likely to get a settlement here in the next quarter or so, or is it still touch-and-go and who knows?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: What I would say there, Betsy, is I think, as you all read about, this is something that is very fluid and continues to move around. What I would say is that I think everyone realizes it would be a good thing to get this wrapped up so that people can move forward. There are obviously a lot of people that are involved with this that need to get to the same place.

What I would say from a financial impact perspective, as we look out at and as we understand what is out there, we'd kind of ask you to think about one or two things. The first is that during the second quarter, as we mentioned at the end of June, we did provide some litigation reserves during the second quarter to be able to help address any cash type penalties that would come out of that. Beyond that we believe that we have got reserves that we can direct towards some of the settlements. We just won't really know the exact amount of that until this is finalized and we see if everyone can get to a common place.

BETSY GRASECK: Is there an opportunity for potentially you to settle outside of the whole industry?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I am sorry?

BETSY GRASECK: Is there an opportunity for you to settle outside of the whole industry?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I wouldn't comment on litigation strategy at this point, Betsy, but I think that Bruce gave you a sense of what we are trying to accomplish.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then lastly, on the settlement that you did announce with the consortium, clearly the market is seeing some dissents coming in. Did you expect them, how do you plan to deal with that?

And then lastly, did you get an IRS opinion on the settlement before you announced it, i.e., is it going to be -- do you expect it will be deemed to be handled within the REMIC structure of the trust?

BRUCE THOMPSON: If you look at the agreement, we did not get an IRS opinion before the deal was announced. The deal is obviously subject to that. We have no reason to believe that we wouldn't get that opinion.

As it relates to the reaction from holders, I think when we were on the call on the 29th -- this is obviously a unique structure. The types of challenges and the like that we have seen that are out there where clearly expected by both the Gibbs & Bruns group, as well as ourselves.

The other thing that you have probably seen out there is the work that was done and released from the trustee and all of the experts that opined and spoke to the work that they have done. So I think the only thing that we would say is that we obviously did a lot of work and had a lot of smart people around it. The investor group did the same, as did the trustee. There is a court date that has been set out there for November and we will continue to see how it progresses forward.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. Brian, going back to the first question on the revenue impact of shrinking the risk-weighted assets, on the February investor day you talked about a normalized number but you couldn't give us -- you couldn't tell us when we are going to get there. And that normalized number is roughly in that $200 billion to $250 billion range.

Do you have any on any update to that normalized number guidance, or you just don't really feel that this lower risk-weighted assets will have a meaningful impact on those numbers neither?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: When we gave you those numbers we had in it the mitigation that Bruce described earlier on the risk-weighted assets.

As far as an update, if you think about -- let's just use the PPNR guidance that we gave you. If you look at what we did this quarter, at the time we told you out in a more normalized environment we would be $45 billion to $50 billion, $30 billion from the core businesses and $15 billion from card. This quarter we did about $14 billion-plus from card which leaves a need to do obviously around $30 billion, $31 billion from the rest.

We did about $20-odd-billion from the rest of the businesses; leaves us about $8 billion short. If you think about how to make that up, there is really two major components. One is as we said at that day and, Paul, you are well familiar with, as rates rise the benefits to the deposit franchise become a lot more lucrative and the net interest margin will expand back out. That ought to be worth $3 billion annually.

Then on the cost side in the PPNR number that is $8.5 billion to $8.7 billion this quarter is still the operating costs from all the mortgage legacy assets which -- and also the elevated costs we're working on our new BAC project. The operating costs, as you saw in one of the slides Bruce had, is about $1.7 billion, $1.8 billion for Legacy Asset Servicing just this quarter. That will drop $1 billion-plus a quarter easily and then the rest of the costs work will come through.

So I think we still see that when you put that together sort of $14 billion-ish, $14.5 billion, on card plus the need to get to $30 billion on the rest of it to get to the level we talked about. But if you look at the shortfall there is really two major components -- getting the work on the cost side and the net interest margin expansion when rates rise.

And you put it all against that that we are obviously projecting more normalized time and a little bit better economy than the growth rates we are seeing now in the GDP. So we still feel comfortable with that guidance and we still are working towards that and making all the preparations. The RWA optimization was factored into our thinking there.

The reality of that RWA optimization is that along with a bunch of assets that are not core to what we do as a company. Something like the structured credit trading book is not a business that we continue to do in the way that it was done in the 2007/2008 timeframe, but it takes till 2013, 2014, 2015 for it to run off. So as you think about that I think we are comfortable with the projections that we gave then and I just tried to give you a little insight on the PPNR, for example, of the $45 billion to $50 billion, how do we get back in that range.

PAUL MILLER: Thank you very much, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Matthew O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A question on expenses. You just gave us a little commentary in terms of what might be coming down in the magnitude, but obviously the cost savings opportunity seems quite large. There has been some talk about reducing the branches by about 10%.

At the end of this year, when you are done with your internal work, are you going to present to the Street kind of a total cost savings program in terms of dollars and more backup detail?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, in the third-quarter call, because we will finish the work during the third quarter, we will have the work that is really on -- think of all the consumer businesses and all the centralized groups that will be done. Then in the third quarter we start with the GWIM, Global Commercial Banking business, and GBAM business and we split it in half just because of the size of our company and the amount of work. So we will give you that in the third quarter.

We are deep into it now; we have been seeing all the ideas. We have had the steering committee meetings and going through it, and we are very confident, as I said earlier, that it will provide great benefit to the Company.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Then as you go through initiatives such as this, the size of the opportunity, what type of macro backdrop do you try and keep in mind? Obviously there is a lot of moving pieces on the capital markets, on the rate environment. Do you have kind of a base case that you try and manage for and then provide some flexibility up and down?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, we obviously do. If you think about how we've managed the money, the Company across the last several quarters, the environment we have managed into is to try to figure out how to keep the -- leave aside the quarterly expense that might come from the assessments or things which are more volatile that are harder to predict. But the core operating expenses, the core headcount we have been managing it to try to make sure as we deployed assets in places we wanted them we were taking them out of other areas to fund it. And so we have been running at about that level.

I would say that longer term I hope your expectation and our expectation is the economy will grow faster, but the backdrop of this is an economy moving towards trend over the next couple of years, not at trend tomorrow. So it's a modest growth environment that the economy keeps grinding along and grinding along but doesn't improve dramatically in the short term, but improves over time.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. And then separately, I think you have addressed most of the capital questions out there, but just to clarify the targeted capital ratio at the end of next year that would not include any potential gains from the CCB. But what about additional private-label losses of up to $5 billion you have talked about, the state attorney general's settlement? Have you factored in any of the mortgage hits as well?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The question and what Betsy had is what do you have in asset sales and things like that, so I think embedded in there are estimates for ongoing costs of litigation and things, normal run rate costs of what our earnings would be over the next quarter. So it's all in there and when we factor that all in we get to the 6.75% to 7%.

And I would be careful about trying to pluck any piece out and say this piece is in, this piece is in. But we factor it all in in terms of our expectations of when litigation costs will come or when asset sales, as Betsy talked about, will take place, if any, and how they will affect it. So it's in our estimates and we will tell you that -- we will give you a quarterly report of how we are improving them and the progress we are making.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. But just to be clear, that is an all-in number including both potential ongoing mortgage costs as well as opportunities to take gains?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And earnings of the franchise and things like that.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. All right, thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And what we are trying to be clear with you is from 2012 out, I think because we had such focus on now through 2012 because at the time that we -- spent a lot of time on this earlier this year; was before the SIFI buffer, etc. As the SIFI buffer came inwhat we wanted to make sure that you are seeing is the opportunities from 2013, 2014, and out through numerator optimization and denominator work that will help drive us to the next level. So from now to 2012 it factors in all the things we just talked about.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Just staying on the capital issue, I guess the other potential events that could cause a capital raise would really relate to funding or rating agencies or CDS spreads. What are you seeing from those areas?

I guess CDS spreads are a fraction of where they were at the crisis peak, but they are up from the low. If rating agencies threaten a downgrade might you have to raise capital? What I am really getting to and you've talked a lot about it already, Brian, is just what is your level of conviction that you don't need to raise capital?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The level of conviction is given the economics scenarios which are moving along but at a very slow, steady pace is that we don't see it. From a funding perspective, I think if you look, Bruce mentioned it earlier and I will let him touch on it, that we have driven down short-term funds to a very small amount. Our plan is to take it literally down next to zero.

We have built up tremendous liquidity. The ratings of the banks and the broker-dealer are separate. We continue to operate the business as if -- between all the things going on around the world that you can see disruptions in the markets and we continue to watch that carefully. So, Bruce, do you want to --?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Yes and I would just add, Mike, a couple of things. We obviously continue to work with the rating agencies very closely. I think if you look out at S&P you can see that we had them take a look at the broker-dealer, both Pierce, Fenner & Smith as well as MLI, and they actually notched the broker-dealer up. So we felt good about that rating.

The other thing I would say as it relates to access to capital, we obviously put the news of the settlement and released the guidance at the end of June. We went out and raised $2.5 billion in the fixed income markets at the beginning of July at attractive rates. So we are very sensitive to the rating agencies, we continue to work with them closely and we continue to be opportunistic as it relates to accessing the markets.

MIKE MAYO: What about your exposure to the countries in Europe, the PIIGS countries? What is your net exposure? What is your gross exposure?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, if you look out at -- in the supplement, we have put some information out there. You can see that the number that we have out there is $16.7 billion. As you think about that $16.7 billion, realize it has been reduced by roughly $1.1 billion due to hedges.

Outside of that $16.7 billion that was reduced by $1.1 billion of hedges, we have additional protection that is not factored into that number. Roughly $1.7 billion of CVA hedges and an additional $3 billion of single-name hedges that we have not reduced those numbers by.

So we were active and early in getting after this exposure starting in the first quarter of 2010. We have laid out the exposure with the caveats that I have just mentioned. And while we are very focused and vigilant in watching it and trying to think through what the spillover effects could be, as we sit here today we feel very good about where the exposure is.

MIKE MAYO: How much could you lose if things go worse in Europe, which could in turn potentially lead to a capital raise? I am asking you.

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think what you have to think through as you think through the exposure, there is three different kinds of buckets of exposure that we have within the region. The first is the corporate loan book.

What I would say is that if you look at the corporate loan book, it is largely to large multinational, global leading companies. And to the extent that the amounts are above house guidelines, in many cases, like I said, we buy protection. So the corporate loan book we feel very good about.

If you look at the liquid traded book, we only have one country where we have any meaningful level of sovereign exposure and we have protection that largely offsets that. Then we have a securities book that is marked to market that we mark every day. So as we look at any meaningful level of losses from where we sit today we just don't see it, and clearly we don't see it whatever lead to there being any kind of a capital event.

MIKE MAYO: And then last follow-up for Brian again. Brian, think I heard you just say we don't see it in this economic scenario. If you can provide any more confidence, because at the start of the year where you were considering the possibility of a dividend increase by the end of the year and now several investors ask about the idea of a potential capital raise. We have kind of gone full circle here.

So just your level of conviction. Can you provide any more comfort? You have more confidential information than any of us have on the call.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have given you the improvements we have made in the capital. Even with a sizable $20 billion charge this quarter, it's a net impact of 20 basis points so our economic scenario is posted, is out there. The scenario that we use to plan against is the one you see out in the domain, which is modest growth, and we don't see anything in that that challenges.

We have reserved -- the difference between now and a couple of years ago when people were worried about the deterioration in the economy, when unemployment obviously rose, is think about the reserve levels we have, think about the improvements in the portfolios that we have made across that. So when there is a lot of discussion about future home risk.

The risk, the charge-offs in our mortgage portfolios combined between home equity and first residential -- $2.5 billion a quarter, still an unacceptable level -- but they are down from the peak. Even while housing prices actually had deteriorated from the time they peaked, because the quality of the portfolios and the quality of the borrowers in the portfolio is different than it was. So that gives us a good step between the reserves, the capital we have built, and the quality of portfolios to hold us against economic times which are going to bounce around. And that is what we have done.

So you see this quarter with a charge of $20 billion we took a 20 basis point hit to ratios and plowed through it.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. Maybe, I don't know if you could flesh out the answer a little more as to how you are confident that this quarter or the third quarter are the trough in net interest income and what things would kind of lead you to think that that number turns around and starts to grow?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: A couple of things that I would say. If you think about the quarter in what we absorbed, it was obviously a fairly significant negative effect on hedge income and we clearly would not expect that to happen again given how flat the yield curve is as we look out there.

The second thing that I would say is that we had some run-offs in the corporate book during the second quarter that we wouldn't expect to see again. So I think as we look at the number, absent some meaningful change in the rate environment, when we look at both the assets that we have as well as the rates that are applied against them, I think that we feel pretty good that we are pretty close to the trough as it relates to net interest income.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Bruce, in that $300 million that you identified on the hedging, does that come back or is that just the absence of a negative in the future?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I don't want to speculate if it comes back or it doesn't, but I think you know during the first quarter we had some benefits from hedging. So the number bounces around. But I just want to reiterate that the reason it's there is because we are very sensitive to OCI risk and making sure that as we go out towards Basel III that we don't have any negative effects from OCI.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think if you think about it more broadly, what has been going on in the last many quarters that we have been trying to make sure people saw is that as you ran off on some higher yielding assets which don't have a net profit contribution because the charge-offs exceed the yield and that keeps coming down that was hurting us. And then what we -- and the offsets that will grind down your debt cost and your deposit cost.

The issue now is that if the core loan growth is still -- is modest, and even backing out the run-off portfolios just because the economic activity is not that strong. So that helps in that we are seeing that activity be a little stronger than it was several quarters ago but it's bumping along.

The deposits, we continue to drive down deposit costs and all-in cost of debt by paying off the term debt, as someone mentioned earlier. So we will be grinding at this. So the assumption is as we trough out here it will continue for a while, it's not going to leap right back up so we want to make sure that you guys see it. But it's in line with what we have been predicting for six quarters, that this would be the place where we would sort of see it bottom out.

But long term we will have to grind from here on both the liability pricing side, the debt cost side, and also you will grind out loan growth slowly but surely.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay. And as a separate but somewhat related issue is you mentioned $475 million a quarter of impact from Durbin. Obviously that is less than you had thought before potentially, but can you talk a little bit about your strategies to mitigate that, both from a product and pricing standpoint?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Sure. I think usually Durbin gets caught with all the other changes that have gone on as opposed to any one of them going back what seems like a long time ago -- the CARD Act and then Reg E and Durbin and all the pieces around the consumer business. So how are we mitigating the activity?

If you look what we have been doing is the new account structure has now been rolled out in three states for new accounts and then now for all accounts and they are converting the accounts. That is all going very well so we would expect that conversion to take place during 2012.

What that does is institutes some monthly fees and other ways customers can pay us, away from overdrafts or, frankly, the value of the interchange on Durbin. And so the pricing structure in that is set, will be set -- is set and will be set to generate the activity.

The good news is that -- reasonable good news is that where we ended up in Durbin is a place where we can continue to drive debit usage. You can see from the statistics on the card page you can see the payments made through plastic in our franchise continue to grow 5%, 6% a year. You take out the gas prices it's 4% to 5% a year. Gas prices contributed 1.5% to 2% of that. So we will continue to drive the usage of that which will continue to drive the revenue up from a level after the Durbin takes it away.

So it's the account structure, it's the pricing within that monthly accounts, it's the charges that you have seen some of us put in across the last several months to make up for some of the fee loss, but the real benefit of that come really as we convert the entire account base to new structure in 2012 and into 2013. The benefits come in 2013 after you are done with the conversions.

Think about this, this is all 30 million checking holders going through a conversion in our franchise. So it's a large conversion and will take place after we finish migrating the deposit platforms together.

It's going well. It's having the intended outcome, both from a dollars-and-cents basis but also from a customer behaviors basis, and we will continue to drive that.

That all being said, the other way that we will get paid is to have to maintain discipline deposit pricing as short-term rates rise as the economy improves. And that will be critical for us to do. You have seen our ability to continue to take down deposit pricings and grow deposits. The competitor for customers' deposit money won't be competitive until short-term rates rise quite a bit, and so if we maintain that deposit price another way to make up for that cost.

OPERATOR: Edward Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. Most of my questions were answered but I have one specific question for Bruce. It's a bit detailed.

If you look on page 10 of the supplement, which is the liability side of the average balance sheet, I am focused in on your cost of federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements of repurchase. That cost this quarter was 159 basis points, up from 129 basis points last quarter and 79 basis points a year ago.

And I am comparing that to other banks. I just compare that to JPMorgan, for example. A year ago you actually borrowed on that line for 5 basis points less than JPMorgan did at 79 basis points versus their 84 basis points. A quarter ago you borrowed for 20 basis points more at 129 versus their 109. Now you are borrowing for 49 basis points more.

Is there something going on in terms of your ability to borrow in the wholesale markets and that cost rising more rapidly than peers? Or why, in your opinion, has this line item, which is pretty substantial at $338 billion, grown from a borrowing cost perspective so much more rapidly than peers?

BRUCE THOMPSON: I think we can get back to you with the exact numbers. I believe, Ed, that there is a couple of things going on within the numbers. The first is that some of the hedges are directed towards that, so as we talked about some of the hedge income and the ineffectiveness you will see some of that there.

The second thing is we have looked out at and we have talked about we are extending, and within some of our repo books extending the maturities on those repo books as we go forward. And the third thing is, and we can get you the exact number, is that during the second quarter within the markets business is we borrow in Europe for dividend stocks. Given that the dividends in Europe are paid in the second quarter, the borrowing costs typically flips up a little bit in the second quarter for that.

So we can get you the exact numbers, but I think those are the three things that would contribute to that number.

ED NAJARIAN: I mean as I just sort of look at and do net interest margin math, this increase looks like something that had a -- it was part of the negative impact. Is this a number you expect to stabilize or come down in future quarters or would this trend of rising continue to happen?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think if you think about the three things that I have given, we are going to continue to extend repo so that piece of it you would expect. Clearly, with respect to the European stocks, that is a seasonal thing in the second quarter as well as the hedging effectiveness. We would hope that those wouldn't continue. So I think, to answer your question, one probably does, two don't.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. Two questions for you. First, on the commercial bank I think you said that CRE declined by about $2.2 billion and then you had some loan growth in middle-market C&I. Has the middle-market C&I loan growth continued as we have gone into the third quarter here and was the CRE run-off planned or unplanned?

BRUCE THOMPSON: Start with the commercial real estate. I think given both the capital markets, the refinance -- as well as the refinancing markets, I would say part of the real estate was planned and part of it, quite frankly, were assets that were either criticized or non-performers coming off the books. So as we look at that commercial real estate number we obviously don't like to see loans going down.

At the same time there was some stuff that you would have wanted to come off. We feel very good about where the commercial real estate portfolio is now and, quite frankly, or trying to figure out places to do more commercial real estate where it makes sense.

With respect to the C&I portfolio within the middle market, that is about $37 billion of the overall commercial banking portfolio. And if you go back and look at that since the second quarter of last year that portfolio is up about 10%, and that really is the core guts of the client base that we are very focused on within the commercial bank.

NANCY BUSH: I guess sort of the root of my question is the companies that we have seen report thus far are sort of reporting the glimmers of commercial, beginning commercial loan growth. I just wanted to see if that was your experience as well or if you can just give us an overall view of where -- whether we are at a growth inflection point yet?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would say, Nancy, as you came from the end of last year and the first part of this year you were seeing -- David Darnell would say the core middle-market book customers were optimistic and they were starting to grow a little bit. I think that has sort of flattened out a little bit, so there is still some growth as we have pointed out here, but if you look at the utilization rates and stuff they have now stabilized.

Again they were at a low probably of 31% to 32%. They are sort of in the 34.5% to [30]% range. They would be in the 43% range in normalized times. Now people have excess cash.

But I would say that as you have gone through the year this year I think that people are less aggressive, our clients are less aggressive in the core, broad, middle-market spectrum than they were earlier this year, but the loan balances are holding in and growing slightly.

NANCY BUSH: Brian, I just have one final question for you. We have been getting several articles lately about what seems to be a permanent change in the attitude towards homeownership in the US. I wanted to get your opinion on that.

Also just when all is said and done here, and whatever year that may happen, how do you see the mortgage business as a contributor to the bottom line at BAC?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Let me go to the second one, Nancy, because I think it kind of answers the first one in some respects. Leave aside the exact dollars and sense, but the way we see the mortgage business in our company going forward is we have 50 million consumer households; 30 million have their core banking, checking accounts with us, etc. Our job is to provide mortgage products to not only our general customers in our retail and preferred segments, but also our global wealth management customers in a very strong, very focused, and very fair way. And that is what we are going to drive to and that is what you expect to see in our mortgage business going forward.

I think the idea being in a stand-alone context where we had the wholesale business, the broker-driven business. We have gotten out of the reverse mortgage; we have gotten out of -- we continue to shape our view of what the correspondent business looks like. But the business that we will be in it will be a strong direct to consumer -- director to retail, direct to the consumer mortgage business, and that is where we are moving -- Barb and her team are moving the business to.

That actually fits in to the capital demands and MSR and other things, as you could well figure out. So that is how we are going to run the business for the benefit of our customers, as the same way we are running all our businesses. Making sure every ounce of our capital is used to support that core customer base and, frankly, to do the mortgage product very well for that customer base.

When you back in to the broader context, I think the homeownership discussion is a policy discussion I leave to the policy makers. But as you look at our customers and listen to them and watch what they have gone through I think that the people in the world my children's' age are going to think differently about home ownership in terms of the value of it and how it factors into their thinking because of what they have seen going on around them. And I think that is just the reality we are in.

It doesn't mean it's good or bad; it's just the reality. And I think with the population growth dynamics and things like that in the United States I think that that is going to be the reality of a more sober society on this. I think our job is to provide products in that and help people become homeowners, because it's ultimately something they may aspire to but do it the right way.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: When you look at the trading results on page 26 of the supplement, it looks like total trading profits this quarter were almost exactly in line with the trailing four-quarter average. And so I am curious is this the new normal, or do you still view this as a depressed trading environment? What is the outlook for this business?

And if the revenues remain at this level that they have been in, is the expense side of that business properly structured then?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would say that -- I still say we are probably below normal right now in the minds of Tom and the team running it. So I think that you won't see what you saw, say, in the first quarter of last year and things like that. That was way above normal.

We have tried to talk about -- we have talked about $4.5 billion range in total revenue, which includes this plus the margin and other things. So I think that that is -- I think we are still below the normal. The question is unless you see the improvement back to normal we will have to continue to work on the expense. In fact, that is what Tom has been doing.

If you look at our business, the headcount that he has had has been relatively flat, but what we have done is deployed in the international space for example. Obviously Asia being a key component where, from a research side, we have got strong Asia-wide research ratings; Japan number one ratings, things like that.

So we deployed resources there to help our teams, salespeople to cover the clients. At the same time the total deployed resources headcount has been flattish and we have been taking it out of places where the opportunities aren't as big. So ought to expect us to continue to manage the business that way.

In the aggregate this is a little below normal. If it doesn't get above normal then the cost structure will come down and the comp structure is one of the quick ways to adjust it, but ultimately you got to keep factoring that in.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: At this time I would like to turn it back over to Mr. Brian Moynihan for closing comments.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you for your attention and we look forward to talking to you in October. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may disconnect at this time. Thank you and have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110802e77j00209
  


 HD
 Q1  2011  Bank  of  America  Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
16,010 words
   PD
15 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Bank of America first-quarter earnings review. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session. I will be standing by should you need any assistance.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Kevin Stitt. Please go ahead, sir.

KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Chuck Noski begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.

These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.

Also joining us this morning, as he did last -- three months ago, will be Neil Cotty our Chief Accounting Officer. And with that let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning, everyone. Before we get started this morning I wanted to spend a couple of minutes on announcements that occurred this morning other than earnings. Obviously we will cover in this call the announcement with the FSA assured on the monoline, but on the leadership side I just wanted to talk through what we have done there.

Last year Chuck came to me and due to an illness of a close family member in California, where he has lived, it was going to be clear that he may not be able to move and we decided to continue to talk about the situation. He had made a commitment to move at the end of the school year, obviously, because he had a daughter who was a senior in high school. But with that it became clear as we moved through this quarter that Chuck could not move so I asked Chuck to take another leadership position that could help us work on some client matters in the mortgage company and help with the transition to a new CFO.

So what we announced this morning was to have Bruce Thompson takeover for Chuck as CFO effective -- and that transition will be completed by the end of the second quarter. Chuck will continue as a great judge [in perspective] to help Bruce continue to learn the tasks.

Chuck has served as the CFO at a time when we have had tremendous transformation in our financials. He has been a great partner and we are glad that we came up with something that worked for everybody.

Bruce many of you know. He has been the Chief Risk Officer; he has done a great job for us since last year doing that. He ran our capital markets business for Tom and ran leverage finance and many other things in the Company over his 15-year career here.

As Chief Risk Officer he managed us through a difficult situation, including, as you will see in some of the pages later, a great reposition of the balance sheet.

In addition to those two changes, we also announced that Gary Lynch will join us as Global Head of Legal, Compliance, and Regulatory Relations. My judgment was that we wanted to continue to add to the quality and capabilities of our management team. As Gary became available, his reputation on the street, in legal circles, and regulators is well-known. He has also been the Head of Enforcement at the SEC.

The relationships he has around the world -- he spent the last couple of years in London -- will help us outside the United States. He will join us when his garden leaves -- expires later this year.

So with the management changes behind us, let's shift to the quarterly results. With that I will start on slide four. Rather than get into the some of the details on the page, let me just give you the themes for this quarter which are similar to those we related to in early March.

The franchise that we have built over the last 230 years in this company continues to deliver and you can see that in the numbers and the statistics this morning. Obviously, the mortgage business is still in need of continued repositioning. We will continue to work on that.

But what you have seen is solid customer activity across the board. Our focus on changing the strategy and the consumer deposits business has led to the first quarter of net checking account growth, a return to profit in that business, improved customer satisfaction across the board, the best retention of customers in that business in many quarters.

In other areas, we continue to grow our FA headcount. We have had strong referrals in the businesses across -- to each other. The deposit growth through the whole franchise has gone over $1 trillion in total deposits, and as the economy has improved a bit we are starting to see some loan growth on a core basis in the middle market business with David Darnell. And we will touch on some of that later but the key theme is the franchise continues to deliver.

As you back up to the second point, revenue rose from last quarter, expenses were flat on a gross basis to $20 billion including goodwill -- and I will cover it a little later -- up $500 million more in our core business. But the absolute levels are elevated and I am going to talk about what we are doing what about that in a few minutes.

Overall, earnings improved to $2 billion or $0.17, but we are still impacted by charges as we continue to pull out through the financial crisis. We had $5 billion in charges this quarter we absorbed and we also had $3 billion between reserve releases and higher private equity to the good side.

When we talked you at investor day we said we were shooting for pretax, pre-provision profits in the out -- as we normalize to $45 billion to $50 billion. This quarter Chuck will walk you through the one-time items, but if you adjust for those you will get to a number of approximately $10 billion, which is up from last quarter. And I think puts us in a position that we can see clearly how we build the bridge to the $45 billion to $50 billion level as we normalize.

That normalization requires the interest rate environment to change more fundamentally to a more normalized environment. We have got to take the costs down across the board. As the economy continues to plug away, we will continue to make progress in other revenue sources.

In addition, one of the things we talked about at investor day was the need to continue to drive down the legacy assets and risk in the Company. During this quarter we took care of one of the monoline exposures, we absorbed the home price fall off and we also continued to have our loan portfolio run-off across all categories of portfolio we identified for you a couple quarters ago.

This quarter that portfolio ran down by about $6 billion, excluding the government-insured loans which we show you in the appendix. The cost of that to the P&L was about $1.9 billion pretax this quarter. Again, Tom and his team did a good job reducing legacy trading assets and we continue to make progress in that area.

When you look at the balance sheet, we continue to position the balance sheet. Our reserves, even after release, remains strong -- 4.3% to loans, 1.63 times trailing charge-offs. We made progress improving the capital ratios, lowering our risk-weighted assets again, growing liquidity, and reducing long-term debt. All those important metrics we identified for you a few months ago.

We also continue to move forward to take advantage of the opportunities we identified for you. We have a great opportunity as a company in the affluent and mass affluent segments, and between Joe Price and Sallie Krawcheck and the team they continue to see good growth there.

We continue to have opportunities on our international capabilities and I will describe the work we have done there over the last quarter. And we continue to have opportunities in the business that will rebound as the economy continues to move forward in the investment management and capital markets areas, and we had solid quarters there.

Again this quarter, we continue to have to simplify the franchise. This quarter we made progress, we sold a European small business card portfolio. We have Balboa under contract, that will close late this quarter early next. In addition, we continue to reduce our private equity positions across the board and we continue to sell some other small pieces to continue to fine-tune this franchise.

When we get to the broader economy this quarter what we saw is that the customers' health continues to move forward. Delinquencies were down across all portfolios.

Consumer spending continued to increase this quarter over last -- in 2011 over 2010. In March it increased 7%, to give you an example. About 1.5% of that would have been gas price increases; the rest is sort of fundamental customer purchases moving forward.

We see loan demand in select areas and loan stability across the board, absent the run-off book. Our affluent clients continue to take more risk in the market and we have seen growth in the area there, and the capital markets remain robust.

So with that let's drop to page five and get into some of the specific results for the quarter. On slide 5 you can see we can start with the capital ratios.

We told you at the conference our share return model requires us to focus on building our balance sheet with a strong reserve position, driving optimization of our risk-weighted asset position and building capital through 2011/2012 as we move from Basel I to Basel II to Basel [II.5] to Basel III. This quarter reflected the continued progress. The tangible common equity ratio increased to 6.1% above the level we believe of the risk inherent to run the Company.

The focus that we also shared with you is driving tangible book value per share. We moved that to $13.21 this quarter, as you can see in the upper right-hand corner of the slide.

Our regulatory capital ratios continue to improve. We had a fairly sizable change in the DTA allowance period for regulatory capital treatment that caused the 27 basis points decline before we got the quarter started. But even with that we still made progress.

The Tier 1 common ratio was up 4 basis points, or 31 basis points not taking into account the adjustment, and the Tier 1 was up 8 basis points gross.

On the lower right you can see we make progress by continuing to reduce RWA. And as we have talked to you, we have significant mitigation coming later in the year in Basel calculations after planned implementation of technology, risk models, and other risk management opportunities we have been working on for the last couple years. All this is critical in our ability to meet the Tier 1 Basel III common ratio goal of 8% at year-end 2012 as if Basel III was fully implemented and the move forward on capital management later this year and next year.

Now let me go to page 6 and then just to step back and think about the progress first quarter of 2010 versus 2011 in the core balance sheet of this company. As you can see on this page, overall assets down 3%, our RWA is down 6%, our deposits are up 4% or $44 billion, our long-term debt has been reduced $77 billion, which is significant and has a significant benefit in our margin.

Importantly, you can see our tangible common shareholders' equity is up $16 billion, our Tier 1 common equity is up $8 billion, and you can see the rest of the statistics on this page. So in a year's time frame we have been able to significantly lower the risk, increase the capital, and increase the statistics on reserve coverage while at the same time managing the customer franchise.

As we move to the businesses, I just wanted to reflect quickly on those and then I will let Chuck take you through the detail and the numbers. On slide 7 you can see the overall picture and it's a pretty simple picture. You can see all the businesses have moved back to profitability except our mortgage business and we will talk in some detail about that later on.

As you go on each of the businesses, let's first take our deposit businesses starting on page 8. The deposits team produced earnings this quarter of $355 million and that was versus a loss in the fourth quarter. They had higher revenue and lower litigation expense compared to the fourth quarter.

Remember that in this business the fourth quarter was kind of the low point because the regulatory items affecting the deposits business by the Reg E and overdraft are fully in this business. Our Durbin charges would go into our card segment and -- later this year if it becomes effective.

The return on tangible equity for our deposits business this quarter was 25%, which is above the rate -- our hurdle rates obviously, but we expect to go higher as the business continues to recover. Average deposit balances were up $5 billion or 4% annualized. The cost of retail deposits, both in this business and our wealth management business combined, were down 4 basis points to 33 basis points.

Importantly, new accounts reflect a continuing focus on quality relationships and retention. As a matter of fact, we are seeing the lowest attrition in accounts we have seen in three years or more. In this quarter we saw the first net account growth, based on the change in strategy that Joe Price and his team are accomplishing, in five quarters. Account closures are down and our customer focus continues to work.

Early results in our pilots to reposition our franchise based on all the regulatory changes and the customer-driven analysis are still in early raw but are exceeding our expectations. In adding a preferred customer solutions group, or Platinum Privileges offering as we call it, has worked well.

On the expense side, the team is working. Branches are down 200 over the last five quarters, our cost of deposits ratio that we showed you at our -- in early March went down from 264 basis points, that is all the cost of operating the franchise over the deposits, to 260 which shows continued growth. Our active online accounts exceeded 30 million, a record for this company. Our mobile users are up 55% first quarter of 2010 to first quarter of 2011 to 6.8 million mobile users.

As we switch to card services that business earned $1.7 billion in the quarter on improved credit quality. Its revenue is down as the portfolio keeps repositioning as we continue to run down the books of the loans we don't want in that business and the lower yields due to seasonal decline in retail volume. The unit did benefit by reserve release, but the earnings are normalizing and we will see that happen over the next few quarters.

The retail volumes are down from the fourth quarter, but as I said earlier customer usage of cards has gone up year over year by in the 5%, 6% 7% range depending on the month. Our net loss rates broke another level here as we fell below 8% for the first time in a while and from the peak of nearly 14% on card losses in the US credit card book.

New accounts in our US credit card book were up 26% in the fourth quarter, the highest level in six quarters, and credit quality of this new origination is very strong. So as you think about our core consumer businesses, we have returned to profit in deposits and we expect to keep driving that forward and our card business continues to improve. And both have upside as the interest rate environment and economy continues to stabilize.

When we move to the next page, slide 9, and our wealth management businesses, the global wealth management team turned in $531 million after-tax, up 69% from solid fourth-quarter results driven by an 8% increase in revenue and lower provision for credit costs. Our pretax margin in this business showing the value of the integrated model across all the various products was up -- is reaching nearly 19% and the return on economic equity was 30%.

The growth in margin, as I said, is reflective of the loan and deposits growth, which grew 5% in the quarter. It demonstrates that customers want to integrate their finances with us and that loan deposit growth led to NII growing 10% from the fourth quarter of 2010.

Now many times people ask us if that money is just money sitting on the sidelines, but during this quarter we have also seen the activity related to the investment side of the house grow nicely. Client balances grew 2% and that is on a $2 trillion base, to give you a sense, so it's $45 billion in growth from clients and new product flows of about $14 billion in long-term assets under management were all good performance by this unit.

The growth in financial advisers continue to be steady, 184 new financial advisers were added. We continue to have record low attrition in our advisor force. And referrals by this unit, which is sort of a lynch pin to our referral strategy, continue to be strong and remain healthy with the other businesses.

On slide 9 we move to one of the -- at the bottom of slide 9 we talk about one of the core businesses that we have which is middle-market small-business lending which turned in another quarter of $923 million of earnings. They were down slightly as they went from a release of provision to actually having provision this quarter.

The return on tangible equity for this business is 18% for this quarter. Average C&I balances were up 2% and that is concentrated in the middle-market space and offsets declines in the commercial real estate business and dealer financial services business in this. Average deposits also grew 2%.

The asset quality of the business was very strong through the cycle and continues to improve. One of the things that you often ask that we saw here which is we saw revolver utilization of our companies move from 32% in the fourth quarter to 35%, which shows that companies are using credit ever so slightly. Remember that normalized for that level that is probably in the mid-40%s so we have got work to go ahead of us there still.

If we move to slide 10, moving to our large corporate and capital markets and settlement trading team and global banking and markets, they earn $2.1 billion (sic - see Presentation Slides) for the fourth quarter. Returns on tangible capital business were 28%. The revenue was up 44% from the fourth quarter driven by increases in sales and trading, a robust quarter investment banking, and steady corporate banking revenue driven by treasury management growth of about 5%. Corporate loans were up $3 billion for the quarter, about 12% annualized, driven by growth in our international lending business.

Now one of the interesting things here is our international market share in some of our business is now stronger than our US market share, which shows the effort the team has made to grow across the world with its global clients. In equity capital markets and advisory we actually had higher shares outside the US this quarter than we did inside the US, which shows good progress on our international strategy.

And now we move to the business that we continue to have to do a lot of work on and that is our consumer real estate services business. As you know, we split this business in two parts to focus the executives in the business to concentrate on two pieces. Barbara Desoer and her team to concentrate on the front-end business and Terry Laughlin and the team to concentrate on the legacy asset business and running down.

In the business -- the legacy asset business obviously had a significant loss and the go-forward business had a slight profit. And Chuck will talk you through that later.

Our production levels in mortgage banking fell to $56 billion but we maintained our market share. To deal with the falloff we have announced today and have been reducing headcount by approximately 3,500 people. About 2,000 of those contractors in that business and about 1,500 are teammates. This is all on the goods side of the house and Barbara's side of the business.

In a legacy side we continue to deploy resources to get through the backlogs, the modifications, and foreclosures. During the quarter we modified 64,000 loans bringing us to over 840,000 loans modified in the last few years. On our legacy side, as you saw in our press release, we settled the exposure to one of the major monoline insurers and Chuck will cover that later.

Again, after the review the regulators conducted late last fall and our self-assessment, we have made significant progress implementing the changes to the solution on short sales, deeds in lieu, and foreclosures, and we will completed about 70,000 of those in this quarter. The cost of delay in foreclosures and assessments related to that is reflected in the P&L this quarter as is increased servicing costs and our MSR valuation.

As we move to the subject of cost, which is something we have focused on, you can see on slide 12 that you can see that we have laid out for you sort of the fourth quarter and the first quarter in terms of the overall cost. There is about $20 billion in reported costs but on a core basis we had about a $500 million increase from quarter to quarter. We know that we need to do more on costs and we will continue to work on those.

If you look at the base run rate, it's approximately $17 billion and this is a run rate we have been facing consistent with what Chuck told you at the investor day about a $70 billion number. So we have been managing costs to try to run it flat as the incremental one-time costs continue to hit us on a given quarter.

But the way we are managing that has been managing headcount. Overall headcount grew on a point-to-point basis from December 31 to March 31 about 0.3%. That is 0.3% or 2,700 people across our 285,000 -- 288,000 people with the mortgage business on the legacy side adding 2,700 people and the rest of the company going down by 2,000. That 2,000 reduction is even with the investments we are making in small-business bankers and international capabilities at financial advisers and many other areas.

Our efficiency ratio is at 75%. It's down from 92% in the fourth quarter but that is not the progress we would like to see. We expect that to continue to recover as the legacy assets and some of the charges go down in the high 50s, low 60s, which is where we were earlier in 2010, but we need to do more to show we can hold expenses flat or reduce them as revenue rises to deliver the returns in this business and the Company we need to do. To do that, as we told you at investor day, we continue to finish off at all the integrations and that will give us the time, the so-called piece dividend, and the effort to continue to drive this company forward.

We told you we could get back to the 55% efficiency ratio. We have launched an effort this week using outside teammates who have worked at other companies and a significant amount of internal team called New BAC which will continue to work to take all the work in this company, examine it, and see the work that doesn't add value to our customers or our teammates and move it out of this company.

We will work on this effort for the next several months. It takes two phases and leads us all the way into 2012. The first phase completes late this fall and we will continue to implement it immediately thereafter to get the expense savings and keep the run rate down as the revenue and the economy recovers.

With that general overview, let me turn it over to Chuck to take you through in detail the quarter. Chuck?

CHUCK NOSKI, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian. I appreciate your kind words and am looking forward to continuing to work with you and the senior management team in my new role as Vice Chairman. I think Bruce will do a great job as the Chief Financial Officer and also Gary Lynch, who will be joining us later in the year, will be a terrific addition to Bank of America. As some of you may know, I worked with Gary during the five years I served on the Board of Directors at Morgan Stanley and I found him to be a first-rate executive.

With that let's turn to the slides and begin on slide 13. For the quarter, as Brian said, we reported $2 billion of net income or $0.17 a share after preferred dividends. There were several significant items during the quarter which are detailed on slide 14.

Representations and warranties provision in the first half (sic - see Press Release) was $1 billion, of which slightly more than half was associated with the GSEs and the remainder was related primarily to recent experience with a monoline. The provision related to the GSEs was driven by higher estimated repurchase rates along with the further deterioration in the Home Pricing Index, what we call HPI, in the quarter.

If you recall, when we announced our agreement with the GSEs earlier this year and adjusted the liability for future losses I noted that there could be further refinements from a number of factors. A major factor in our estimate of the liability for future losses is the performance of HPI, which declined this quarter and impacted the severity of losses in our reps and warranties liability. The credit mark unstructured liabilities under the fair value option resulted in a negative adjustment of $586 million, reflecting a tightening of our credit spreads compared to a negative adjustment of $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter and is reported in other income.

Equity investment gains during the quarter included a $1.1 billion gain from an investment in connection with the related IPO in the first quarter and reflected both the sale of shares as well as the fair value mark on the remaining shares we still hold. We have $546 million in gains on the sale of securities during the quarter. Trading-related income included a negative DVA impact of $357 million due to wider debt spreads.

Excluding fees paid to external legal service providers, litigation expense this quarter was $940 million, principally associated with mortgage-related matters. During the quarter there were various mortgage assessments and waivers accrued for several areas of exposure driven by the foreclosure delays which totaled $874 million, including $548 million for compensatory fees that we expect to be assessed by the GSEs as well as costs incurred during the foreclosure process that we do not expect to recover.

Also included in the first quarter, as Brian mentioned, was approximately $1 billion of expense related to retirement-eligible stock-based compensation awards, so-called FAS 123(R), that we have every year at this time. And merger-related and restructuring charges were $202 million.

Credit loss reserves were reduced by $2.2 billion in the quarter versus $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter. The current period reserve number included $1.6 billion of reserve increases related to the purchase credit impaired portfolio.

One item not on the slide but which I want to highlight for you is our effective tax rate that this quarter was 26.3%. At this time we would expect the rate for the rest of the year to be around 30%, plus or minus unusual items like a charge for the UK rate reductions expected later this year or more valuation allowance release benefits like we have seen during the last couple of years.

You may recall that we wrote down a portion of our deferred tax asset last year in the third quarter due to the 1% UK tax rate reduction resulting in a charge after-tax of nearly $400 million. It looks like the UK is considering two more 1% tax rate reductions which could impact the third quarter of this year, so we are expecting a charged income tax expense of nearly $800 million upon enactment of those rate changes. Because we would just be reducing deferred tax assets that are disallowed at the margin, the $800 million charge would not affect our regulatory capital levels.

On slide 15 you can see that average loans were down $1.6 billion from the fourth quarter while average deposits increased more than $15 billion. Deposits remains a good story of growth as consumer balance wealth management clients continue to do more business with us and commercial customers continue to prefer to hold rather than invest cash. In line with our comments over the past few months, ending long-term debt dropped $14 billion and we expect that decline to continue.

As you can see on slide 16, loans at the end of the quarter, excluding net charge-offs and run-off activity, were up $2.9 billion. Consumer loans were relatively flat. Commercial loans, ex-real estate, were up $3.5 billion or 1.4% driven primarily by growth in Asia and EMEA and commercial real estate loans declined $2 billion or 4.1% as reductions in high-risk assets continue to offset new originations.

Let's turn to net interest income on slide 17. Net interest income on an FTE basis was $12.4 billion, down $312 million from the fourth quarter. The impact of lower hedge income, lower consumer loan balances and yields, and fewer days in the quarter were offset partially by a reduction in long-term debt and other items. Our average earning assets for the quarter were down $14 billion, mainly due to reduced customer financing activity in the repo area.

Average consumer loans were down as additional run-off in the card and home equity portfolios more than offset retained mortgage originations. Average commercial loans were relatively flat as decreases in real estate and US commercial were partially offset by increases in both core loan and trade finance activity in our non-US corporate banking business, reflecting our growing international footprint. As we have said for the past few quarters, we expect net interest income to be down again in the second quarter but anticipate stabilization in the second half of the year.

We are also on track to lower our long-term debt footprint by 15% to 20% by the end of 2011 relative to third-quarter 2010 levels.

Turning to slide 18, card revenue was down almost $300 million from the fourth-quarter results due mainly to the seasonal decline in interchange. Decreases in retail spending were 6% versus the prior quarter, but versus the prior year reflected an increase of 6%. Card revenue was down 7% from a year ago due to the impact of the CARD Act as the provisions became effective throughout 2010.

On slide 19 we show service charges were flat with the fourth quarter but down 21% from year ago due to overdraft policy changes, which as you know were fully embedded in our results as of the fourth quarter of last year.

Let me say a couple things that you should note before we move away from retail banking driven revenue. Consumer spending is up, account closures are down, quality sales remain strong, deposits grew, and employment levels are higher, which all point to improving performance in our retail businesses in future periods.

Mortgage banking income on slide 20 improved by $2 billion from the fourth quarter as lower reps and warranties provision was partially offset by lower production volumes and margin as well as less favorable net MSR hedge results. Production volume in first mortgage of $57 billion was down 33% in line with the drop in the overall market size from the fourth quarter while locked volumes were down 45%. MSR performance net of hedges was negligible this quarter versus a positive $257 million last quarter.

The capitalization rate for the consumer mortgage MSR asset ended the quarter at 95 basis points versus 92 basis points in the fourth quarter. Given the level of interest rates and our lower locked pipeline, we forecast production levels will be lower over the near term.

Turning to slide 21, you can see the total reps and warranties provision in the quarter was $1 billion, down from $4.1 billion from the prior quarter. Much of the decrease was due to the impact of our agreements with the GSEs in the fourth quarter. The $1 billion provision in the first quarter dealt principally with the GSEs and recent experience with the monoline.

On that note, as Brian made reference to this morning, we announced an agreement with Assured Guaranty to resolve all of the monoline's outstanding and potential repurchase claims related to alleged reps and warranties breaches involving certain first and second lien residential mortgage-backed secure trusts or assured provided financial guaranty insurance. The agreement covers combined original collateral exposure of approximately $35.8 billion with a combined principal at risk of approximately $10.9 billion.

The agreement includes a cash payment of approximately $1.1 billion to Assured as well as a loss sharing reinsurance arrangement that has a current estimated fair market value of approximately $500 million. Approximately $1.1 billion of that was reserved for these potential repurchase claims at the end of December with the remaining liability recognized in the first quarter.

This settlement gets behind us a sizable piece of home equity exposure along with some first lien exposure. We currently estimate the upper end of the possible loss range related to non-GSEs to remain at around $7 billion to $10 billion over existing accruals. Any reduction in our previously disclosed estimated range resulting from reserve accruals in this quarter were largely offset by the impact of HPI deterioration during the first quarter.

As a reminder, this estimated range does not represent our estimate of a probable loss and is based on current assumptions that are necessarily subject to change. The liability for reps and warranties ended the quarter at $6.2 billion compared to $5.4 billion in the prior quarter.

Our unresolved repurchase requests increased $2.9 billion to $13.6 billion due to an increase in submissions from the GSEs on both remaining Countrywide originations not covered by the agreements we announced in January and legacy Bank of America originations. Part of the increase was the result of lower submissions in the fourth quarter as we finalized the GSE agreements.

On slide 22 we have outlined in more detail the organizational changes we announced in the last quarter for our former home loans and insurance business. And on slide 23 we have split out for you what we now call consumer real estate services into three pieces to provide a way to better understand the financial results and track our progress in those activities.

Home loans and insurance, as you can see, made $130 million this quarter and includes loan production activities, our servicing of current loans, insurance operations, and consumer real estate services home equity portfolio not included in the legacy asset servicing portfolio. Insurance earnings drove the results, given the low levels of customer mortgage application activity in the quarter and the costs we incurred to fulfill the outstanding pipeline left over from the fourth quarter's low rate environment.

Legacy asset servicing lost $2.5 billion and is responsible for servicing delinquent loans and managing the run-off and exposures related to selected residential mortgage, home equity, and discontinued product loan portfolios. The LAS results represent the net cost of legacy exposures, including reps and warranties provision, litigation costs, financial results of the home equity loan portfolios allocated to Legacy Asset Servicing, and financial results of the Legacy Asset Servicing portfolio service for others. The LAS portfolios include both current and delinquent loans that met standards defined for inclusion in Legacy Asset Servicing.

The Other column is essentially the results of management of the MSR and includes the change in the value of MSRs net of hedges. We will continue to refine how we present this information going forward.

Okay, now back to earnings on slide 24. Our activity with wealth management clients is producing revenue that achieved post-merger highs which is where we generate the bulk of investment and brokerage revenues. Investment in brokerage revenue was up $222 million, or 8% from the fourth quarter, due to high market levels, long-term assets under management, and higher transactional activity.

Asset managed fees were a record $1.5 billion, up 6% from the fourth quarter and brokerage fees were also a record, approximately $1.6 billion, up 9% from the fourth quarter. Total client balances, including Merill Edge, grew $47 billion to $2.3 trillion during the quarter as a result of market activity and strong flows into long-term asset management products.

Sales and trading revenue on slide 25 of $4.9 billion, which includes both net interest income and non-interest income, increased approximately 93% from the fourth quarter but was down around 30% from last year's record quarterly results. FICC results more than doubled from the fourth quarter led by credit products and rates and currencies. Equity revenue was up 60% to $1.2 billion from the fourth quarter, driven by increases in all major lines of businesses.

An improved trading environment and client activity helped the equity derivatives businesses, while increases in both the S&P and Dow had a positive impact on the cash equity business. Average VAR in the period increased 17% from the fourth quarter to $184 million versus a drop of 33% from a year ago.

Investment banking results on slide 26 were relatively flat with the fourth quarter, but compared to a year ago revenue increased 27%. Our overall fee ranking remained at number two globally. The results versus a year ago were driven by increases across all major product categories, particularly M&A and equities. We were involved in numerous high-profile transactions during the quarter, several of which were outside the US.

Turning to expense levels on slide 27. Total expenses, excluding the goodwill impairment charge last quarter, increased $1.4 billion from the fourth quarter. As I discussed earlier, $874 million of the increase was due to several areas of exposure driven by the foreclosure delays.

Personal expense compared to the fourth quarter was up approximately $1.4 billion, reflecting again the impact of retirement eligible stock-based comp awards along with higher performance-based incentives and GBAM related to stronger results. Higher levels of headcount and expense in consumer real estate services were related to default management staff and other loss mitigation activities in that business. As we mentioned earlier, litigation costs of $940 million in the quarter dropped from $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter.

As we told you last month at our investor conference, we expect our expense levels for 2011 to remain elevated as we work through these issues and continue to invest in the franchise. Highlighting what Brian said earlier, we have launched a comprehensive initiative focused on improving our financial performance by reducing expense levels and producing higher revenue.

Moving to asset quality trends on slide 28. As they did through most of last year, delinquencies, excluding government-insured FHA loans, net charge-offs, criticized balances, and non-performing assets, continued to improve.

On slide 29, improving credit performance in most of our portfolios drove the decrease in net charge-offs. Net charge-offs of $6 billion decreased $755 million compared to the fourth quarter. Consumer net charge-offs were down $509 million reflecting improvement in most products and commercial asset quality also improved as net charge-offs dropped $246 million, or 26%, from the prior quarter with the biggest drivers being US C&I, including a legal settlement recovery, and commercial real estate.

The increase in net charge-offs in non-US commercial was due to a couple of large legacy credits. And even with the decline in reserve levels, the ratio of allowance for loan losses to annualized net charge-offs was essentially flat compared to the fourth quarter at roughly 1.6 times.

In thinking about credit costs for the rest of 2011, we think provision expense should continue to edge down through the year as charge-offs continue to move lower, primarily in the consumer businesses. We expect loan-loss reserve reductions will continue as long as portfolio performance and the economy continue to improve and our other credit metrics warrant lower reserves.

Moving to slide 30, our purchase credit-impaired consumer loan book, which is comprised of discontinued real estate, residential mortgages, and home equity, was $28 billion including the allowance. We increased the reserve by $1.6 billion to reflect a more negative outlook for home prices.

Turning to slide 31; let me add before closing that we recognize that there are a number of items in the quarter that make your analysis a bit time-consuming. From our view the positive underlying trends are improvements in credit, capital, deposits, and progress on redesigning our franchise to best serve our customer base.

We believe the interest rate environment will remain challenging and don't expect the mortgage picture to improve significantly for several quarters. However, as you heard at our investor conference, we have articulated our strategy and we are executing against it. So with that let's now open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Glenn Schorr, Nomura.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thanks very much. Maybe if we could just take a minute to expand a little bit, you have just mentioned and you have it in slide 27 that the program to increase revenues and take out costs to drive profitability. And I think later on you said something about material benefits in the second half of 2012 on the expense side.

Could we talk maybe a little bit about the largest contributors or the largest buckets that will see that expense savings over the two years?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you think about it -- think about two different things going on, Glenn. First, the largest improvement you are going to see over the next 24 months will be as we crest over the -- go over the crest on the mortgage servicing side for the delinquent assets and start to take those costs out, and likewise other places in the Company those similar costs exist.

So that -- if you remember what we showed you I think we had 70,000 human beings dedicated in the mortgage business including the contractors, 50,000 full-time employees. We have gone from about 5,000 to 8,000 people who will service six days in out loans to a total of 30,000 over the last several quarters. And again 2,500, 2,600 again this quarter -- 2,700 this quarter.

So one of the things you will see as we continue to get through the bubble of foreclosures, as delinquencies come down you really have a body of work to get through. We had to stop the foreclosures; we restarted them. As we get through that that will come down over the next several quarters.

What we are talking about -- we knew we were going to get that and so that we have identified, that is why we isolated it, and we will get that out. What we also need to do is just to continue to look. We sold 19 or 20 different pieces of the Company off. We have built up a lot of stuff for businesses that no longer are here. We have built processes and stuff when the Company was a different company.

We brought in a lot of new enterprises. Our Six Sigma capabilities that we have put in because we have brought in over 100,000 different associates that are just -- who are new to all that. We said we had to step back and take a look at every aspect of work in the Company. Work that doesn't benefit the customers or associates has to go out, has to be taken out.

That process is a process many companies use and I have used earlier in my career, but the process is in two phases. The first phase finishes late this fall, the second phase finishes early in the spring, and so we will begin implementing as soon as we have ideas. That will take a little longer as we go through.

That is not stopping us from also doing things like in the branch team that I talked about. We are down 200 branches, down 50 this quarter. Round numbers, the cost of deposits ratio that we showed you at investor day dropped to 260 basis points, which we think leads the industry by a lot. That concludes the FDIC expense, the whole nine yards in there.

So as you think about it, we are continuing on the core aspects we do on cost. The other benefits will come through a little slower as the bad assets get better and the work gets done in the program.

GLENN SCHORR: So very much appreciate that, Brian. On the mortgage servicing side it's a whole lot of people and I think we get that, but in general I think we saw by -- through JPMorgan's results, and I am expecting through others, in general the cost of servicing mortgages is still going to the moon on a run rate basis. Is that thought process included in your cost saves in the second half of 2012 and does that have anything to do with the MSR, the way you mark the MSR?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, in the valuation of the MSR over the last couple quarters has been a charge to increase servicing costs which decreases their cash flow, Glenn, and that is embedded in that valuation. We are carrying 92 basis points or so, which is a conservative value we believe. But embedded in that, in the performance in the last couple of quarters has been roughly $0.5 billion each quarter -- or $450 million or so each quarter for that.

So in that we have to price through to the street, for the lack of a better term, because the increased amount of work you have to do to service the mortgage loan. Ultimately, we have to get paid.

GLENN SCHORR: I appreciate that. All right, last one. On reps and warranties, I think following the partial settlement of the GSEs I and others might have thought with $5 billion-plus in reserves we might see a leveling off on the provision.

But another $1 billion with over half going to the GSEs, I am assuming that that is for the Fannie stuff that wasn't settled. And just curious on how you think about that as an annoying run rate that is with us for a few more quarters or you feel like what percent of the pipe are you through now on the GSEs?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Chuck?

CHUCK NOSKI: Sure. Glenn, there is a couple dynamics going on here. We saw a slowdown in new repurchase requests from the GSEs in the fourth quarter, as you might imagine, as they were going through the settlement process, so there has a been a backlog that has built up by them in the fourth quarter that I think we saw hit us in the first quarter.

They also seem to be devoting more time to submitting claims and less time to resolving claims, which has tended to create a bit of an elevated level at the end of the first quarter. So there is a bit of that going on.

A substantial portion, though, of that -- of the provision associated with the GSEs related to HPI deterioration, which was kind of funny. Most of that -- I should say most of the submissions we have been referring to were Fannie rather than Freddy.

In terms of where we are on the overall pipeline, we said last quarter we were in 70% to 75% I would say in terms of being all the way through with respect to GSEs. My guess is we are probably at the high end of that range now.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. As we look at the mortgage-related hits in the first quarter, are there any estimates of what the impact will be from Wednesday's regulatory enforcement actions that were announced in terms of whether there is value in the MSR or just higher foreclosure costs?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Think about that order as being announced on Wednesday but actually the work took place in October, November, December -- the assessments in the supervisory work. So we have implemented and that is why we have been adding people.

So the single point of contact, the requirements on the signing of affidavits in the foreclosure process, that has been embedded in our run rate as we have been building up. And so that did impact, in both the fourth quarter and the first quarter, the valuation of the MSR because we already were getting ahead of this. There is things that we identified in the work that we did in self-assessment and the regulators identified other improvements, so the run rate aspect of that will have some elements to it but a lot of it is in the system as we speak today.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. So outside of potential penalties for you and all the other banks, as part of this, you don't expect material costs related to the enforcement actions?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The outside significant penalties is the question. And then remember, this is the bank regulatory environment and we will have to make an assessment as we get to the other people, if we get there, what other servicing requirements they may put on. But the core of what the bank regulatory requirements do, the look back and the other things, are fairly consistent in our dialogues.

But we will see in terms of the run rate cost based on that, but from a standpoint of the bank regulators the piece left open is a C&P question.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then separately but still staying on the mortgage topic here, as we think about the sensitivity of some of these mortgage hits outside of credit to HPI declines, how much sensitivity is there? For example, if HPI is 5% worse than expected, what do you think that would mean to the mortgage put back hits and the litigation hits and some of the other moving pieces?

NEIL COTTY, CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Yes, HPI is going to impact us in several areas, one of them being PCI, purchase credit impaired. It will impact us in terms of reps and warranties and then it also impacts us on the credit side with our residential mortgages that are 180 days past due.

You know, it really is difficult to do it on the purchase credit impaired because, as you know, it's a fair value of a life of loan and it not only requires what is going to happen to HPI this year but also assumptions about how long a recovery takes. But if you did a shock this year of roughly 4% over all those portfolios I just mentioned, it would be probably about $1.5 billion.

But, again, it assumes on the purchase credit impaired that you got the shock of 4% this year with a gradual increase in home prices over several years but again not returning to 4% increase in home prices until well into the second half of the decade.

MATT O'CONNOR: And then what about for the other buckets, like the mortgage repurchases and litigation, how much sensitivity is there to those two areas?

NEIL COTTY: That was in there as well.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, okay. And then just separately last thing. As we look at the net interest margin for the second quarter, I think the guidance in March had been you would bottom out around 2.5%. Obviously 1Q came in a lot better than that.

Just wondering what the outlook is on the NIM percent and the net interest income dollars for 2Q.

CHUCK NOSKI: Matt, we think it's -- we obviously think that the second quarter will be down, not clear that we are going to go down another 17 basis points to 250. We did have, frankly, better performance in the first quarter than we expected.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, thanks a lot. A couple of follow-ups on the Assured. Wanted to understand how much of the Assured relationship that you have has been settled at this point. I mean you mentioned first and second liens were in this discussion, but it looked to me like maybe only you settled on the 21 deals that were the first liens.

CHUCK NOSKI: We have basically resolved virtually all of the controversies between our various companies and Assured, and that is contemplated in this settlement. Probably the only thing that is not contemplated would be those instances in which Bank of America or Countrywide or one of its affiliates might have sold a loan to another institution that then securitized that in a package of mortgages and then sold them to or then had them wrapped by Assured.

So the way that transaction would occur Assured would actually go to that third party and assert a potential reps and warranty claim, and then that third party in turn can come back to us.

That aggregate exposure in terms of mortgages is about $1.5 billion. That was not addressed in this nor have we really had much, if anything, in the way of claims asserted in that regard. But beyond that we and Assured are basically done.

BETSY GRASECK: So do I interpret, therefore, that in your settlement there is very little exposure or there is very little claims that you are making good on with regard to the seconds?

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes, with respect to the seconds, we are done. We had provided almost $1.1 billion as of the end of December relating to second lien exposure and we settled at basically what we had reserved for.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then as we look towards the remaining claims that are outstanding, you indicated $7 billion to $10 billion is still your figure so on a total basis, if we look at 4Q plus 1Q, the exposure would be higher by about $1.6 billion, is that right?

CHUCK NOSKI: No, I think the way to think about that, Betsy, is that we have reassessed what the overall exposure is to the non-GSEs. You would expect with a settlement and with additional accruals that that $7 billion to $10 billion would go down. That has largely been offset by HPI deterioration.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then lastly, the Assured press release had a discussion about max loss cap dollar amount and your dollar amount and theirs are very different. Is that because of the probability of getting to that max loss, in your opinion, is low?

CHUCK NOSKI: No, I think -- well, they may have a different view. I think theirs is around -- I saw an earlier draft of it, I didn't see the final one. My recollection is they are around the -- that they are thinking about draws; we are looking at the underlying reps and warranty exposure.

BETSY GRASECK: Got it. Okay, great. Super, thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. You know going back to the AGO settlement, there is another big settlement out there with some other monolines. Where you are -- and they are probably larger than probably the AGO. Can you address that a little bit?

CHUCK NOSKI: Paul, I am not sure what you are asking.

PAUL MILLER: My guess is the MBI -- isn't there another monoline suing your guys for like $20 billion or something? MBIA?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: There are -- if you think about all the monolines, there is six companies we have basically -- we settled with two, we have worked with the other ones. MBIA is the last one and that is a very complex relationship between us because of the -- across our company because of the -- there is elements in our sales and trading business. It's out there and we will continue to work on it.

CHUCK NOSKI: And I would note, Paul, that Assured, FSA Assured, was really the only one of the monolines not suing us.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. And then real quick, you mentioned I think in the presentation or in your -- that you have started your foreclosures in non-judicial states. Where are you with the judicial states like Florida? Have you started foreclosure processes in that state or [when] do you think you can start?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have started foreclosure processes across the board.

PAUL MILLER: Across the board?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes.

PAUL MILLER: Thank you very much, gentleman.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Remember the difference between judicial and nonjudicial is you got to wait for the judicial process to take place in the judicial states. In nonjudicial states it goes more quickly.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. So you are up and running across the board. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. Two questions. The first is you had good reduction in the loss rate on the credit card business but I think what is interesting is the industry as a whole is kind of moving faster into lower levels. Can you talk a little bit about kind of what you think the pattern is going to be there over the course of the next several quarters?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: On the credit card specifically, Moshe?

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Yes, credit card specifically.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: From a high-level, I will have the team address the specifics, but from a high-level remember that we were higher than they were and so we are coming down at a good rate. It's just it's a lot -- I think we got 200 basis points maybe or even more above our peers. We got up to a 14% charge-off rate. So, yes, we have more upside as this keeps coming down.

The underwriting we did starting -- changing in 2008 has outperformed in a not-as-good economic scenario three years later. And if you look at our emergence curves and stuff we are getting strong performance in the latter part of 2008, clearly 2009 and 2010. So I think we have more room to go than prove, frankly, largely because we had a deeper hole, frankly.

And I will let Neil or Chuck fill in the exact reasons, but in a broad spirit it is that we were dealing with this issue that we just had a higher number to start from.

NEIL COTTY: You know I think Brian summed it up best, ours went bad first and we tightened the buy box. And also came down very fast. Our early-stage delinquencies during the quarter continued to improve nicely.

We will see continued improvement going forward, but it will be at a slower pace. But if you look back over the past four or five quarters our improvement has been dramatic.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So if you think about it in broad context we are sort of high 7s now and we should look to that -- we have underwritten to hit a target of 5, 5.5 and, frankly, the performance of the portfolio we [have been putting on] in time periods I talked about has outperformed that. So this should be a continuous move, $13 billion in a single quarter at one point, so we have still got some room to improve but it has come down dramatically.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Yes. Kind of on a separate issue, you talked a little bit about the capital generation and the deferred tax asset disallowance in the quarter, kind of keeping that lower than normal. But even absent that it feels like, given the level of earnings, we would really like to see that pace pick up if you are really going to get to that 8% level in something less than two years.

So could you talk a little bit about what plans you have over and above what kind of the run rate of earnings? Because it seems like there would need to be somewhat more. And related to that any thoughts you might have on the SIFI buffers that might be assessed on you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you look at the balance sheet that we showed you from last year first quarter there is three or four (inaudible) coming down, but you have to remember -- if you think about our company, the issues that we had to face is our Basel II implementation is still in process. We had to get this to all work right and that is one of the reasons why we have been pushing our expectation out of when this will all be ready to go till later this year or the next year was that we need to get some work done.

Part of that work is to continue to optimize the RWA calculation and the risk models and other things that will bring down RWA dramatically in our trading areas. And that requires the systems work that has been going in and will continue to go during the course of this year; got a team working on that.

That is a major piece of the equation and then there is a lot of other pieces of the equation. If you look at all the legacy assets sold and the private equity business being brought down and so we are just continuing to do that each quarter. So we have a roadmap and it requires us to keep executing very well.

Then the earnings generation -- remember what is affecting the earnings is actually reductions in risk of a significant amount in terms of repurchase or even 0303 portfolios and things like that. So you got to think of this a little bit, Moshe, in terms of timing. Stuff we are pulling forward and taking now would have been stuff that we had taken over time, and so that helps us out.

But it really comes down to a lot of this is around the optimization of the balance sheet. If you think about us, we run about 65% of RWA to assets today. Our US peers that are on Basel II and been optimizing on the risk models and stuff are in the 50%s and are outside the United States peers that have been on it for a long time are in the 30%s.

And so there is a lot of work for us to do and that work is going on this year. That is one of the bridges we have to have completed as we look to do the capital management we would like to do for you as shareholders.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Just on the SIFI, any thoughts as to how and when we are going to hear about that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: One ought to be over the course of the summer here. We have -- obviously by using the 8% target we have sort of said it's going to be something I think -- fundamentally I think I would go back to what we told you late last fall, those of you that saw it at our conference where I talked about this, we will store that capital on the balance sheet. So with if it's 100 basis points that is $18 billion or $1.80 a share. If it's higher than that just you can do the math.

We will store that balance -- that capital on the balance sheet. It will be embedded in [tangible] book value. You can't put it to work, because if you do then you have to need more. So if it's a higher number we will have to store more capital, but we will let that play out.

I think in terms of the broad policy I think we have got enough risk-based capital to run this company and even more than we need. And I think we will continue to work on our discussions in the broadly broader policymakers about what the, quote, right answer is. But, in fact, we have sort of accounted for 100 basis points. If it's higher than that we will be storing the capital.

But it's all yours. That is what we have been trying to make clear to you. It's not going anywhere, it's not doing anything, it's not making acquisitions, it's not being put in the business. It's all there.

The good thing is that even if it's a higher number what we haven't talked you a lot about is from -- we are trying to hit that 8% -- our math gets us there at the end of next year but -- and that is if Basel III was fully implemented. If you think about a higher SIFI level, you really have 5, 6, 7 years to put it in.

But, importantly, what is not apparent to a lot of people is that the amount of optimization we actually have in latter years is still high because there are certain structured credit trades or certain -- the run-off portfolio still stands about half its balance after a couple years. That will provide additional positive momentum, none of which is core to our business.

And so we have a roadmap even 2013, 2014, 2015 that there is significant RWA optimization available to us, largely if we can be there in a sense that these are structured credit trades that are going to run off and other aspects that will run off. So I think if it goes a little higher we have other optimization. And I think in terms of the shareholder view of that I think we would manage into it over time, be clear with you how we are building towards it, but we got the risk capital to run this company.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Yes, good morning. In terms of the $1.6 billion settlement with Assured, could you just walk me through how that runs through the income statement? I am on looking at page 21 and looking at the repurchase reserve and I guess it's not clear to me how that is either coming out of the reserve or going through the income statement in some other way.

CHUCK NOSKI: Sure. Well, think of this in two elements. We had provided right around $1.1 billion, $1.050 billion, for second-lien exposure, so that within our reserve as of the end of December. We will make a payment of approximately $1.1 billion in the second quarter and beyond in order to satisfy that. So that $1.1 billion reserve is in -- was in the $5.4 billion ending balance of the rep and warranty liability and is in the $6.2 billion.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, so it's going to be netted against the $6.2 billion next quarter?

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes. We haven't made the -- we did not make the payment March 31. We signed the agreement yesterday with Assured. We will begin making payments coincident with the signing of that agreement and into the future. So that is one element of it.

We also entered into a reinsurance arrangement with respect to the first lien mortgages principally because there is very little experience associated with that. We had some modest reserves set aside for that for a portion of that, but there is very little experience. Assured has put back to us a relatively small number of those mortgages.

And so rather than pay them for something that may never happen we thought it was more prudent to enter into a reinsurance arrangement where we have taken a view, as they have, with respect to how those drawdowns will occur and how we might participate in those. We estimated the cost of that reinsurance arrangement, as we have said, at about $500 million. And that was accrued as a part of our consideration of the first-quarter rep and warranty liability.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks. And then maybe Brian can put some context around this secondary question. I mean you mentioned that you feel like you are at sort of a core pretax, pre-prevision run rate of about $10 billion, which as I go through your non-recurring items we get pretty close to that number as well.

Then I sort of think about looking forward. This was a reasonably good trading quarter, you are going to have some net interest margin pressure, at least in the second quarter, and maybe lower net interest income. And then we at least get about a $500 million or maybe more a quarter hit from the implementation of the Durbin amendment, although obviously that could get delayed, but at this point I guess we will see.

That sort of brings me down to no more than sort of an annualized run rate of about $38 billion, 9.5 times 4. And so it strikes me as a challenge -- and maybe you can just walk me through some of the bigger items of how you think you are going to get to a $45 billion to $50 billion pretax, pre-provision run rate, because sort of the middle of that range is about a 25% increase from $38 billion. So I am just maybe looking at context around that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Sure. I think you got to maybe behind that is make sure your timeframe is right. We said that was beyond the 2011 and 2012 timeframe out there. So if you think about what would happen between now and then, you would have the mortgage costs come down, you would have an interest rate environment change, and so we may do better next quarter, as Chuck said. With 267 on the margin, we told you it might bottom at 250. We may do better mathematically and the numbers would be higher.

But if rates rise, and I assume that at some point the core estimates of the market, our core estimates rates rise up to a modest Fed funds rate of a couple of percentage points, that is hugely beneficial to our company and ought to push us back up to 275 and higher in the margin. If you start to do the math on our size balance sheet that is significant.

So the cost structure comes down, that happens, and then on top of that while we had a reasonably good trading quarter at $4.5 million that is the run rate that Tom needs to produce on a quarterly basis. If you look at how we are getting that now, it is all core customer driven business that is just coming through, coming through. Last year's elevated levels and last year's decline levels had more to do with sort of circumstances outside their control. But that is that.

Then if you go to the other core businesses, remember as the economy grows we have had no loan growth. We are continuing to run them down; the run-off portfolio which costs us $1.8 billion, $1.9 billion this quarter, half that number out there.

So it's really continued credit costs, a continued cost structure improvement. It's really the interest rate environment not going crazy but just improving a little bit which really helps the core deposit business. And then grinding on the growth of the franchise that we see in the revenue line based on the fees and other factors.

And so the restructuring in the consumer deposit accounts, which will be effective this year into next year, you will see lift. And as we said, the expenses are unavoidable on the mortgage side now, but we will get those out and then we will work on the rest of it.

So I think the (inaudible) around rates, expenses, and then the economy. If you have said the economy is going to go into a decline that is a different question. But assume the economy gets up to more of a trend growth of 3%, 3.5% type of numbers, you will see the general earnings of the Company lift because of loans and other things.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thank you. And then last quick one, over the last two quarters the period end share count has gone up by approximately $50 million a quarter. Is that a share creep up rate based on, I guess, employee comp that we should continue to think about?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Neil, why don't you --?

NEIL COTTY: Yes, it's comp. It's pretty much comp. (multiple speakers)

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And we should expect some kind of creep up like that each quarter, not just (multiple speakers) in the first quarter?

NEIL COTTY: Ed, in the average shares, too -- if you are looking at average shares we also had two preferred issues that flipped into common in fourth quarter that pushed up the average comp.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The mandatory converts we had.

NEIL COTTY: Correct.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So I think, Ed, what we haven't been able to do and what we will be able to do as we move down the road is the issue of being able to neutralize the comp related stuff, which was -- we get to the point where we can capital manage, we will do that as one of the first things.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, hi. One more question on the Assured Guaranty. Chuck, are there reasons to believe that their success rate would be higher than claims you will receive from other private investors, perhaps if they have stronger rep and warranties, or anything you can point to there?

CHUCK NOSKI: No, I don't -- it's not a contractual issue, John, it's -- just keep in mind they are about a third of our home equity exposure and that second lien home equity exposure is probably some of your most riskiest stuff.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, so just higher loss content due to the mix of the home equity?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, it is dominant part home equity here for this counterparty, where as you get the private label it is really all first.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and then as a reminder in terms of Basel and dividends as a reminder for us, you have said that you feel like you can get to the 8% Basel [II.5] and III. Just over what timeframe was that and is that assuming kind of no phase-in? Can you just remind us of what you are looking at for your outlook there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: What we said to you was 8% Tier 1 Basel III common at year-end 2012. That is the goal under the Basel III standards with no -- and then -- and so we are there above the standards, depending on the SIFI buffer discussion, that would be phased in over time. But our goal is to hit that at the end of 2012.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And have you said anything about where you think you will be on that by the end of this year?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have not said on the Basel III level but as Basel [II.5] becomes effective we would be above 8% under those standards at that point I think is what we said earlier. But we have not sort of given you pro formas and we will continue to look at doing that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And Brian is there any comment you can make regarding the dividend, the Fed process, any specific areas where they were looking for more clarity where they wanted to see things get clearer before saying yes to your dividend increase request?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We didn't ask them for an increase until the latter part of this year because we knew we had to get the work done I mentioned earlier around -- continue to get the systems integrated, the risk management down, and, frankly, taking care of some of the issues like we took care of this morning and clarity there. And so we continue to make progress in that.

And that leads to -- but that is really -- the core issue is us getting a lot of -- getting the work done that we promised to do in the context of implementing the risk management standards in the Company. They have been in agreement with us, our work plans all the way along. It's their process and how we can resubmit stuff is up to them.

But on the other hand I would tell you that we have a clear path that we know what we need to get done and we are doing the work. That is why we knew we had no chance and told you back in January we are not going to ask for anything in the first part of this year because we knew we had to get this work done and they knew we had to get this work done.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. The last thing here just could you explain again, you might have said it, the greater disallowance of the DTA in your regulatory capital ratios, what drove that?

CHUCK NOSKI: Well, when we acquired Merrill Lynch the regulators gave us a two-year look forward period. Excuse me, three-year look forward period. It has been -- last year it was two years, now it's one year in terms of the amount of, in effect, allowable DTA that we can include in our regulatory capital calculation.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Just so you don't make the same mistake I keep making, keep thinking we are making, this has nothing to do with the tax position. This is purely what you can count in regulatory capital. When they went back to this during the height of the crisis remember they widen the standard because of the reality of earnings streams and now we have gone back to the pre-crisis standard. But the actual tax position is a separate thing.

CHUCK NOSKI: Right, which is one year. We are not losing any deferred tax benefits as an enterprise. It's what you can count in the regulatory capital calculation.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, carryforward from the merger, carrying forward.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, and this was all contemplated in all the steps and everything we had.

JOHN MCDONALD: So no -- you don't see risk of this happening again, it's kind of done?

CHUCK NOSKI: No, we are down to the one-year look forward period which is the more traditional one.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you. One more thing, can I ask one more quick thing? On the expenses, Brian, do you have a longer-term target and is that something you eventually think you will talk about, whether as $75 billion expense base or a $70 billion or $65 billion is kind of the right number for the Company?

You baked something in to the investor day when you talked about $45 billion to $50 billion like pre-prevision earnings. Is that -- as you go through this expense initiative and efficiency you will talk a little bit about what you think the right expense number is?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we gave you an efficiency ratio target of getting back down to 55%. You can see across the quarter the efficiency ratio is bouncing all over the place. Right now 58% second quarter, 100% I think the third quarter, 92%, 75%, but this is because of the one-times in and out.

Remember, we are getting hits to revenue on these rep and warranties are actually revenue offsets not expense. But the goal is -- we can see that as that just settles and that pushes you down into the 60%s. With all the work we are doing over the next couple of years we push down to 55%.

We express as an efficiency ratio because you got to be aware that as revenues rise we want to deploy the expenses and continue to build this franchise, so we want to make sure we are matching the chances our international capabilities, the chances to grow small business bankers, the chance to grow more financial advisers to serve clients. We do not want to cut back on that while we are taking expenses out of places that need to have them taken out of.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, fair enough. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: A few clarifications. So what did HPI do over the quarter, what had you expected, and what do you expect going forward?

NEIL COTTY: As far as HPI going forward, we expect gradual improvement over the second half of the year, further deterioration next quarter but not dramatic, but gradual improvement over the balance of the year is where we are at. As far as the deterioration in the first quarter, it's on a three month lag but off the top of my head I want to say we had about 1.5% for the quarter.

MIKE MAYO: I am sorry, that is what it went down?

NEIL COTTY: That is correct.

MIKE MAYO: And you had expected, I guess, to be stable or so?

NEIL COTTY: Well, I mentioned a three-month lag so we had some catch-up because of the fourth quarter.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And then as it relates to the dividend, I am still not crystal clear on exactly what happened. You said all along you didn't expect a dividend increase till late this year. You go ahead and submit a capital plan with the dividend increase and then the Federal Reserve comes back and says you are denied. I guess I just don't understand the procedure aspect.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think the procedure aspect I will have to leave to the people who design -- the Federal Reserve designed the process. But we asked them -- and I think the idea they were approving something six months in advance of when we have done the work we need to do I think that is what they basically said, keep doing the work and go on. That is why I think it's a little bit hard to explain, but in our dialogues with them the idea was just done and then we get the approval if we get the work done right and continue to improve the Company's prospects during the first half of the year.

The process they designed and the answer they gave us was what we disclosed, but I think the theme of my dialogues with the team, and they have been with us the whole way, is to get the work done and then we will be ready to get approved. But they weren't going to approve it in advance of that work being done.

MIKE MAYO: So you can still get your dividend increase by the year-end? I mean do you think --?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We don't know what the process will be for resubmission, but as soon as when we figure that out we can tell you.

MIKE MAYO: But would you say there is still a chance for a dividend increase by the end of the year?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We should pull back, Mike, and make sure. I said that we got to get the process down with Fed. But if you step back, what we have tried to make clear to you guys is for 2011 and 2012 this is a modest dividend idea because we have to get to that 8% Basel III Tier 1 common level which requires us to maintain most of the capital. Then after that we are in a position to start returning the capital.

But all the capital that we accumulate is in our tangible book value, is on the balance sheet, and is going for the benefit of the shareholders. We are not -- we can't -- we are not using it to do anything else.

So I think whether we get the dividend in the second quarter, third quarter, fourth quarter, first quarter, whatever -- next year, this year, I think what we are trying to be clear to you is we are doing the work we need to do. We have been repositioning this company and improving it, and as soon as we -- and the regulators and the process is set we will let you know where we stand.

MIKE MAYO: I am sorry, last follow up on that. But you will resubmit a capital plan that would, at least, propose a dividend increase by the end of the year; the question is whether or not it would get approved?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The capital plant is a two-year -- we have all the submissions in it for two years and we will resubmit that when the process allows you to do it.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Then separately, as far as the piece dividend, you said several times over the call in a couple years, in a couple years. You have a new process in place to take a look at expenses.

I am just wondering if we will see a little bit more of the efficiency pick up over the next couple quarters. I know a lot of it's dependent on credit, but aside from credit what confidence can you give us that you have an eye on expenses quarter after quarter, even after acknowledging the international small-business FA investments?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, take a look at the headcount across the last few quarters. This quarter on a period to period we are 0.3% change on 288,000 people. If you look at that it was 700 total human beings, 2,700 adds in the home loan investment to work on the -- that we geared up during the quarter to continue to work on that, 2,000 down in the rest of the Company including net of all the investments we made. So we are managing the heads down in the places.

Barbara, as we talked about earlier, just announced on the production side of the mortgage company we are down 3,500 people, 2,000 of them are contractors; we obviously would take the contractors first. So as you know think about -- we are managing these expenses down as we speak.

But running through those expense lines are litigation expense and other things which throw it out on a given quarter. $1 billion, round numbers, in some of those items this quarter. So those will come down quickly once we sort of get through some of this stuff.

The headcount we are bringing down, which is the number one thing we can control and drive to, while we are making investments we added many small business bankers, 200 FAs, and things like that in the same quarter where overall heads were flattish and we added 2,700 people. So we are working on it every day. We are not waiting for the white smoke to rise from this process and we continue to drive at it.

The 50 branch closings in the quarter, the 2.60 all-in cost of all the call centers, all the online to our deposits that I challenge you to ask anybody in the industry if they are close to that. I was talking to somebody who told me they are at 4.25, 4.5.

It's a thing to scale in this business, but we keep grinding at that that down 4 basis points. Every where we can we continue to work on expenses. What we are now allowing for is a process that will help us accelerate that.

MIKE MAYO: Then last question, the syndicated loans are hot recently. What were your fees from being an arranger on syndicated loans and how much did the syndicated loans help your loans in global banking?

CHUCK NOSKI: We will get back to you on that. I don't know that off the top of my head. We are one of the leaders in that business and have always been.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

KEVIN STITT: Given the time limit we will allow one more question.

OPERATOR: Vivek Juneja, JPMorgan.

VIVEK JUNEJA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, couple of questions just on trading. Tom Montag talked about being down 15% to 20% at the investor day. Can you give a little more color as to what happened in March that you have done a little bit more than that, which categories changed?

And secondly, on IB it seems like your market share and volumes has moved up faster than fees. Can you -- it seems like a couple of big deals you got into. Can you talk about what is going on on fees in that respect?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would say as you think about it the 15% to 20% down that Tom talked about off the $8 billion obviously was still in the quarter. You had to see what took place in March and there has been some stuff in and out.

But on the other hand also, as we went through March, the DBA and other things which were clearly significant would have been taken the last month of the quarter. But, overall, if you think about from the fourth quarter to the first quarter we doubled the fixed income revenue and the equity revenue, I think it went up by 40%, 50%, 60%. So he has had a reasonable rebound.

When you go to investment banking fees, I only count what people pay us so the [leak] tables are -- having had that group for a couple of years I talk to him about when somebody pays us I know I have got cash. That is the interesting part of the business.

And I think what I we did about $1.5 billion steady with the fourth quarter last year, which had some good activity, up from $1.2 billion last year first quarter. We continue to have a strong and robust pipeline. If you have seen some of the offerings going out on the comp -- IPOs and things like that -- and we expect us to be continuing to improve those fees.

But we got $1.5 billion in fees. Every quarter for the last eight or nine we have been second based on fees received and we expect that -- my guess is that will continue.

VIVEK JUNEJA: And on the trading side, Brian, if you just break that down a little by products versus rates, FX, services, securitized for us, can you give us some color as to how you did on that year on year linked quarter? And in terms of March what got weaker, which category?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We will get Lee or Kevin to fill some of that in for you, but in broad stating a place that we still need to make improvements in the commodities business. That is one of the differences between us and some of our peers and -- but on the other hand, we have done a good job in the rates and currencies in other areas.

So it's really -- one of the big differences would be just gross dollar amount between us and others as our commodities business is just smaller and not performing so well. And so we will -- Lee can fill you in on some of the details but overall that is one of the big, easy identifiable differences.

VIVEK JUNEJA: Okay, thanks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you, everyone, and look forward to seeing you next quarter.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may disconnect at any time. Thank you and have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110429e74f001xh
  


 HD
 Q4  2010  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
14,733 words
   PD
21 January 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to today's teleconference. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). Please note, today's call is being recorded. It's now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICAN CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Chuck Noski begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.

   TD
These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.

Also joining us this morning will be Neil Cotty, our Chief Accounting Officer. And with that let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, BANK OF AMERICAN CORPORATION: Thanks, all of you, and good morning. We know this has been a busy week for all of you and thank you for joining us on a Friday. Before Chuck takes you through the quarter, I was going to give you some perspectives and provide some thoughts about the economy and the priorities we have for 2011. I'll stay mostly with the key take-away slide on slide 4 and touch on a couple other slides and then turn it over to Chuck to begin on slide 9.

As we think about 2010, we came into the year with a focus on continuing to clean up the issues left over from the crisis while continuing to driving the franchise forward, finishing the integration work at Merrill Lynch and Countrywide and continuing to simplify our business model. During the year we made progress on many of these items. In the area of credit our improvement has been strong; charge-offs have now improved for seven consecutive quarters and yet there's still room to improve here.

We continue to see improvements in delinquencies this quarter and over the last few quarters. The underwriting changes we made in 2008 across all our products, whether it was credit card, home equity or first mortgage, are performing better than we would have expected when we made those changes in those years. This ought to hold us in good stead as we move towards 2011 in terms of credit.

On the credit side we released reserves this year of $7 billion during 2010. And while we know this is not core earnings, it helped offset some of the cost of representation and warranties, about $7 billion, and other litigation costs in other matters during the year. But even with that leaves our reserve coverage ratio at 1.6 times annualized charge-offs is the highest this Company's had in many, many years.

We also identified the non-core loan portfolios and began to work those off out of the Company. As we showed you, that was about $130 billion at the start of the year and now it's down around $100 billion.

Now the good news on the loan side as the franchise has driven forward is we're starting to see stability in the core loan balances that we want to carry forward for this Company. We're even seeing some modest growth in some of the areas. Our utilization rates, for example, on our commercial area were stable in the fourth quarter from quarter three and that bodes well for 2011.

As we think about capital, we ended the year with questions around it, especially given the fact that the new Basel rules are starting to emerge along with the other changes [involved] in adopting Basel II and the Fed market risk rules, etc.

We told you at the beginning of the year we needed to hit targets of 5.5% to 6% tangible common equity ratios and 8.5% to 9% Tier 1 common ratios under Basel I by year-end in order to have the capital to run this Company. This represents the view that we have that the risk capital we need to run the Company. We achieved both of those schools this year.

We also started early and make good progress to mitigating the changes that are going to come about in both capital and risk weighted asset managers that will come with the new Basel rules. This gives us strong confidence that we have a clear path to meeting all these rules as they're adopted and staying above the regulatory minimums during the next couple years as they come through. And even during that period we'll have the ability to pay dividends and do stock buybacks over time as approved by our regulators.

During the year we also focused on our franchise. And what we mean by focused, we sold non-core positions in businesses, 20 some units overall, netting $19 billion proceeds at the same time fulfilling the commitments of our TARP repayment and streamlining the franchise and focusing on its three core customer groups and the core products for them.

In addition to that work, we redesigned our consumer account strategy to deal with the new regulations that came in 2009 and 2010. As you've read in the press, we piloted our new account structure to mitigate the revenue loss from these regulations and still provide strong customer choice. By providing that choice and the changes we made we've seen dramatically lower attrition and complaints in account closures in our consumer businesses.

From the shareholder side our stock did underperform. And our returns on equity and returns on assets are not where we want them and continue to be affected by one-time events. But during the year we did successfully grow our tangible book value per share by 15% and we look forward to driving that forward in the future.

By far the biggest legacy issue we continue to deal with is on the mortgage side. On pages 7 and 8 we highlight some of the changes and Chuck will talk about some of the rep and warrantee and put-back issues later, but let me summarize some of the key elements.

As we entered the year 2010, a lot of the operational work was around the modification area and building up the teams to do the foreclosures. As we moved through the year the discussions around representations and warranties started dominating the discussions. This year we took a total of $7 billion of representation and warranty costs as offsets to revenue. A significant portion of our litigation expense this year was also due to mortgage issues.

We are pleased to put the GSEs behind us this quarter, as we announced on January 3. We'll continue to focus our efforts in protecting our shareholders in regard to these matters as we deal with the other counterparties involved in representation and warranty and put-back issues.

When we think about modifications, our efforts continue to build. We did 285,000 modifications during 2010, including 76,000 during the fourth quarter alone, the most in the industry. We completed a review of the foreclosure practices, the process is working and we restarted the efforts cautiously. We'll continue to face regulatory and other scrutiny here, but the work is proceeding and we are very focused on doing this right for all the parties involved.

During 2010 we also completed a milestone of $2 billion in merger and integration work. And next quarter we'll actually complete the final touches of the Merrill Lynch integration. And for the first time in many years we'll have no integration work to do in this Company.

What that gives us the ability to do is turn that energy and focus to managing our efficiency in the Company through simplification. Included in that will be taking our four deposit systems during 2011 and 2012 to one deposit system and many other like activities.

Our expense levels are not where we want them right now. They're higher because of the debt collection and other costs related to the legacy issues. But if you think about what we've been doing in managing expenses, we continue to invest in the franchise while managing through the post crisis issues.

To help you think about that, think of the headcount in the Company. During the year we raised about -- our headcount has gone up by about 3,000 people. We've dedicated almost 13,000 additional people to the mortgage issues and foreclosure modifications and collection areas.

We've invested 2,000 people in growth areas, about half in the Wealth Management and other areas in the United States, about half outside the United States. That means the rest of the franchise is effectively down about 10,000 to 12,000 people. So we continue to manage cost while we deal with the legacy issues and invest for growth and that's how we'll continue to run the franchise during 2011.

While all the work was going on in sort of repositioning the balance sheet capital in the franchise the core business continued to progress. First, our job is to drive the integration of this franchise to bring the combination which can do better than any one of our businesses as a stand-alone business could do. If you look at the appendix slides 33 and 34 you can see some of the evidence of that.

Our card business turned to an operating profit this year from a $5 billion loss last year. Our deposit performance, while challenged by the lowest rate environment and regulatory changes, has improving customer scores and our share in deposits continues to grow on the retail side even giving effect to our disciplined pricing strategies. Our deposits now cross $1 trillion at Bank of America for the first time.

Our wealth management business has seen strong growth, both in assets under management flows, assets under management, deposits and we're seeing loans stabilize in that business. We've made good progress in hiring financial advisors, Wealth Management bankers and other client facing teammates. The group has produced a solid profit including record revenue in the fourth quarter of 2010 and still has lots of great opportunity ahead.

Our global commercial banking business, our middle market and small business banking business, recovered strong earnings and returns this year as credit normalized and our market leading positions showed their strength.

In our global banking and markets area, which would be large corporate investment banking and the trading and capital markets activity, we maintained our number two position in our investment banking business throughout the year. Our investment banking fees from third parties are the highest this quarter they've been since we merged with Merrill.

Our sales and trading revenue team had a solid year, but we had varied results by quarter, going from a high of $7 billion in revenue to a low of around $3 billion. We're satisfied with the year in total, but we need to work on the ups and downs, and Chuck will take you through some of the details on that later on.

As we think about 2010, we made progress, we stabilized the balance sheet in capital and you can see that on slide 6 in some of the statistics on that balance sheet statistics given there. We did lose $2 billion for the year 2010 and $1 billion in the fourth quarter; both of those numbers were not -- we are disappointed with.

But with the year came large ins and outs and they're all [merely] driven by legacy issues which we continue to put behind us -- $12 billion in after-tax goodwill impairments; $7 billion in representation and warranty and put-back costs as a [contra] to revenue; $3 billion in litigation expense nearly; $2 billion in merger and restructuring charges and other charges like that and those of course were offset in part by the $7 billion in reserve releases and $3 billion in assets sales. We clearly need to continue to reduce the inns and outs and let the core franchise performance come through for you, our investors.

As we look to 2011 the priorities are clear -- we're going to make progress in putting the mortgage operational issues behind us, meaning modifications, foreclosures and related process improvements. In the representation and warranty and put-back area we're going to continue to make progress, only if we can do it on a basis consistent with our shareholder interest. But our best guess is this will take a longer period of time, perhaps a few years.

We're going to drive the core customer business, integrating this powerful franchise and delivering to each customer. We're going to drive our expense management during the year, ensuring that we get the expenses out of here as we continue to recover in mortgage and other credit-related costs.

And importantly, we're going to deliver on the growth opportunities in our franchise, be at Wealth Management, the affluent customer base in the consumer area, the investment banking area all in the United States and abroad and we'll continue to invest in those businesses as we did in 2010.

As we look to 2011 we see the economy continuing to recover. All the key metrics we see in our customer base that we monitor externally like you do, including the credit demand, consumer spending and specialty spending among middle-class and affluent clients, the debt burdens the households are carrying, the asset quality of our portfolios -- all of those are pushing ahead.

We still face, however, the realities of high-end sticky unemployment in this country and a slow and stagnant recovery in housing and modest overall US growth. In this context we'll continue to drive towards delivering shareholder returns by continuing to grow our tangible book value per share as we materialize a recovery in the franchise.

We continue to believe we're in a position to modestly increase our common dividend in the back half of 2011, but of course we need our regulator's approval to do so.

So we still have a lot to do. But at the same time we have the best franchise in the industry with number one or two positions in every product area and the largest customer/client base and the history. We can't and will not lose our focus on levering these franchises as the economy improves for you, our shareholders.

We have a clear strategy, to serve three customer groups with their core financial needs in the best way a provider can do. We have a well defined operating principle which we've laid out for you that enables us to meet that strategy and we continue to execute against them. 2010 was the year to repair the balance sheet, rebuild some of the capital ratios and reserve ratios and also tough but necessary decisions as we focused on cleaning up our legacy issues.

But as the economy continues to improve and we continue to execute, I have every confidence the franchise will keep moving to the performance that it's capable of. Finally, I want to thank our 290,000 associates for the tireless efforts they made during 2010 and I'll turn it over to Chuck starting on slide 9.

CHUCK NOSKI, CFO, BANK OF AMERICAN CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. As you can see on slide 9, we reported a net loss of $0.16 per share for the quarter. Our results reflected the non-cash non-tax deductible write-down of $2 billion or $0.20 per share of goodwill associated with our home loans and insurance business that we discussed on January 3. Excluding this goodwill impairment charge, earnings were approximately $750 million or $0.04 per share after preferred dividends.

Results for the fourth quarter reflected the positive and negative impact of several items which makes for a difficult comparison this quarter. If you turn to slide 10 we've listed some of the larger items. Representations and warranties expense in the fourth quarter was $4.1 billion of which $3 billion was associated with the GSE settlements we have previously described.

A credit mark on structured liabilities under the fair value option resulted in a negative adjustment of $1.2 billion reflecting a tightening of our credit spreads compared to a negative adjustment of $190 million in the third quarter and is reported in other income.

Asset sales during the quarter included our partial ownership in Blackrock reducing our ownership from 34% to 7%, the sale of our rights to participate in CCB's secondary offering, and the sale of the majority of the global security solutions business.

We had $872 million in security gains during the quarter. We already touched on the goodwill impairment charge. Excluding fees paid to external legal service providers litigation expense for the quarter was $1.5 billion, primarily related to our consumer businesses including the mortgage business. Merger-related and restructuring charges were $370 million.

Loan loss reserves were reduced by $1.7 billion in the quarter versus $1.8 billion in the third quarter. And finally, we had a tax benefit of $2.4 billion primarily reflecting the pre-tax loss before the goodwill impairment charges, the release of a capital loss carryover valuation allowance of about $1.2 billion and normal tax preference items.

Turning to slide 11, you can see that four of our business segments made money in the fourth quarter. Deposits lost money due to increased litigation costs this quarter and were also affected by the full impact of Reg E and continued low interest rates. Global card services benefited from improving credit quality and reported $1.5 billion in net income.

Global wealth and investment management had a very good quarter earning $332 million due primarily to near record quarterly revenue levels driven by market activity, strong long-term client flows and a shift in the mix of assets towards higher margin products. Home loans and insurance was significantly impacted by legacy costs including the goodwill impairment charge, reps and warranties expense and litigation costs.

Our First Mortgage Banking business, however, excluding these costs was profitable in the quarter. Global Commercial Banking earned more than $1 billion this quarter as credit quality continued to improve and has delivered stable revenue through the cycle reflecting strong client retention. Global Banking and Markets showed continued solid results in Investment and Corporate Banking offset by a difficult trading environment in Global Markets.

Let's turn to net interest income on slide 12. Net interest income on an FTE basis was $12.7 billion, essentially flat with the third quarter. The impact of low rates and lower consumer balances, excluding residential mortgages, were offset by positive hedge income of $250 million, increased balances in the discretionary portfolio, and a reduction in long-term debt.

Our average earning assets for the quarter were up $20 billion, mainly due to growth in consumer loans and securities. Cash declined due to a shift in liquidity mix from cash to liquid securities in addition to a net reduction in our outstanding debt. Consumer loans increased due to retained mortgage originations. Commercial loan demand stabilized in the quarter and, as we said earlier, average commercial loans excluding real estate were up 1% from the prior quarter.

Although we were flat with the third quarter, we expect net interest income to decline over the next couple of quarters. In the first quarter of 2011 in particular, we expect net interest income to drop from fourth-quarter levels due to fewer days in the quarter, continued declines from our loan run-off portfolios, and an anticipated reduction in hedge results. We expect to see stabilization in net interest income sometime in the second half of the year. We're also on track to lower our long-term debt footprint by 15% to 20% by the end of 2011 relative to third-quarter 2010 levels.

Slide 13 shows you that both average loans and deposits were up for the quarter. Deposits remains a good story of growth as Wealth Management clients continue to do more business with us and commercial customers continue to prefer to hold rather than invest cash.

On slide 14 you can see that period-end loans from the end of September were up approximately $6.5 billion due to growth of almost $17 billion, partially offset by net charge-offs and decreases in our run-off portfolios. We have a slide in the appendix that details our run-off portfolios for you. The $17 billion increase in total loans was driven by residential mortgages, primarily FHA insured originations, as we used some excess liquidity, and C&I loans offset by a slight decrease in commercial real estate.

Turning to slide 15, card revenue was up 7% from third-quarter results due to a 12% increase in interchange income. Increases in retail spending were 4% versus the prior quarter and 5% versus the prior year. These increases helped drive the increase in interchange income. And on a managed basis card revenue was relatively flat from a year ago despite the impact of the CARD Act.

On slide 16 we show service charges were down $176 million from third-quarter levels to $2 billion, which is the number we targeted for you two quarters ago. The decrease was due to the approximately $275 million impact of Reg E this quarter after becoming effective midway through the third quarter.

So now that the full impact of Reg E is embedded in our results you can use this quarter's results as a base going forward. Remember though that the full impact from both Reg E and the CARD Act wasn't reflected in quarterly results in service charges and card revenue for the first three quarters of 2010.

Other regulatory impacts that will affect service charges in 2011 are the Durbin amendment which is scheduled to occur in the last half of the year. We expect this would cost is approximately $1 billion in revenue. We won't know the expected impact on debit card and interchange though until late April, so we hope to update you on that during our first-quarter earnings call. While we expect to mitigate some of the impact over time, we do expect the impact of mitigation efforts will be modest in 2011.

Mortgage banking revenue, on slide 17, decreased from the third quarter as a result of higher reps and warranties expense which includes the impact of the GSE agreements and additional accrued liabilities. MSR performance net of hedges was $257 million this quarter, an increase of $347 million compared to the loss last quarter. Although production volume in First Mortgage at $85 billion was up from the third quarter, production revenue was down due to lower lock volumes in production margins.

The capitalization rate for the consumer mortgage MSR asset ended the quarter at 92 basis points versus 73 basis points in the third quarter. Given the direction of interest rates since Thanksgiving, and the redeployment of some of our sales force to assist with our distressed customers, we forecast production levels will be lower over the near term.

Turning to slide 18, you can see that total reps and warranties expense in the quarter was $4.1 billion, up $3.3 billion from the prior quarter. Much of the increase was the result of our recent agreements with the GSEs. The liability we have accrued on the balance sheet increased approximately $1 billion to $5.4 billion as the $4.1 billion representations and warranties expense was partially offset by approximately $3 billion in charge-offs and other activities.

As you can see, our unresolved repurchase requests totaled approximately $10.7 billion at year end. This amount includes $1.7 billion of demands contained in the communication from private label securitization investors. We believe these investors do not have the contractual right to demand the repurchase of loans directly or the right to access loan files.

The inclusion of these claims and the amounts reflected in the chart does not mean that we believe these claims have satisfied the contractual requirements that would permit them to direct the securitization trustee to take action or that they are otherwise procedurally or substantively valid. Outstanding claims were reduced by $2.3 billion driven by the resolution of $8 billion of claims during the quarter including $4.9 billion as part of the GSE agreements.

Monoline claims outstanding continue to grow as the monoline's continue to submit claims and are generally unwilling to withdraw these claims even when they've been given evidence refuting the claims. The increase in rescissions and approvals in the fourth quarter was substantially impacted by the agreements with the GSEs. We've included slides in the appendix that update the information we presented early this year on our GSE experience.

On slide 19 we provided additional information around our experience with non-GSE counterparties which would encompass whole loan sales and private label securitizations, including those where monolines have insured some or all of the debt. On slide 37 in the appendix we break down our non-GSE experience much as we did for the GSEs.

As you can see on slide 19, from 2004 through 2008, $963 billion of loans were sold into private label securitizations or through whole loan sales where we believe we have originated reps and warranties exposure. We broke out the originations for you by both legacy entity as well as product to give you a bit more clarity on the portfolio.

Through December 31 repurchase claims received on the 2004 to 2008 vintages totaled $13.7 billion. $6 billion in those claims have been resolved and, as you can see, resolution success and rescission rates are much higher with private investors versus the monolines. The losses on the resolved claims were approximately $1.7 billion. Of the remaining outstanding claims $5.8 billion have been reviewed and declined for repurchase.

Moving to slide 20, of the $963 billion of original principle balance 22% have defaulted or are severely delinquent. 58% of defaulted or severely delinquent loans made at least 24 payments prior to default or delinquency.

As we have indicated previously, in those instances where we have had meaningful and consistent repurchase experience with counterparties, such as the GSEs and certain monoline insurers, a liability for reps and warranties has been established for asserted and unasserted request to repurchase current and future defaulted loans.

With the exception of certain monoline insurers we have not had meaningful and consistent repurchase experience with other non-GSE counterparties. We do evaluate all asserted claims received from all parties in establishing our liability. However, as we and others in our industry have noted, analysts and other market participants have developed their own estimates of possible exposure for Bank of America and other institutions.

Although the non-GSE claims experience remains limited, we expect additional activity in this area going forward and it is possible that further losses may occur. We received a number of investor inquiries following our GSE announcement earlier this month regarding the extent of such possible non-GSE exposure. In addition, in connection with our planning process, we evaluated various possible alternative scenarios.

We've developed a preliminary estimate of a possible loss range using a variety of judgmental options. That estimate suggests a possible upper range of loss that could be up to $7 billion to $10 billion over existing accruals. As a reminder, there are significant legal and procedural hurdles that counterparties would need to overcome before we believe any of these amounts could become probable. We would expect resolution of these matters to be a protracted process which could take years to conclude.

As you can see on slide 21, for example, there are substantial differences between the reps and warranties provided to GSEs and those provided in private-label transactions. Until we have meaningful repurchase liability with these counterparties, we do not believe it is possible to determine that a loss is probable and, accordingly, to accrue for any such loss.

As we have previously described to you, where we conclude that a valid breach of reps and warranties has occurred we will act in a responsible manner. On the other hand, where we've concluded that a valid basis for repurchase does not exist we will vigorously contest such claims and defend the interest of Bank of America and its shareholders.

Okay, it now back to earnings on slide 22. As I said earlier, our activity with Wealth Management clients resulted in revenue approaching record quarterly levels which is where we generate the bulk of the investment in brokerage revenues.

Investment in brokerage revenue was up $155 million or 6% from the third quarter due to both higher asset management fees and brokerage income. Asset management fees were a record $1.4 billion and brokerage revenue was approximately $1.5 billion. Total client balances grew $69 billion to more than $2.2 trillion during the quarter as a result of market activity and strong flows into deposits and long-term asset management products.

Sales and trading revenue, on slide 23, of $2.6 billion, which includes both net interest income and non-interest income, decreased approximately 43% from the third quarter, but was higher than last year by 17%. The decrease in sales and trading was partially from seasonal declines but a few other factors stand out.

We had a softer trading environment as rates backed up, negatively impacting some of our risk positions. This also caused clients to exit bond funds with money flowing into cash or equity funds putting pressure on prices. We've expressed a significant tightening of credit spreads during the year and, to a lesser extent, during the fourth quarter. Certain sectors such as European debt experienced spread widening.

We've also been focused on the impact of the new Basel capital rules and the impact to the amount of capital attracted to our markets business. Over the last couple of quarters we've been focused on reducing the higher capital-intensive assets and as well our exposure to shorter-term funding agreements. FIC was impacted the most from these items, decreasing 49% to $1.8 billion with lower results in credit, rates and commodities products.

Equity revenue was down 19% to $789 million from the third quarter as an increase in cash business commission revenue from inflows was more than offset by a decline in market volatility and client flows impacting equity derivatives. We didn't have any major impact from legacy assets in the quarter while we continue to reduce our exposure to auction rate securities, CMBS and monolines.

In investment banking, on slide 24, our overall fee ranking remains solid as we were ranked at a strong number two globally and number one in the US. Investment banking revenue increased 16% from the third quarter and was on par with a great fourth quarter from a year ago. Results were driven by increases in all areas, namely M&A, debt and equity capital markets.

Let me say a couple of things about expense levels on slide 25. Total expense, excluding the goodwill impairment charges in the last two quarters, increased $2 billion from the third quarter. Expenses this quarter included higher litigation expenses, as I said earlier.

Personnel expense compared to the third quarter is up approximately $400 million reflecting the build-out of strategic hires in certain businesses including international as well as certain severance and benefit-related expenses. Higher levels of headcount and expense in home loans and insurance were related to default management staff and other loss mitigation activities in that business.

Reiterating what Brian said earlier, our expense levels, excluding goodwill charges, are up from 2009 novels for several reasons including additional headcount to address legacy mortgage issues. For 2011 we expect our expense levels to remain elevated as we work through these issues and continue to invest in the franchise.

Moving to asset quality trends on slide 26. As they did throughout most of the year, delinquencies, excluding FHA loans, net charge-offs and non-performing assets, continue to improve.

On slide 27, improving credit performance in almost all portfolios drove the decrease in net charge-offs. Net charge-offs of $6.8 billion decreased $414 million compared to the third quarter. Consumer net charge-offs were down $252 million, even with a $330 million valuation adjustment on certain mortgage loans, reflecting improvement in card and home equity.

Commercial asset quality also improved as net charge-offs dropped 15% from the prior quarter with the biggest drivers being small business and commercial real estate. Reserve reductions included $1.1 billion on US card along with releases in commercial real estate, small business, direct/indirect consumer and commercial.

On our $36 billion purchased credit impaired consumer book, which is comprised of discontinued real estate, residential mortgages and home equity, we increased the reserve $828 million to reflect an adjusted outlook for home prices. Even with the decline in reserve levels, the ratio of allowance for loan losses to annualized net charge-off was essentially flat compared to the third quarter at roughly 1.6 times and is up from roughly 1.1 times a year ago.

In thinking about credit costs in 2011, we think provision expense should continue to edge down through the year as charge-offs continue to move lower primarily in the consumer businesses. We expect loan-loss reserve reductions will continue as long as portfolio performance and the economy continue to improve and our other credit metrics warrant lower reserves.

That concludes my prepared remarks for this morning. As you may know, we've scheduled March 8 to have our Investor Day in New York, so I look forward to seeing all of you there. And with that, let's open it up for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. I wanted to talk a little bit about the tail risk on the mortgage and the clean up that you mention, Brian, at the beginning of the call. You'd indicated that you could range private label $7 billion to $10 billion based on your assumptions. Why not take a large reserve against that and kind of be done with it in the next quarter or two?

CHUCK NOSKI: Betsy, I want to be very clear for you and everyone on the line as to what that -- the ranges that we gave today. This is a possible range, not a probable range. It could be as low as zero theoretically up to a high end of the range that we think could be $7 billion to $10 billion based upon an array of different assumptions and judgments, none of which we've seen in evidence through current behavior either in the portfolios or by the counterparties.

So we really, as I said, we really don't have a basis to make an accrual. We had a lot of interest from investors asking us to help understand what we thought about a possible exposure in the future. And until we can meet the accounting criteria to judge this as probable we really don't have a basis to make an accrual. And certainly we expect there will be additional provisions in future quarters; we don't think they're going to fall to zero. But we really don't have a basis.

This is an array of alternative scenarios we did during our year-end planning process coming into the new year to try to size under various kinds of scenarios what might happen. But it doesn't even begin to rise to the level of probability that would allow us to do any accounting, nor do we frankly expect that we would lose that amount.

BETSY GRASECK: You do have some private-label experience though, right, that you have paid out on? What's the reason for why that experience that you have had so far isn't sufficient?

CHUCK NOSKI: Actually, Betsy, most of that other repurchase experience was with whole loan investors, and that's rather episodic. As it relates to private-label investors and securitizations, that has been extremely modest.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And the litigation reserve or the litigation costs that you had in the quarter, should we take that as a run rate for the foreseeable future, or is there any color you can give us as to expected volatility in that line?

CHUCK NOSKI: I think you should probably expect that we'll have some provisions there. They were both -- as I mentioned, the provision in the quarter was in our consumer businesses, so it was more than just mortgage. So there will be -- you saw in the deposits business for the quarter that we reported a loss. Without the litigation provision associated with deposits, that business would have been profitable in the quarter.

But I think it is hard to think about a run rate for litigation expenses. Again, those will be based on the facts and circumstances and the judgments of our attorneys each quarter about the status of our overall litigation portfolio, although certainly a disproportionate part of our litigation portfolio is in the form of Countrywide space.

BETSY GRASECK: And then last on FIC, in broad strokes could you give us a sense as to how much of the FIC decline was due to either actively managing down due to Basel III, passively allowing things to roll off because of Basel III in DBA, or just the market being difficult?

CHUCK NOSKI: I would say it would be largely the market being difficult and client -- and the lack of clients flows. But certainly as we look to manage our balance sheet more effectively and think about the new capital rules that has also had an impact.

BETSY GRASECK: Is there any DDA in there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: No, I think that's in other income.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And you outlined how much that is?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, maybe a small amount, but most -- the big adjustment is the fair value option adjustment on the Merrill Lynch structured notes.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, I know -- you guys have been giving out guidance on core pre-tax pre-provision numbers? Because that's one of the numbers that we really like to look at and I think numbers have tended to be all over the street. Can you help us out a little bit on how we should be looking at those numbers?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have not given guidance on [PPNR] and there are a couple of reasons. But the main one is that with a credit card business you can lead yourself to -- and we talked about this a few earnings calls ago -- you can lead yourself to a number.

When we had $30 billion, $40 billion of credit card charge-offs that the PPNR is fine, but you're always going to have a charge-off rate of some magnitude in there and that then could lead you to the conclusion that it will go to zero and it won't, because the cost of goods sold in credit card is apart to credit card costs.

So I think Chuck gave you various -- as he went through his presentation various points of view about net interest income, and it would sort of continue down as the interest rate environment and we had a good hedged quarter on that and that helped this quarter as it flattens and comes down and will flatten in the middle of next year and come back up.

Expenses, I think we gave you some guidance, but in terms of PPNR, we struggle a little bit. I know that that's a number you track closely, but we struggle a little bit as to how you guide people on it overall, but also importantly how it really plays into the context of a company that has a large credit card portfolio.

PAUL MILLER: And just one quick follow-up on Betsy's question. How much exposure do you have to the whole loan sales in the private-label? In other words, how much -- do you ever disclose how much you've sold out there? Because I know -- and I think you disclosed last quarter what you've paid out on private-label. I didn't see that disclosure this time around; I might have missed it.

CHUCK NOSKI: Let's see, I think if you went looking in the appendix, probably your best sense of the non-GSE portfolio would be back on page 38, Paul. But I don't -- I don't think we've cut back at all on the disclosure we've given you with respect to the performance of these individual portfolios and the actions with counterparties.

PAUL MILLER: But I was just wondering, do you actually disclose how much you sold in whole loans to private-label? Because I know if we get some insight on mortgage finance we can get the overall private-label exposure. But what's the exposure on the whole loan side? Because that's what you've been paying out at this point, am I correct?

CHUCK NOSKI: We'll get to that. It's disclosed, Kevin and [Lee] can get you that.

KEVIN STITT: Yes, we'll get you that, Paul, I don't think it's here in our slides today.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thanks a lot, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi. Another clarification on the private-label. Chuck, in the illustrative scenario of the $7 billion to $10 million, when you say "over existing accruals", I just want to clarify. Which existing accruals are you referring to? Is that litigation reserves or the rep and warranty reserve?

CHUCK NOSKI: It's both the rep and warranty reserves and the associated litigation reserves.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So there's some contemplation of private-label losses in both of those?

CHUCK NOSKI: We really -- frankly it's the entire portfolio. So if you look back on slide -- let's see, 38, which shows the original principal balance I talked about earlier of $963 billion, how much remains unpaid. And what we do is as potentially at risk, our estimate contemplates that entire population, because we believe we pretty well have taken care of GSEs already. But it's -- primarily it's monolines, it's private-label, it's whole loan sales, it's all of that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and where did the litigation reserves stand at year end?

CHUCK NOSKI: John, we don't disclose the amount of our litigation reserves -- the balances. We'll talk to you about provisions, but we're not going to share that.

JOHN MCDONALD: In terms of the SCAP test, do you know if this upper range illustration that you gave today is what the Fed will accept as the adverse scenario outcome for that component of the SCAP?

CHUCK NOSKI: John, certainly as one of the 19 banks that participated in the process, we provided a whole array of information to our regulator. But I think that's viewed as supervisory information, I don't think we can really comment.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Can you give any more color on what kind of magnitude of a drop in NII we might look for in the first half of 2011 or how much the hedge results helped in the fourth quarter?

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes, I think I mentioned the hedge result in the fourth quarter was a benefit of about $250 million. We'd love to continue that, but anticipating that we don't have that level of help in the first quarter of 2011 is probably a good guess.

JOHN MCDONALD: Then all of that goes away?

CHUCK NOSKI: I think certainly a substantial part of it.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then also just on the expense that you talked about -- what adjustment should we make to the fourth-quarter expense level to get to a sense of what the run rate is going into 2011? Could you help us with that, just kind of think about the expense run rate?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think, John, I'd give a perspective and Chuck can give you a perspective. I think there's -- as you think about the expense run rate and if you look at page 25 you can sort of see -- you've got two broad concepts.

One is sort of some of the one-time expenses, the extra litigation, higher-level litigation in the quarter and things like that, year-end cleanup, professional fees and things that typically happen in the fourth quarter. So that's sort of one thing that you can neutralize, you can look over the quarters and smooth some of that out and think about that as a run rate question.

But the second is that the intention of personnel to work on the bad credit and the mortgage -- and that's what I tried to shape for you a little bit. So during 2010 we added 13,000 people dedicated that we otherwise wouldn't need, but they're working to help -- dictated to the task of helping on the mortgage cleanup. That's going to be elevated all through 2011. It will take us 2011 into probably halfway through 2012 before we sort of really get on the downward side of being able to get through all that work. So those costs will stay in.

So as I think Chuck said overall, we don't think expenses are going to stay at these levels. And if they go up on comp or something like that, that's going to be revenue related which will be good news. But the core expense run rate is sort of there. And then as we work through this year we'll be able to start to take it out as the mortgage activity in particular and other activities like that start to subside.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: And, John, remember there's a spike in the first quarter from FAS 123 which is when we pay equity compensation and some of that has to get recognized up front because of some of (technical difficulty).

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And last thing here just back on the private-label. Can you give an update on the status of discussions with the group that had a letter in October, the PIMCO Blackrock Group? Is there a late January deadline for resolving that and will we know when that's over?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: There's no real news on the discussions and there was an extension that was filed that -- the end of January and we continue to work to talk to people, but we haven't changed our posture. We're not doing anything, it's not going to be in our shareholders' best interest. But we always want to talk to everybody in the world to make sure we understand where they stand.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. If I could circle back on the FIC revenues and I guess just bigger picture as we think about implementing all the changes for Basel III, what do you think the longer-term impact is versus a more normal run rate? And maybe I'll just throw out there, maybe an annual level of FIC revenues are in the $10 billion to $12 billion range, Basel III would reduce that by 10%, 20% or do you think you can offset it over time. Just any thoughts on what the near- and longer-term impact could be.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would say that we have been taking out what we would -- think of Basel III and Volker and other things. We've been downsizing our -- we took our prop business down and it's actually almost done, it will be done early this year. But overall the rest of the impact is relatively modest. And I would not put the fourth quarter into Basel III, those types of things.

I think it just was a tougher quarter in terms of client activity, and a tougher quarter in terms of market. And it's not any one area, across the board we just had lower revenues and in the latter part of December nothing happened. So I wouldn't be focused on that. I think we're still comfortable with the average type of run rates we talked about, $4.5 billion, $5 billion in total revenue from the sales trading platform that you can see if you look back.

And we continue to size the business appropriately that way, Tom has made the changes there. So I wouldn't say that Basel III is going to affect us. We're going to run it tightly, we're going to run the balance sheet tightly. It's more because of the economics involved than anything else. In this quarter I'd really chalk it up to sort of a malaise and a tougher market quarter.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And sorry, the $4.5 billion to $5 billion of sales and trading, that's a quarterly level including both equities and fixed income?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, that's total revenue in there and the capital markets activity. And it's going to balance around. I mean just look at the last four quarters -- you can see a wide range. And so -- I think ins and outs were a little more pronounced this year, especially because the one quarter was so high. But I think if you look at it over time, if we don't get that kind of run rate we're going to have to resize the business because that's what's needed to produce the right returns.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, that's helpful. And then just separately, I guess on the whole kind of broader foreclosure issue for the industry, I'm personally surprised that it's kind of lasted this long. It feels like there's a lot of incentive for everyone to figure out some sort of settlement and move on. I know when you're in discussions it's hard to talk about these things publicly, but any color you can give on maybe timing of putting this issue behind the industry or maybe what needs to happen to get people at the table to hammer out an agreement here?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think it's hard to reflect on that, there are a lot of groups involved and you've seen them talking to press about what's going on and we won't do that. What I will tell you though is we did a thorough review. We identified what we need to do to make sure that we could erase from anybody's memory that there was any lack of precision, integrity, discipline in the process. And we've restarted the process based on that and we've dedicated lots of people, lots of work to make sure that there will be no question about it.

Resolving the types of things you're talking about will take some time, but the reality is -- the key is that we've actually done the work, completed it, brought in the outside review, brought in the inside review and are back working on it and working through this very difficult situation for the borrower. So I'd separate sort of the regulatory and other issues away from is the activity starting to progress? And the answer on that is, yes.

MATT O'CONNOR: And then just lastly on the debit card. You're starting to have more banks come out publicly and say there are offsets or -- I think one bank said they think they can offset it 50%, one bank said 100%, one bank is claiming it's illegal. Just any updated thoughts you have on that in terms of how this plays out when all is said and done?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think what we have said in the past still stands. Over time we have to mitigate all of it because we have to get the returns in the business back to what we need. But in the short term the transition, and as Chuck said in his comments, it will be slower just because you lose the revenue instantaneously and it takes a while.

Now the key things we've done, and you've seen and the press reported, is that we have restructured our account structure. And during the course of 2011 that is out in a pilot state, it will ultimately roll through the entire customer base over the next three, four quarters. And that allows us to, we think in the right way, recover the revenue that will [end] in 2012 and 2013 as that account structure goes through.

And so I think that would be our statement sort of -- that would be our clarity on timing. 2011 is the transition year, 2012 we start to recover and it will take a little time. And as interest rates rise, we have to remember that interest rates are a multitude of effect on that business, the low interest rate environment, the value of deposits then the fee side over time. So as interest rates rise we're going to have a have disciplined pricing in our structure and the team has done that to gather back some of it there too.

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes, particularly with our scale.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. All right, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, guys. My first question has to do with credit. I guess we saw obviously improvement in the charge-off ratio and in [NPAs], but 90-day delinquencies were flat and we saw only pretty modest improvement in 30-plus day delinquencies. So I'm wondering if you have any comments sort of on your outlook for the pace of credit quality improvement going forward. Looking at the delinquency trends it seems like it's likely to slow down relative to prior quarters. Any comments there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think the pace has slowed in prior quarters only because in the grand scheme we've gone from I think $12 billion is at the high point down to $6 billion in pure charge-offs now. But we continue to see the delinquencies improve. The entry levels -- what's gone in, the roll rates are solid, what's come in the card business -- and especially if you look at the core portfolios that you've got the runoff portfolios and the non-runoff portfolios in some of these businesses, even -- you look at them, it's very solid.

So we're encouraged on the consumer side in what we've seen in early stage delinquencies in all the portfolios. But the pace of improvement will slow only because we had -- quite honestly, had a long way to come from. And if you looked in the commercial, you could look at our criticized assets, you're seeing them start to come down, you're not only seeing charge-offs, and that bodes well for future credit costs, obviously.

So it's slower, but it's relentless and it will continue to improve. And if you look at the vintages, what I was saying earlier -- if you look at the vintages of the underwriting we did in 2008, especially like halfway through 2008 and out, we had a prediction for unemployment, things like that in card and mortgage and stuff. It has been worse than that as nobody would have predicted it right at the time.

But our vintages are actually performing better than they would have been predicted in a worse economic scenario. And so our confidence is as we move each quarter this will continue to improve, but the pace will be slower just because we had a long way to come from.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks for that. And then secondarily, just going back to page 10 with all the one-timers, we add that all back and get sort of a $0.17 core EPS level this quarter excluding all those one timers, it annualizes to $0.68. I guess the question would be given that annualized core earnings run rate and knowing that we've got some revenue headwinds on the way, you talked about lower NII and we know Durbin is on the way.

Is there any thought to launching somewhat of a more broad-based efficiency improvement initiative over -- at least at some point over the next 12 months? I know you talked about the idea that credit-related operating costs and those 13,000 people would come out over time. But is there -- is there a desire to try to launch something more substantial in terms of efficiency enhancement or would you say there's just too much going on within the Company right now to get into some kind of a plan like that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Let me -- a couple things. One is, so in all our businesses we continue to manage this and reposition. So if you take our global banking markets business, the headcount for the year is sort of flattish, but we have 1,000 more -- 800 to 1,000 more people working outside the United States and reduced inside the United States and in Europe to fund that Asia growing, Latin American places. So we continue to reposition people even within the context of headcount being fairly flat.

I'd say that absolutely something we will continue to focus on is expenses, we'll continue to focus on it across the Company broadly. And as we shape the Company more normally, I gave you the one group in mortgage, but it's actually broader, that's just the additional people we put on in 2010. And then so you've got mortgage, you've got card business, we continue to get the dividend as you see the delinquencies and costs come down there.

And then you've got -- even in the commercial area as we continue to collect and bring criticized assets down. And then overall we've got to bring the overhead in this Company down and the team -- we're working on that and we'll continue to embed that as we go through the next several quarters.

You are exactly right, we are still settling this Company in, we've got to make sure that we've got all the things settled in. And so the timing of that is as we move through this year we'll get more and more aggressive on that. But right now we have to be careful to make sure that we don't have any backwards movement in terms of some of the improvements in risk and controls and getting the mortgage foreclosure.

So we're trying to balance that, but we know how to take out cost, we've done it many times before and we'll continue to do that. And so what we really ought to do is get strong operating leverage as revenues do improve. And there are still some headwinds, we agree with you, but trading revenue this quarter is down and it will come back up and if it doesn't we'll adjust the size of that platform to make up for it.

But as revenues improve the key is to continue to get the expenses to sort of stay in the flattish category even as revenues are coming back up and that's what the team is working on. And someplace like the retail area and the consumer branch system, we continue to downsize, I think we're down 250 branches. We'll continue to work on that as customer change takes place.

So this is all over the area. But we are doing more broad-based work and we'll continue to do that. But there is a balance here of just making sure that we keep the stability and the strength moving forward and the reality of where we are in the cycle and some of these collection and other issues.

ED NAJARIAN: So maybe a more formal plan is more like a 2012 event than a 2011 event?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, Ed, I wouldn't -- maybe not clear out there. But we have a formal plan every month when we do our business reviews, so it's not as mysterious as letting it happen, we drive it.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And then finally, you've eluded a couple of times on this -- once on this call and then in a prior call to potentially raising the dividend at some point in 2011. And I guess I'm wondering, A, like some other banks are willing to, are you willing to disclose what you think your Basel III based Tier 1 common ratio is? We'd be interested in that. And given that and your discussions with the regulators, what gives you confidence that you can raise the dividend this year?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We -- on the Basel what we have said is as each of the rules becomes effective at the end of this year, two in market-based risk rules and the end of next year at three. The day it becomes effective with no implementation timeframe we would have 8% or better in Tier 1 common under the then current rules. And so as you think about what we submit in these plans, you're submitting -- the standards of the current Basel I and the levels you have are in the things and we exceed those and then as we implement we exceed it.

And so we have confidence that what we've done with the balance sheet and how we manage the balance sheet has produced a lot of capital improvement for the year, and you can see on this slide earlier I mentioned in terms of Tier 1 improvement and things like that. So we put in the plans, the regulators are looking at them, as you know, with everybody else. We did not contemplate something early this year, it's in the back half of the year, it would be very modest.

But the idea is that it is consistent with the balance sheet, the operating earnings, the work we've done this year to build Tier 1 common and -- the Tier 1 common ratio from up 8.5 -- 8.6 this quarter. We feel confident we've got it. Now we've still got to get through the approval and this was a bigger issue for us three, four, five quarters ago, but we cleaned up the balance sheet and restored the capital ratios to a point where it's pretty sizable.

And embedded in all that is all the operating statistics and adverse scenarios and everything you've heard about. So we feel confident that we've asked for it, we'll see what happens with the regulators, but it's because we've done a lot of hard work in 2010, selling businesses, repositioning the franchise to get us there.

ED NAJARIAN: And just can you tell me one more time, the 8% by the end of 2011, can you just -- what was that again?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The idea -- what we said is that as each of the rules becomes effective, remember there's more than just Basel III, there is Basel II (inaudible) the Basel II rules, the market-based risk rules and then the Basel III. As each of them becomes effective our Tier 1 common ratio under the rules as they become effective with no phase-in period would be above 800 basis points.

ED NAJARIAN: Oh, I see. Thank you, that's helpful.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Yes, hi, I'm trying to navigate between page 20 and page 38. And when you put a number like $7 billion to $10 billion out there it's just kind of natural to ask how did you come up with that? And so I'm wondering is the concept behind it that your risk is primarily in the bucket that's less than 13 payments? And I mean that $7 billion to $10 billion would be like about a quarter to one-third of that amount there? Is that the guiding operating assumption behind that $7 billion to $10 billion.

CHUCK NOSKI: Chris, unfortunately the math is a bit more complex than that. So I don't know if we have an answer. Certainly it would be reasonable to think that the fewer payments that get made before a loan goes into default would suggest a higher level of risk. I'd also refer you to page 21 because, as we did our array of different scenarios and looked at a set of assumptions -- and again, these were guesses because we don't have any experience.

But if you look at some of these significant differences between GSE and private label reps and warranty rights, we tried to make different judgments around some of the criteria that you see on page 21 to try to get a sense of what -- because those are important leverage points, materiality, causation, disclosure, the rights to actually make claim presentations and the like.

These are all pretty significant hurdles in our view and you've got to make some judgments about whether or not private label investors can aggregate and actually achieve and overcome those hurdles. And then you have to think about the performance and the characteristics of the portfolio on page 38.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And then going back to page 18, if you look at the new claim trends in the lower left, I noticed that there's an uptick in the pre-2005 claims and then the 2005 claims and the 2006 claims. And so it's early kind of pre-crisis vintages that seem to be ticking up. And is that -- A, is that a trend? And B, is that driven by the private label and monoline claims -- I assume?

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes, it's the private label claims that we have mentioned here. I'm not sure one quarter drives a trend, Chris. I think you need to appreciate, certainly we've seen this with both the monolines and the GSEs, is that they don't follow -- they don't tend to follow a chronological order. So you and I might think first they'll do pre-2005, then they do 2005, then 2006 and 2007.

That hasn't been our experience. We've had new claim submissions kind of all over the map. And so it's certainly something we're watching, but it's -- this is certainly impacted in the quarter by the claims that are described in footnote 1 at the bottom of page 18.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yes, Chris, and in the commentary too, [1.9], that gives you some color as well.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And then just a little net -- or a question. I noticed in the supplement, page 25, mortgage production revenue is up from $70 billion to $81 billion, but production income was down. Is there a story behind that?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yes, Chris, we book it when we lock the loan and the production is driven by the funding and that's just the difference. So production without the actual locked loans were down.

CHUCK NOSKI: And margins as well, as rates came up and we thought about how to be competitive. And frankly, Chris, we're not driving for market share in this business, we're driving for solid risk management and good profitable performance.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Nomura.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA: Thanks very much. So I hear you on the production revenue being booked when you lock the loan. Can you give us an idea of how much of the pipeline you got through between late third quarter and early fourth quarter? I guess the industry in general is down to about 40% looking for first quarter, is that in the ballpark of right?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We'll get back with you, Glenn, I don't -- we don't have the number.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, no worries. And then I noticed that there's high resi mortgages held on the balance sheet. Is that a trend we expect to continue or is that just a temporary -- securitization marks aren't great, a little balance sheet growth, a little room as capital grows?

CHUCK NOSKI: I would say, Glenn, it's driven more by liquidity and the balance sheet management interest-rate risk management activities in our discretionary portfolio. So I -- not necessarily view that as a trend. I mean we do look at liquidity and rates and the like.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: And if you look at core (inaudible) just in terms of the core activity, Glenn, that $18 billion, which includes the resi which is on the balance sheet, would be a $3.4 billion net increase if you just took the residentials out of the whole discussion in the corner.

So the core portfolio of consumers stabilizes, as we said, and continues to move forward. And residential is more discretionary as to what we do on a given day holding it. Except in our private banking and other areas where we hold those clients' loans because -- and we've always done it.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, that makes sense. One more nitty-gritty. On the average balance sheet on 9 in the supplement. The yield on debt securities, first of all the book went up and the yield went up a lot, all things considered given the environment, it's up 36 basis points. I'm just curious, is that just taking a little duration risk as you had a spike up in the 10-year?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We can get back to you, but we're not taking any different duration risk than we've done all year. So I think it's probably just we'll get back to you with the exact answer.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, and I'm not sure if you disclosed it, but have you ever disclosed the average duration on the securities portfolio?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I think we gave you a pretty broad description in the 10-K, Glenn, but I think from quarter to quarter -- or quarter to quarter we don't.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Our strategy during the year is to keep it relatively -- it's four and a half years.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yes, I think it's four to five years.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, appreciate that. And last one is just a follow up on your comments on the repricing efforts across the deposit franchise. You had mentioned a couple of states up-front and then over the next three to four quarters roll throughout the rest of the platform. What things, I mean this might be a simple question, but what things will you monitor to know if it's working. Or is this charging ahead and plan being put in place or do you watch for leakage and things like that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We monitor the customer reactions to the price points and the various things. I would say that the philosophy of the account structure, the five or six core accounts I don't think will change. It will be what the account balanced minimums or the price point on a particular element.

So as you think about it, think about it as a relentless push to get through and redo everything. The question of whether you pay $9 a month if you want paper statements or $8 a month is the kind of thing we'll test in that. So it's just more the price points around the structure than the acceptance.

Now, remember one of those accounts in the structure is the [fee] account which is 35% to 40% of the sales today has been in the market fully in all the states now for six months or eight months and is very well received. Especially among the obvious people you'd point to, Glenn, the younger people, people who are particularly happy to use the stellar online platform we have, chat, text, the whole 90 yards.

GLENN SCHORR: Great, I appreciate all the answers. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. The possible upper range of $7 billion to $10 billion, is that before or after tax?

CHUCK NOSKI: Before.

MIKE MAYO: So, after tax would be maybe $0.45 to $0.65 hit to book value?

CHUCK NOSKI: Well, our statutory tax rate including state taxes is say 37%.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, no, what I was referring to -- that's helpful, but -- so if we think about it on a book value basis, I mean this might hurt -- give 10 billion shares. Just take 37% of the $7 billion to $10 billion, divided by 10 billion shares would be a hit of around $0.45 to $0.65 to book value to clean up the issue. I just want to make sure I understand what you're saying.

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes, I think the thing to think about, Glenn, again, we think this is a possible range. We're trying to respond to some investor concerns about given the broad range of estimates that are out there, we tried to bring some color to that. Again, we think this happens over a number of years in terms of the resolution of this.

But that's -- I mean, I'm not going to dispute your math given that it's a pre-tax number, it's after our accruals, we think it's going to occur over a number of years. We don't have a view as to where we will fall in that range. As I said, it's probably more than zero, that's why we expect that some level of future provisions, we'll have to see. And we just don't have enough experience in the portfolio to try to estimate any more precisely than that.

MIKE MAYO: Yes. No, it's Mike, by the way. And can you confirm that this is tax-deductible?

CHUCK NOSKI: Excuse me?

MIKE MAYO: Are these costs tax deductible?

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And then if you could elaborate on the statement, "the fewer payments made before default the higher level of risk". So in other words you said 58% of the non-GSE loans that defaulted made at least 25 payments. I just would like to understand the significance of that a little more.

CHUCK NOSKI: The only comment is, I mean this is a very rough assessment, is that you would imagine, to the extent that there are fewer and fewer payments between origination and default, might suggest that those are -- those might be areas of particular risk when it comes to reps and warranties. I wouldn't read anything more into the statement than that, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: And then sticking to the same topic, Bank of York, on their conference call, they said that this is likely to be resolved in the next few weeks. Either it's settled, there's increased oversight over you I suppose, or that, an extreme scenario, the servicer would be replaced. Do you agree with those scenarios and what's the timeline?

CHUCK NOSKI: We don't have any idea what they said.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And then separate topic. Compensation was up 5% linked-quarter and you didn't highlight any one-time items on page 10. Is there anything unusual there, seasonal? It seemed like a big comp quarter given the revenues.

CHUCK NOSKI: Well remember, there was fourth-quarter severance and some benefits adjustments across the whole associate population just from an accounting standpoint. In terms of -- in terms of the comp to revenue statistic for the investment banks that people like to focus on, we ended the year kind of in the mid-30s, I think probably 37%.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: And then also the [GUM] revenues were up quarter to quarter and that drives it too.

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes. And of course remember with GUM, those are our financial advisors, they operate and get paid on a grid basis. And so as they have a more and more successful year during the year, they move to different measures in that grid that will reward them for volume.

MIKE MAYO: And then last question. What was the actual loan utilization numbers third quarter to fourth quarter? And how much did the increase in loan syndications linked-quarter contribute to your loan growth? And just a little more color behind your comment, Brian, that you thought things were kind of picking up some.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: In the middle -- I gave you the number for the middle-market book, Mike, and it was around 31% in a stable third quarter and fourth quarter. That's not -- in the large corporate book you have of things that you could hold a loan and then sell it down and things like that, the middle-market book just doesn't have that. This is loans that (inaudible) the Company from $2 million of revenue was up to $1 billion. So it's more core activity.

But if you separate all that out, what we're really seeing is for the -- in the November -- October/November/December time frame versus the last eight quarters you are starting to see activity start to move forward and get -- grow a little bit here and there and we have real estate coming out of some of these books and stuff.

So the activity is 31% stable, the activity in the core middle-market I don't think is affected by that. That would be more in our large corporate book than would be in the -- than would be in the GCIB segment under [GBAM]. And so this is sort of -- this is just core activity, Mike, it's not -- and believe me, it's not robust and growing at ex-percent, it's stable and moving forward a little bit which is better than it has been in a while.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Meredith Whitney, Meredith Whitney Advisory Group.

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY GROUP: Good morning. If you'd indulge me in a few questions, please. My first is to Brian. As there is so much movement and so much really structural change in so many of your businesses, could you talk about your budgeting of talent and head count?

So the last couple of years you've moved people into the collection efforts and the foreclosure restructuring modification efforts. As credit quality starts to improve where do you move those people? As it looks like US FIC is under a structural change and so much of European FIC is under structural change, where do you move those people? Can you talk about that on a one to three year outlook, please?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So taking the basic businesses we operate outside of the United States first which would be the global wealth management business and the global corporate investment banking and the global markets business. In Asia, Latin America and Africa and EMEA we have grown headcount by 1,000 and overall headcount is flat in our GCIB and our GBAM, the global banking market space, to give you a sense. So I'd expect those trends to continue.

So we're always adding new talent out of the business schools and we hired a robust class of business schools and undergraduates that we always do, Meredith. But what we're doing is shifting the talent to where the bigger growth opportunity is while still maintaining our leading presence in the United States in a lot of those categories. So, that is a trend I think would continue.

And in the context that Tom has in the third quarter, late fourth quarter went through a round -- a series of headcount reductions overall and then we're adding people back. If you think about our risk management organization for example, we've had also to grow that outside the United States to help make sure we monitor the risk and manage that business well.

When you go into GWIM, the answer is pretty clear that we want to grow our financial advisor account and our Wealth Management banker account and our private banker account and we've done that by 500 to 600 people this year. And you should expect that to continue. And I honestly would say that that growth rate this year was somewhat disappointing to me.

Not from an expense budget, but from the growth of the franchise we'd expect that number to be stronger and we've seen attrition is at an all-time low and our recruiting efforts are picking up, but we need to grow that because our biggest opportunity inside the United States is around the Wealth Management space, even though we've got $4.3 billion of revenues, the next nearest competitor might be $1 billion below that.

If you look at commercial banking, stable, you look at the consumer business generally, we continue to manage down the headcount in the card business as the credit has gotten better. In the deposits business I'd expect it to continue to come down going to the question earlier about sort of structural change.

And then at the mortgage, you're running 55,000 people and I think the business -- three years out assume this is all behind us type of thing -- is a 30,000, 35,000 person business. And maybe very robust production higher than that. But it's a different side. And it's just going to take us time to get through it. I think that covered each of the businesses.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, great. Thank you. And then just a couple of cleanup questions. On the put-back risk, which you've well detailed, what about the underwriter risk? So we have the GSE risk, we have the private-label risk, the monoline risk, what about the underwriter risk? Can you comment on that and how you would reserve towards that?

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes, we really don't see that as a significant risk, Meredith.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. And then two more clarifications. On the -- moving from a four deposit base system to a one deposit base system, what's the timetable there? And then I assume you need to run redundant systems so it's more expensive to become ultimately less expensive?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: That would be the goal is to be more expensive and less expensive. But also we have products that frankly aren't available in parts of our franchise just because of all the things that have been going on, we're now at the point we can actually do this. The planning is it's part of the expenses in the latter part of the year and the deposits business has been to start the work. It takes -- it's an 18-month process, so it would occur in 2011 and then in 2012.

But there is absolutely an expense and a simplification value to this, but the real value is one of the four systems is a system we operate in a lot of franchises and it works and that's been going on for about two or three years. But the real value of all of this is to actually give 100% of our customers 100% of our product capabilities with absolute flow.

And that simplifies both our associate's life, our customer's life and also really unifies our franchise. So, there is both the cost takeout value, but there's really an enhanced value in terms of each time we develop a consumer change we have to do it four times.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, got it. And the last question is, Chuck, you went through a comment on your reserves and you mentioned that you adjusted your home price assumptions. From what to what, please?

CHUCK NOSKI: I think we'll have to get back to you on that one, Meredith. It was kind of a year-end assessment as it related to certain of our real estate portfolios. But we (multiple speakers).

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Oh, I meant overall on the price assumption.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: (multiple speakers). Yes, and the [03-03] adjustments and those types of adjustments are based on the same statistics you look at. We objectively tie them to Case-Shiller and other metrics and then adjust. And as those came out a little less than was expected in the last couple months we've adjusted them down. So it's not some internal forecast, these are adjusting based on the outside forecast.

CHUCK NOSKI: I mean, we can get you the numbers.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Oh, I've got them. All right, thanks. See you soon.

KEVIN STITT: One more question, thanks.

OPERATOR: David Hilder, Susquehanna.

DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: Good morning. Thanks very much, just a question. You mentioned that there was some litigation expense in the deposits business. And I was just kind of wondering what would give rise to that in that business.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The usual cases and stuff like that. So I think there's nothing in particular that we talk about externally. But we have a series of cases around all -- that everybody has around activities in there and this quarter we accrued for part of it.

DAVID HILDER: Okay. Thanks very much.

KEVIN STITT: Thanks, everyone.

OPERATOR: And this concludes today's teleconference. Have a great day. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | gcon : Consumer Affairs | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110204e71l000dy
  


 HD
 Q3  2010  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
16,070 words
   PD
19 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to Bank of America's third quarter earnings announcement conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session. Please note, this call may be recorded and I'll be standing by if you should need any assistance. It is now my pleasure to hand the call over to Kevin Stitt. Please go ahead.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Chuck Noski begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. And also joining us this morning, as he did last quarter, will be Neil Cotty, our Chief Accounting Officer. With that, let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning everyone. Thank you for joining. Today we're going to talk about the third quarter earnings results. Part of the documents as you see today are based on the conversations that we've had with many of you over the last few months. Especially, obviously the mortgage discussions that occurred over the last few weeks, so we tried to put some data in the package that will help frame some of those issues and we'll go through that.

As we told you many times, we committed that we would provide you additional data on our runoff portfolios, which we've done. Chuck will take you through some of the data on the reps and warranties, and I'll take you through some of the foreclosure discussion. We also included our preliminary Basel III view. In addition, we included information on what we're doing in the consumer franchise, including the outline of how we're trying to mitigate the impacts of various regulatory changes. We know these are key issues that are on your mind, and on our mind as shareholders in what our franchise faces.

So let's dive into the document. On page four you can see the headlines for the quarter. Excluding goodwill, the goodwill write-off, which Chuck will cover later, earnings were $3.1 billion, and that's consistent with the past few quarters. As a continued credit improvement has offset some of the impacts of low rates, higher rep and warranty costs, and other matters. As we look across the business units, just to frame how I think we did this quarter, let me hit them from a high level. I think Tom Montag and his team in Global Capital Markets had a nice recovery as the sales and trading revenue there increased to $4.5 billion. Once again, for the second quarter out of the last three, we made money every trading day.

We continue to hold the risk, the VAR relatively flat, and continue to drive that business off the core customer franchise it represents. When we move into Tom's corporate banking side and David Darnell's commercial banking side, the good news this quarter is we've seen stabilization in our C&I loan book. We had good investment banking results, and good Treasury management results. In our commercial customer side, the credit quality continues to improve across the board. Non-performing assets and all the credit statistics have decreased. The charge-offs are better, and even in CRE, we've seen those charge-offs fall pretty strongly over the past several quarters.

Sallie Krawcheck and the Global Wealth Investment Management Team had another solid quarter. This business is going through the transition in earnest. We sold First Republic this quarter. They converted millions of customer accounts and billions of customer balances, but all during the past few quarters, we've had continuous growth in financial advisors and wealth managers and private bankers through the period. You continue to see strong deposit capture, stable loan balances, and improving net customer flows over the last few quarters.

Let me get to our consumer businesses. Our card business continues to recover. Its net charge-offs continue to go down, as Joe and the team have worked hard to get that portfolio in shape. Interesting enough, this is the first quarter in many quarters where the actual yield on the portfolio exceeds the charge-off and that's a good sign as we move back to core profitability. Joe and the team also sold more cards in the United States this quarter than last quarter, and we're continuing to see a recovery in our origination capabilities.

As we move to Joe's deposit side, we continue to make good customer progress there. Our customer scores are up, our account closes are down. During the quarter, Joe and the team implemented some of the mitigation plans, the E-account, which as you know, it basically charges fees if customers don't use our lowest-cost delivery mechanisms. An ATM emergency cash which allows the customer to make the choice to withdraw cash in an emergency and pay an overdraft fee, and then other items, including new account structure, which I'll talk about later. These will ultimately mitigate the cost of regulatory reform over time.

In the mortgage area, it's interesting enough. There's been a lot of discussion about this business and I'm sure we'll talk a lot about it today, but we're continuing to make progress. The operating loss continues to move forward and Barbara and her team continue to make progress on driving that business back to profitability. The origination volumes have been strong in that business, and frankly, will only get stronger going forward as the market share and percent of the market, because as we went through integration we had to hold back volume because of our need to get the integration done. We've seen the delinquencies and charge-offs in the mortgage product stabilize also.

We're going to provide you a lot of data later in the presentation to help you assess the future cost from reps and warranties. But the one thing that we want to be clear is that when we look at the rep and warranty claims and the claims by the various investors, we're not going to put this behind us to make us feel good. We're protecting your money, we're protecting the shareholders' money, and we're going to make sure that we'll pay when due but not just do a settlement to move the matter behind us.

The thing I want to be clear about is how we're repositioning the Company. We started the year and said we would deliver a fortressed balance sheet from a Company that had a balance sheet that needed repair. We have increased the capital levels. We increased reserve coverage. We shed non-core activities.

This quarter, we continue to make good progress. Capital ratios are up, RWA was down. We have developed clarity on how we're going to manage through the Basel core changes, in addition, due to the fact that the capital levels in our industry are going to be higher, we have an intense focus on changeable book value per share growth and we continue to grow that this quarter. If you flip to page five, you can see how those figures roll out.

From the beginning of the year, our RWA is down $87 billion, and we've taken a snapshot from January 1st here, because the impact of 166, 167 we wanted to show you. The long-term debt, which is something we don't talk a lot about, is down $44 billion this year. We inherited a lot of high cost debt in the prior transactions that we took over the Company and we're restructuring that. Mark Lynn and the team under Chuck has done a good job. We think over the next several years, we can take that down by another $150 billion to $200 billion, which helps our margin.

You can see that the dollar amounts of tangible common, Tier 1 common and the ratios that resolve from that common are all going to increased during the year due to earnings, and importantly by our willingness and desire to streamline this franchise and remove capital from non-core and capital intensive activities. The asset quality improvements you can see are strong. You can see at the bottom of the page.

As you move to page six you can see the capital ratios. In discussions I've had earlier this year, we were clear with you we thought from a clear risk basis that this Company should run on 8.5 to 9% Tier 1 common ratio under the current Basel accords and a 5.5% to 6% tangible common ratio, and we thought we would get there by year end 2010. We've in fact hit those targets a quarter earlier, and we continue to work on them.

This discipline that got us there on these targets is what we're going to depend on to manage through the environment of Basel II, Basel III, the Fed market rules and Dodd-Frank, and the provisions thereof. What we've done gives us confidence that there's a lot of optimization left in this balance sheet. Simply put, there's a lot of work to do but there's a lot of areas to do it upon.

On slide seven, we want to make it clear how we view the current Basel III guidelines and the preliminary impacts it will have. You have to start from the beginning here. About the progress we made year-to-date in improving our Tier 1 common capital ratios and bringing down risk weighted assets. We do those efforts consistent with the customer-centered focus we've had to sell those low rated assets in the non-core equity stakes. Tier 1 common reached 8.5% at the end of this quarter, with $1.5 trillion in RWA.

By 2019, as you well know, we have to have a Tier 1 common ratio of 7% and also still to be decided are a couple big unanswered questions. First, what incremental capital we would need for systemically important and second what the rights of capital management, the ability to manage capital during the phase-in periods. Given that, under our assumptions our Tier 1 common is estimated to remain above 8% while we implement Basel II, the market risk rules, in 2011 and Basel III in 2012. The way we calculated assumes no phase-in period, and in fact there is going to be one.

So just to be clear on this, we simply took all the rules that are going to be applied in 2011, took all the rules that are going to be applied in 2012, assumed they're effective on the date that they became, and there's no phase-in framed in the provisions. What that will result in, is our reported numbers during those times will actually be higher than the 8% we're telling you, because that allows for the phase-in. The key assumption when you look at this, the key outcome is a decrease before we mitigate of about $600 billion in risk weighted assets. The mitigation we have will reduce that significantly by the end of 2012. And these activities are not core to driving this franchise. We laid out the activities in some of the bullet points on the page. They include running down loan portfolios which are the core to the franchise, exiting proprietary trading activities, reducing lower-rated assets in our trading book and our discretionary portfolio and other activities to reduce the positions that are subject to high capital charges including the benefits from counter party risk and CJI exposure as the derivatives go through exchanges.

Let me give you an example of a transaction that's been written about there. In the second quarter if you remember, we took a $700 million hit to do a [re-Remy] transaction because it would relieve under the Basel III rules, as fully implemented, nearly $100 billion of risk-weighted assets. That was a great trade in our sense, in that it put the issue behind us, increased the credit quality of our portfolio and obviously took a lot of future RWA risk away.

Post mitigation, after we do all this work, we estimate that the risk weighted assets would be up 25% from the $1.5 trillion we had at the end of September. When you go to the numerator side of Basel III, assuming no phase-in, you're going to have a capital reduction of $12 billion. As we can see here it's largely related to DTA. The mitigation we expect will be completed by year end 2012. There are aspects of what we're doing that will actually occur after that. And we are very comfortable that we'll accomplish mitigation by the year end 2012, and there are going to be future opportunities to continue to manage this during the periods through 2019. So with that, it gives us the confidence, given everything we know today and how we're operating this business that we won't have to raise additional capital through common stock issuance to meet the new capital guidelines.

With that review of Basel III, I wanted to just hit quickly on slide eight. We included some of the highlights from the customer franchise. We included some of those release. Suffice to say, the customer franchise continues to move forward and continues to make good progress across all the different businesses as I stated earlier.

We're going to move to page nine now. One of the questions that's come up in the customer discussion was what did we do on overdrafts and why do we do it? Some of you have raised with me whether we had the balance right between the customers and shareholders, were we too customer-friendly in terms of the decision we made? What we tried to do on page nine is to make it clear that we made a business decision last summer to repair customer franchise that was starting to leak customers badly.

Overdrafts on debit cards were in fact driving strong fee growth. But the customer result, as profiled widely, and as we saw in our franchise, was hurting our franchise industry and long-term would hurt our shareholders. The impact, the effects of the economy, the uses of debit cards and how people were using had an impact on customers that no one had envisioned. The trust scores in the industry was down. Bank of America's customer scores were down. We had opened in the year before, we implemented this change, we opened 10 million checking accounts and closed 10 million. The closures had been growing at an annual rate of 18%.

The complaints around debit charges and customer complaints around deposit were at an all-time high, and also, we knew that Reg E was coming. So as we looked ahead, we had to plan for that outcome. Most importantly, we had 80,000 people that work in Joe's group, that work with our customers every day to do a great job in our stores and our call centers. Those associates didn't feel that we were doing the right thing for the customer. The reality was 10% of our customers was paying 70% of the overdraft, over $1,000 per customer per year, and the model was breaking and needing fixing.

So what did our team do? You can see in the upper left hand box. We didn't stop overdrafts overall. What we stopped was unintentional small debit overdraft charge which was causing this churn, this customer dissatisfaction and complaints. Where a customer has a chance but a choice, or to check a recurring draft, initiating online payment, emergency ATM cash, they can make the choice, pay the fee and got the transaction completed.

What's happened since our actions? You can see in the upper right, the closure rates have dropped to 27%. So from a rise that was 18% per year, they've now dropped 27%. Customer scores have improved, complaint volumes are down, and deposits, and that allowed us to take out costs. Associate support on that gives us the right to ask associates to get deeper penetration out of the products. For people who overdraft, we're seeing interesting behavior, still early, but their account balances are higher and they're managing their cash better.

We've seen debit card turndowns about half the rate we thought they would do, i.e. when somebody swipes their card and can't complete their transaction. As we move ahead, mitigating the impact of regulatory reform are the core challenge for Joe and the consumer team. They've rolled out our new e-account. We are the low cost platform by everything we see out there. But they rolled out the e-account in an effort to drive those costs even lower. They implemented additional fees, which we think are fair.

The piloting as we speak of roll out of a new account structure, which will drive through the franchise in the next 12 months. They introduced the ATM emergency cash. An example of that is 50% of the customers actually accept the fee, but they make the provisional choice to do so. We're going to continue to monitor these initiatives. Do more work on pricing, more work on cost, more work on new products, so in the end the returns and deposits will get back to preregulatory change levels. If customers choices change, we'll revisit the decisions we made to make sure shareholders get the returns we need in this business.

Now I want to turn to one other consumer issue that I think is important. On the foreclosure area, as you know, we announced that we changed on slides 10 and 11, we changed and started to reinitiate foreclosures yesterday. Barbara Desoer and her team is going to take us three to five weeks to get through and actually get all the traditional states taken care of. The teams reviewing the data have not found information which was inaccurate, which would affect the plain facts of the foreclosure, i.e. the customer's delinquency, et cetera.

We continue to do all we can to avoid foreclosure. We continue to modify the loans whenever we can. We make sure we check and recheck those, if a person fits into those programs, to see if they can fit into any modification program before we start the foreclosure, our checking is checked by a third party. That being said, we have to get through this difficult work on foreclosures to help the real estate markets heal.

Just to give you some examples of what went on in the second quarter. When we foreclosed, foreclosure sales that took place in the second quarter, 33% of those properties are vacant. 80% had not made a payment for a year. The delinquency averaged 1.5 years for those customers, and reflected the very tough times that these consumers are going through, 50% were unemployed or lost their income.

So on the foreclosures, the key thing is we continue to do a lot of work. We fixed the affidavit signing problem, or we'll be fixing in very short order. We've begun to initiate the foreclosure process. But the broader context is this, that we need to get through the foreclosures, and restore the real estate business. This is not something -- this is something that's ahead of us, but it's not something we're not doing a lot of today.

During the second quarter, we transferred 40,000 houses from homeowner A to homeowner B through short sales and foreclosures that were actual transfers to people that were happy to have the home and living in it, and so our job is to continue to help heal this process on behalf of the American consumer and behalf of the real estate markets. With that, I'm going to turn it over to Chuck to take you through the numbers.

CHUCK NOSKI, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian. Good morning everyone. As you can see on slide 12, excluding the goodwill impairment charge, we earned $0.27 a share in the third quarter. Revenue was down $2.5 billion on an FTE basis from the second quarter, which included the positive impact from a handful of items. This quarter, we saw nice rebound in capital markets, strong investment banking, and higher mortgage banking revenue that were offset by lower net interest income, which was down as anticipated. Credit quality continued to improve, with provision expense dropping $2.7 billion from the second quarter, reflecting lower charge-offs and a decrease in reserve levels. Our income tax expense was approximately 31% this quarter, after excluding the goodwill impact, which doesn't get a tax benefit.

On slide 13, we have identified some of the larger items having both positive and negative impacts on results for the quarter. As you already know, the goodwill impairment in Global Card Services was $10.4 billion. Loan loss reserves were reduced by $1.8 billion versus a reduction of $1.5 billion last quarter. We also recorded a $592 million reserve for exposure related to industry-wide sales practices in the UK, involving payment protection insurance claims on consumer loan products. Litigation expense across all of our businesses this quarter was up $380 million.

Income tax expense includes a charge of approximately $400 million that we highlighted last quarter related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets as a result of the July enactment of a 1% reduction in the UK corporate tax rate. We also had $883 million in security gains during the quarter. As you recall, this compares to $37 million in the second quarter, which included a $711 million loss on securities sold to reduce certain lower rated positions that flowed through securities gains in the second quarter.

The credit mark on structured liabilities under the fair value option resulted in a negative mark of $190 million, compared to a positive mark of $1.2 billion in the second quarter, and is reported in other income. Impacting our tangible capital and total risk based capital but not Tier 1 capital or earnings was the increase in the carrying value of our CCB investment through OCI since we are within 12 months of the expiration on sales restrictions. That investment was written up $9.8 billion, or $6.2 billion after tax. As a result of the sale of First Republic, $17 billion of loans and $18 billion of deposits came off the balance sheet on July 1, reducing net interest income by approximately $230 million in the third quarter. Sale of Santander Mexico closed in late September, and was carried on the balance sheet at $2.6 billion.

Let's turn to slide 14 and discuss the details around the goodwill charge of $10.4 billion. Based upon our current interpretation of the Durbin amendment, which has not changed from when we last spoke with you in July, the interchange revenue reported in our Global Card Services segment going forward will be significantly impacted. The charge to goodwill slightly exceeds the estimated range we announced in July because we refined certain model assumptions. While it represents approximately 50% of the goodwill carried in the card services segment, it is 25% of book value, roughly $40 billion down to $30 billion.

It's important to note that goodwill impairment testing is done on a segment basis, not on a Company total basis. Because some mitigation activities will mostly benefit other business segments, mainly the deposit segment, these activities were not included in determining the impairment in the card services goodwill. On that point and echoing Brian's earlier comments, we continue to be diligent in how we are repositioning the consumer bank for future success, given Durbin and other headwinds. We believe we can mitigate a good portion of the lost revenue across our retail businesses by offering new and attractive customer solutions based on our understanding of the customer, and offering straightforward choices for how they want to do business with us. Over the next several months, we'll be piloting new products, pricing deposits and accounts differently, as well as incenting the customer to do more business with us.

Since Brian gave some color around our business segment performance already, let's skip slide 15 and move to slide 16. Net interest income on an FTE basis was $12.7 billion, down $480 million from the second quarter. Similar to what we saw in the second quarter, this trend was due to the impact of the low rate environment and lower loan levels, further impacted by the sale of First Republic Bank. During the quarter, the net interest yield of 2.72% decreased 5 basis points due mainly to a shift in the mix of earnings assets as higher yielding assets were replaced with lower yielding assets.

Our average balance sheet for the quarter was down $119 billion, reflecting decreases in average loans and cash reserves held with the Fed. Cash declined due to a shift in liquidity mix from cash to liquid securities. Consumer loans were down, due to paydowns as well as charge-offs and weak demand. However, commercial loan demand stabilized in the second half of the quarter, and as we said earlier, commercial loans less real estate ended the quarter up 1% from the prior quarter.

We expect these trends to continue over the next few quarters, but to diminish as loans and yields begin to stabilize. While we have little control over rates and customer demand, we plan to offset these impacts through reductions of long-term debt. Our mergers with Merrill Lynch and Countrywide resulted in a larger long-term debt footprint than what we think is ideal. Consequently over the next few years we will allow long-term debt levels to decline through maturities. We believe we can lower our long-term debt footprint by 15% to 20% by the end of 2011. On slide 17, we show the trends in loan levels and yields as well as deposit level and rates paid for the past three quarters. Since the second quarter, while consumer loan yields have dropped 5 basis points, we've been able to drop rates paid by 3 basis points. Excluding First Republic, deposits are flat with the second quarter, but up nicely from the first quarter, driven by our wealth management customers and commercial customers.

On slide 18 we have listed the portfolios where we expect to experience further loan runoff. The sale of First Republic was effective July 1 and drove much of the decrease in levels from the second quarter. Out of the total expected run off of approximately $132 billion at the end of September, I don't think any of the areas should be of much of a surprise. Going forward, we'll continue to provide this information so that you can differentiate between real growth and expected loan runoff. For instance this quarter, excluding the runoff portfolios and net charge-offs, we had period-end loan growth of approximately $9 billion, which we detail for you on slide 19. As you can see on 19, after adjusting for the runoff portfolios and net charge-offs, we had period end net loan growth in the quarter of approximately $10 billion of consumer, $4 billion of C&I and a decrease in commercial real estate of $5 billion. Card revenue on slide 20 has been somewhat flat over the past three quarters, reflecting the bulk of the impact from the CARD Act. Total interchange is down 5% from the second quarter, but still up 6% from a year ago, on a managed basis due to high consumer spending. On slide 21, we show service charges were down from second quarter levels to $2.2 billion. Driving the decrease was the impact of Reg E, which became effective in July for new customers and August for existing customers. We're estimating overall service charges in the fourth quarter to be about $2 billion, which we estimate fully reflects the impact of Reg E.

Mortgage banking revenue on slide 22 increased from the second quarter as a result of higher production income including lower reps and warranties expense. Although the MSR hedge was effective in the quarter, MSR performance net of hedges was lower than the prior quarter. Production volume in the first mortgage was flat with the second quarter at $72 billion, but we experienced higher production margins. The capitalization rate for the consumer mortgage MSR asset ended the quarter at 73 basis points, versus 86 basis points in the second quarter. Given the level of mortgage interest rates over the past few weeks, we would expect production levels to remain in line with the third quarter.

Turning to slide 23, you can see the total reps and warranties expense in the quarter was $872 million, down from the $1.2 billion in the prior quarter. The reserve increased approximately $0.5 billion to $4.4 billion. Our unresolved repurchase requests total approximately $12.9 billion, of which $6.8 billion or 53% are from the GSEs. There have been a number of questions raised about the reps and warranties exposure that exists across the industry and specifically at Bank of America. We've addressed this topic in the past in both our Forms 10-K and 10-Q and our prior earnings calls, but given the level of discussion, we thought it made sense to try to lay out the components for you today.

First, let's consider the exposures we have with loans sold to the GSE. Both legacy Bank of America and legacy Countrywide have a long history with each of the GSEs. While the environment around repurchases continues to be challenging, we strive to maintain constructive relationships with the GSEs. Our experience with them continues to evolve, but generally once the facts surrounding a particular loan are fully developed, we usually have been able to reach agreement whether we, as the originator, are obligated to repurchase the loan or indemnify the GSE for the related loss.

That is not to say that we never have disputes. We do. But generally they are in those areas creating the most controversy in the most difficult vintages such as reasonableness of stated income, occupancy and undisclosed liabilities. To give you a feel for the experience that we have with the GSEs, let me offer a few statistics, as you can see on slide 24. From 2004 through 2008, legacy Bank of America and legacy Countrywide have sold approximately $1.2 trillion of loans to the GSEs. Through September, we received approximately $18 billion in repurchase claims associated with that population, representing only 1.5% of the total loans sold to them.

We've been able to successfully resolve $11.4 billion of these claims to date, with a net loss experience of approximately 22% or roughly $2.5 billion. The level of repurchase claims from the GSEs has been elevated for the last few quarters, driving the outstanding repurchase claims up as it takes time to work loans through the claims process. Our reserve for the GSE reps and warranties exposure at September 30th is computed to cover both the existing pipeline of claims and projection of future claims we might receive on loans that have already defaulted and on future defaults predicted by our loss forecast models.

When we compute our reserve for GSE-related exposures, we take into account our experience with them in working through these repurchase claims. So the repurchase experience I mentioned earlier on a base of $11.4 billion in claims, along with current developments, gives us a good data set to project future experience. In fact, one of the drivers of our provision this quarter is an expectation that our repurchase rate with the GSEs will increase. Based on our current models, we believe we have already received more than two-thirds of expected repurchase claims from the GSEs for loans originated in the 2004 to 2008 vintages. Although our experience with the GSEs could change in the future, we believe our predictive repurchase models, utilizing our historical repurchase experience with the GSEs and projections of future defaults leads to us to the appropriate reserve amounts for the exposures we have in this sold loan portfolio as we execute repurchases on a loan by loan basis.

The next category of exposure is loans sold into private label securitizations where the bond holders have some amount of protection from losses through insurance written by mono line insurers. I think it's important to understand that each of these reps and warranties counter parties has different contractual rights and experience with us, and as such, experience from one should not necessarily be extrapolated to another.

The mono line insurers wrote protection for securitizations of both first and second lien transactions on legacy Countrywide loans included in securitization vehicles. In total, approximately $160 billion of loans were sold into these mono line wrapped securitizations including $73 billion of first lien mortgages and $87 billion of second lien mortgages. Of these balances, approximately one-third of the first lien mortgages and 60% of the second lien mortgages have paid off as of September 30th.

In addition, of the first liens sold, we estimate $38 billion were sold as whole loans to other institutions, which subsequently included these loans with those of other originators in private label securitization deals, in which the mono lines typically insured one or more tranches. Through September we received $4.8 billion of reps and warranty claims related to the mono line insured deals of which $4.2 billion remains outstanding and approximately $550 million were repurchased. Of the $4.2 billion still outstanding, we have completed our review on $2.7 billion, and declined the repurchase based on our assessment of whether a material breach exists, and we continue to look at the remaining $1.5 billion.

As we noted last quarter, we've had limited engagement with most of the mono line insurers in the repurchase process which has meaningfully constrained our ability to resolve the open claims. Also, certain mono line insurers have instituted litigation against Countrywide and Bank of America which further constrains a normal business relationship. Without this engagement, we believe it is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate future repurchase experience and therefore the liability that may exist in connection with these securitizations.

However, there is a subset of the mono line universe that has engaged with us in the repurchase process. Although history with them is not as deep as the history we have with the GSEs, we do believe we can use that experience as a basis for computing a reserve on existing and future claims with this subset of counter parties and have done so.

The last category of potential reps and warranties exposure relates to loans either sold to whole loan investors or included in private label securitization transactions, in which we believe there is no participation by mono line insurers. Much has been written and speculated about in recent months regarding this exposure, with a good part of the discussion implying a high degree of correlation between losses and reps and warranties liability for the banks. We believe too little attention has been focused on some fundamental factors that call into question this linkage. For example, we believe many of the losses observed in these deals have been and continue to be driven by external factors like a substantial depreciation in home prices, persistently high unemployment and other economic trends, diminishing the likelihood that any loan defect, assuming one exists at all, was the cause of the loan's default. Bond holders and other market participants assume the market and disclosed credit risks of the mortgage securities they purchased, including the loans backing these securities. The expansion of underwriting standards over time, including higher loan to value ratios, lower FICOs, less loan documentations, and the fact that exceptions were made to underwriting guidelines were disclosed to market participants.

The length of time a loan performs prior to a default is an important consideration as well. We believe that the longer a loan performs, the less likely an underwriting reps and warranties breach would have had a material impact on the loan's performance or that a breach even exists. We believe these factors in addition to the fact that the contractual reps and warranties are less rigorous than those given to the GSEs make it difficult to extrapolate the experience with the GSEs over this population.

Here are some data points about this private investor universe, excluding those with monoline insurance. From 2004 to 2008, the total principal balance of loans sold in this category, mostly by legacy Countrywide, and to a lesser extent, Legacy Bank of America was approximately $750 billion, of which almost 40% has paid off. Through September this year, we received approximately $3.9 billion of reps and warranties claims related to this population and have resolved almost $2.9 billion. We have reviewed approximately half of the remaining $1 billion still outstanding, and have declined the repurchase based on our assessment of whether a material breach exists. Many of the claims that we have received so far are from whole loan investors.

As it relates to private label securities, the ultimate reps and warranties exposure requires that counter parties have the ability to both assert a claim and actually prove that a loan has an actionable defect under the applicable contracts. However, until we have a meaningful repurchase experience with these counter parties, we believe it is not possible to reasonably estimate this exposure. Just last week, a case against legacy Countrywide was dismissed due to the plaintiff's failure to comply with the contractual requirement of aggregating a minimum percentage of bond holder's voting rights necessary to direct the trustee to act.

More recently, in our capacity as the servicer on 115 private label security transactions, we received a letter from eight investors purportedly owning interest in those transactions. The letter asserts breaches of certain servicing obligations including an alleged failure to provide notice of breaches of reps and warranties. While we continue to review and assess the letter and have a number of questions about its content including whether these investors actually have standing to bring these claims, we continue to believe the servicer is in compliance with its servicing obligations. The 115 deals have an original and current principal balance of approximately $104 billion, and $46 billion respectively. We will continue to closely monitor the activities of this group and other developments.

Overall, where we have concluded that a valid basis for repurchase does not exist, we think it is important for investors to know that we will vigorously contest such claims and defend the interest of Bank of America shareholders. As for future provisions, as conditions change from period to period, this will have an impact on the level of required reserve and related provision. Also, as our experience with counter parties evolves, this too will have an impact on our reserve and provision. As a result, as we told you last quarter, we expect that the provision from quarter to quarter may be lumpy. In fact, if you look back over the past five quarters, as we've shown in the upper left hand corner of slide 23, you see the provision is variable, driven by the impact of specific developments from quarter to quarter.

With that, let me turn to slide 25. Investment and brokerage revenue was down 9% from second quarter due to lower asset management fees and lower brokerage income. Excluding the impact from the sale of the former Columbia Management long-term business, asset management fees are flat despite lower market valuations at the end of the second quarter and the absence of seasonal tax fees. Net client balances grew to more than $2.1 trillion during the quarter and we continue to see strong flows into long term asset management products.

Sales and trading revenue on slide 26 of $4.5 billion, which includes both net interest income and non-interest income increased approximately 42% from the second quarter, due to an improved trading environment particularly in our credit markets. Compared to the prior quarter, FIC revenue increased 52% to $3.5 billion, driven mainly by higher results in credit products as well as commodities and mortgages. Equity revenue was up 14%, due to the rebound in the markets, and marks on legacy assets within FIC resulted in gains of $264 million, versus losses of $179 million in the second quarter. Investment banking revenue on slide 27 increased 4% from the second quarter and was up 9% from levels a year ago. Results were driven by an increase in M&A and debt capital markets and our overall global fee ranking remains stable at a strong number two while we rank number one in the US.

Let me say a couple things about expense levels on slide 28. Total expense excluding the goodwill impairment charge decreased $437 million from last quarter. Expenses this quarter included higher litigation expense as I said earlier. Personnel expense compared to a year ago is up 10% reflecting the build-out of strategic hires in certain of our businesses including international as well as the higher level of headcount and expense at home loans and insurance related to default management staff and other loss mitigation activities. As we continue to adjust to a new regulatory environment, renew our focus on customers and invest in growth initiatives, we're watching expense levels closely, adjusting where necessary, and taking appropriate actions to achieve our longer term objectives.

Moving to asset quality on slide 29, let me comment on the trends we're seeing in credit quality. In short, credit quality is improving on most fronts and it's ironic that we talk so much about it when it is deteriorating but spend so little time on it when it turns positive. Both net charge-offs and delinquencies continue to improve, excluding FHA-insured loans. Net charge-offs of $7.2 billion decreased $2.4 billion compared to the second quarter. Consumer losses versus second quarter were down $2 billion, mainly in consumer card and consumer real estate. Commercial asset quality also improved as net charge-offs, reservable criticized and nonperforming levels all declined.

Turning to slide 30. The total allowance decreased $1.8 billion, through reductions in provision expense, reflecting improving credit performance. Even with this decline in reserve levels, the allowance for loan losses remained relatively stable at 4.7% versus the loan portfolio. As you can see on the slide, the current allowance coverage versus third quarter annualized net charge-offs remains very strong, and residential mortgage, home equity and commercial portfolios, even when you exclude the purchase credit impaired allowance. Since we believe credit trends will continue to improve, we expect continued reserve reduction over the next few quarters.

In summary, I realize remarks have been lengthy this morning but we had several issues we wanted to discuss with you. Excluding the goodwill impact, earnings demonstrated progress on several fronts. Credit quality continues to get better. Our capital continues to grow, and we believe we can manage through the Basel requirements. The mortgage situation has several facets, and we are addressing and managing all of them. With that, let's open it up for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). We will move first to the site of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein. Your line is open.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Yes, hi, good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning, John.

JOHN MCDONALD: Chuck, so I guess start on the reps and warranties. So it sounds like there are two areas where you indicated you might not have a reasonable basis for estimating potential claims, you mentioned the monolines that you're litigating with, and then some portion of the private securitization. Just wondering if I heard that correctly, and if so, how are you reserving for potential exposure in those areas?

CHUCK NOSKI: John, I do think you have that right. Appreciate that the experience that we've had with the monolines is a bit episodic, and in the case of the whole loan and private label securitizations, it's even less mature. And given the fact we don't have maturity in those experiences, other than the monolines we are dealing with, we have been recognizing the losses that we've paid on an as-incurred basis. If and when we get enough of an experience that we can actually make a rational estimate, we would then increase our reserves.

JOHN MCDONALD: You can't use your experience with the other monolines to kind of analogize to what you might experience on the others?

CHUCK NOSKI: John, it's very episodic. I'll give you an example. For example, one of the monolines that we're not dealing with regularly, not too long ago, sent us some number of thousands of mortgages. We had a third party look at those mortgages, and well less than 10% of those mortgages appeared to qualify for repurchase. It's just -- it's all over the map. We just don't have a mature enough population and experience to be able to make any statistically reasonable estimate.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Second thing was on the whole loan private piece on the bottom of page 24. It seems that $1 billion of approved repurchases on the base of $3.9 billion of requests, seems like a high success rate for the claimants, even though you indicated the reps and warranties are less vigorous, and causation is tougher to prove there. Am I reading that correctly, or can you comment on that?

CHUCK NOSKI: John, let me try to give you a little bit more color in that area. As you saw on chart 24, we said there was about $750 billion of loans sold, 40% of which have been paid back. Of that $750 billion, something approaching but less than 50% of those loans are basically jumbo prime loans, and so pretty good quality. And similarly, when you think about the $1 billion we did repurchase, in that particular limited set of [instances], I think our loss on that was about half of the repurchase amount.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Got it. The other thing on that one was, what about securitizations from legacy Merrill? You mentioned legacy Countrywide and legacy BAC. Are the Merrill securitizations in your legacy Bank of America, or is that not an area where we should think about exposure?

CHUCK NOSKI: It's really modest, John.

JOHN MCDONALD: Why is that, Chuck, how is it different there?

CHUCK NOSKI: No, I'm saying the dollar amount involved is quite modest.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So that's not in there, but not material enough to -- .

CHUCK NOSKI: John, it's in the table, on the upper right hand corner of table 23.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

CHUCK NOSKI: It's embedded in other.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it.

CHUCK NOSKI: It's just not a big number.

JOHN MCDONALD: One more thing on rep and warranty, just reconciling on the GSE side being two-thirds done in your estimate, with the idea that it looks like the pre-2004 claims are still growing. Is it the vintage analysis gives you the confidence that you may be two-thirds done on the GSE side, and how could that be if you're still seeing some 2004 growth?

CHUCK NOSKI: Well, remember, that says pre-2004. This is not a big number.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

CHUCK NOSKI: Again, all of the claim experience, all of the reporting that we're getting is cranked into our loan forecasting models, and again, roughly -- we're saying roughly two-thirds of it has been -- .

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Remember, John, those are gross dollar claims coming in, so that's $140 million of total dollars.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: That's not what we paid out. That's total dollars of unpaid principal balance coming in.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. It's small. Okay. That's great. One thing finally on the NIM, Chuck. Just when you consider your ability that you mentioned to lower funding costs in 2011, and then what you see on asset repricing, can you give some framing of where you see the NIM headed next year, or maybe just contextualize the smaller decline this quarter and how that might fold into next year?

CHUCK NOSKI: John, I think we see it flattening out. Obviously, there's different elements to the NIM. There's obviously the interest rates we collect from customers, there's our deposit pricing, and then there's also what we may be able to do with long-term debt.

JOHN MCDONALD: So more decline next quarter, or kind of flattening out next quarter in your best guess?

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We have a couple more quarters of reaching the flattening outs as we look forward, but it's the rate of decline is slowing, but we have a couple more quarters, middle of next year it should flatten out. And you can see, John, back on 43, we have the classic bubble charts there that you can see the different impacts based on different rate structures.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and is the pace of decline of this quarter more like what you would expect, then last quarter's where it dropped more?

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, great, thanks, guys.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: We'll move next to the site of Glenn Schorr with Nomura. Your line is open.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, NOMURA: Thanks very much. First of all, we appreciate all the detail on capital and everything else. It brings up a couple of questions on slide seven. On the mitigation, which I'm a believer in, you mentioned $65 billion potential free-up on exiting prop trading, and another $65 billion mitigation on reducing lower rated assets in the trading book. I know there's a multiplier effect here, but A, I didn't realize those two categories were that big. But I guess my question is on, what do you think of, or how should we think about what the revenue impact on those assets are? They strike me as higher ROA type assets, but just thoughts around that.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Tom and his team, he has a whole team dedicated to this, Glenn, that have been looking at the travel that's across the next several years, and so, let him get into all of the ins and outs of different categories. Think about that the total increase in size would have more than doubled the RWA through the various means. But when we said, okay, come back and run the business differently, he could peel off several hundred billion of the RWAs with basically $1 billion of revenue because we are still consolidating the systems at Merrill, and consolidating the positions. We are only on basel II for the second quarter now in parallel. There's a lot of optimization involved. And if you just look at our RWA as a percentage of our total assets, versus anybody else out there that has businesses that look somewhat similar, there's a lot of optimization as your models and the work you can do.

So think about us as being inefficient here because of the fact we took two portfolios and put it together. Then you have these new rules, which change the market based risk rules, especially change the ratings dramatically. And then you go to (inaudible) and you can actually pull out a lot, but not a lot of core revenue. I know that sounds surprising. But it's the multiplier effect of the future rules on certain types of categories that is the real efficient means of optimizing it as you go forward. In other words, prop trading today under the rules would not be that big an RWA, but it's a huge amount of the increase.

The example I gave you earlier, on the RMEC, just a very specific example. That would have been $20 billion of assets, round numbers, or something like that if I remember, Neil and Chuck, last quarter. It would have gone to $100 billion plus because of the multiplier effect of the new basel rules, and by taking it out, you save $8 billion of Tier 1 common, so it's an optimization around that. Not a lot of revenue involved. And also, activity which frankly is not core to the customer activity, which is the purpose of what we're trying to accomplish with the rules, and also the purpose of what we're trying to accomplish with the franchise.

GLENN SCHORR: Got it. I understand that. Are those assets -- should we think of them as in more of a natural runoff, or is somebody out there actually purchasing some of these less liquid or higher future RWA assets?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Let's put that in two categories. We've been running down our legacy asset pools, because we think it's in the best interest of even like the commercial real estate declines this quarter in part because we're pushing stuff off. But let me give you an example of a kind of asset class, which I think is something to think about. In our structured credit trading book, it's not wise for shareholders to sell it, but it runs off 2013, 2014, 2015 and will help a lot with mitigation as we move towards the end of this.

A lot of this stuff is rolling off that we sealed and stopped doing two years ago, or three years ago, frankly, as we get to 2010, third quarter here, that has a duration to it. So, most of this is naturally occurring, not marks. We don't have big losses to move this stuff because it just runs off.

GLENN SCHORR: Got it. Understood. And then just on the repricing side, maybe last question on the timing mismatches. I heard your comments on being able to recoup a lot of what gets lost with the new reg rules. What is the timing? Sounds like you're starting to, trying to incent the customer, as you put it, to bring in new business your way. What is the timing impact on when we can start seeing some of those revenues come back in? How quickly can you move the customer base that way?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think this is a multi-quarter and even multi-year work, Glenn, because first of all, Durbin doesn't take effect until next year third quarter. So, all the revenue on the debit interchange is here, the rules aren't clear. This is a relentless pursuit over quarters and 2011 and 2012 to get this position. I don't want -- this is not a snap your fingers, it happens overnight. This will take time. But importantly, you have to do it at the right pace with the customers, because what we don't want to do, watching competitors watching what we're doing is making sure that we're competitive, make sure we're doing it to preserve the franchise long-term, so this will take some time.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Appreciate all your answers. Thanks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thanks, Glenn.

OPERATOR: We'll move next to the site of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC. Your line is now open.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning, Nancy.

NANCY BUSH: Couple of questions here. Brian, could you just clarify where you are on this foreclosure review. I'm reading the slide here. The moratorium that you had in the judicial state is now off, but I see at the bottom of this slide, you say we'll not complete a foreclosure sale at this time. When do we get to that point, when you actually start selling foreclosed assets again?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we said, this sort of timed out with the statements that we put out yesterday, I think you should look at those in terms of timing. I thought we said that we'd begin putting affidavits back into process next week. And then, that's the judicial process. And then the judge looks at the papers, and takes you through. And then the nonjudicial states will take a few more weeks to complete the review. It begins next week, but it builds back up.

There's basically, if you step back from this, there's 1,000 people working on this. It's 100,000-some in the judicial states. It's not an amount of work we're not used to getting done, and then we'll turn to the non-judicial states. The actual refilings I think start next Monday, I thought we said.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, but this is about foreclosure sales versus spend until the assessment is complete. That doesn't mean you've completely backed off selling foreclosed homes.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Oh, no. We're selling REO. This is literally going through the actual step in the process, says the title changes from the homeowner to us, and that will start as the affidavits start to go through the system next week.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, and could you just sort of step back from -- this foreclosure issue, foreclosure moratorium got blown out basically in the last week or so, to a lot of other stuff. The fact that RMECs are not valid, that titles are not being conveyed properly in the RMEC process, et cetera, could you kind of give us your view of whether this is a big deal, not a big deal, not as big a deal as the press has presented, et cetera?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Here's what I'd say. I think when you're going through the issue of people losing their home, Nancy, there's going to be a lot of obstacles put up in front of that process by people wanting to keep their homes and people representing them, and we know that. But that's been going on for forever, frankly. And so I think on the affidavits, that some judges said, we want these done right, we went and did them. I'm sure there will be other issues raised. But as we look at the so-called [Mayors] issue, as we look at some of the other stuff that is raised, and I think you've seen a lot of people write on this and talk about it, we don't see the issues that people were worried about, quite frankly, but we're taking them very seriously We're making sure we're right.

For example, one of the issues was you needed to take title in your own name prior to foreclosure out of Mayors. And we've done that. That's been our policy. So there's nuances in how all these things play out. But I think you're right. I think the best way to think about it is, I don't think the technical issue is as big a deal. The issue of foreclosure is a big deal, and the issue is we have to get on with it because it will restore the health in the market.

And I think, the overstatement that this is all messed up, it's been going on for a while. We've been ramping up the people, us and the other servicers. There's been a big volume in transactions have gone through in the last quarter. It will get bigger over the next few quarters. But within three or four quarters, we'll peak and come down the other side in terms of this activity. It will still be elevated. And so I think it's a big issue because people are losing their homes, it's not a big issue for the (inaudible) and servicers.

NANCY BUSH: And just another quick question. On the implementation of the new retail strategy, are you having to do intensive training at the branch level on this, and are we going to see sort of additional training expenses, consultant expenses, et cetera, over the next few quarters if this gets ramped up?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I don't think so. I think we stabilized our headcount at the store level last year about this time because there have been a move out just to take the costs out, which didn't help in the whole equation. I talked about, we stabilized it, Joe stabilized the number of people, transaction volume moves the ATM, and things like that, that helps free up the time to do it. Our Customer Service, I think we fell behind the industry in terms of scores, but when you look at it at the branch level and the scores we get, we get very strong scores, the question is, has the overall brand had more damaging --. It's improving, and we'll continue to train people to do that, but it's not a big expense item. It's embedded in the amount of expenses we spend, and we're saving money on certain things and reinvesting in those things.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Looks like our next question will come from the site of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. I was hoping maybe you could talk for a minute about the card business. Three of the other large players that have reported had significant sequential improvement in revenue as credit was getting better because of less of a, I guess, claw back of interest and fees. Your revenue, the margin was up very slightly, but the dollars were kind of down. Any thoughts you could share in terms of the outlook there, and how we should be thinking about that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I'll give you a couple comments. I'll let Chuck fill in. In the overall issue, this is one that -- that's why I made the point about sort of the yield minus the charge-off. We have been bringing down, in a lot of portfolios that were not strong, and had revenue but also had charge-offs that were excessive. So as we're bringing that down, I think we're behind other people in finally stabilizing this, but we're closer to stability now than we have been. You're seeing the balances start to stabilize. The credit quality of what's coming on is very high. The credit quality of the portfolio is high.

Remember, we're still at a charge-off rate, 10%, round numbers. That has to get down to 5% or 6%, 5.5% level for this business to return to normalcy. So we still have work to do. We're worse than other people in these statistics. We lag them. We're catching up faster. As you look forward, you'll see this continue to improve in this area for us. Neil -- but the revenue is more because we've also taken the portfolio down because of the risk we want to take down.

NEIL COTTY, CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: I know, Brian, you said it best. I think you sort of, as was mentioned earlier in the speech, volumes, originations starting to improve. I think the portfolio starting to stabilize. Credit quality's improved. And you'll continue to see some release of loan reserves, but not to the extent you've seen in the past. I think we've seen -- the worst is over.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: I have a separate issue, and you touched on this a little bit at the beginning. A number of the banks, regional banks, smaller and larger, are reporting rates of opt-in on the point of sale overdraft that are fairly high, in some cases over 50%. Could you just address kind of that idea? I know you have some thoughts on that, and maybe how you kind of think about that part of the debit process as you go forward for your customers.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we've seen some of those reports, and as I said earlier, we continue to study this to make sure we didn't miss something on customer choice. We estimated that the levels of opt-in would be in the 30s, and made our judgment based on what it was worth or not. We've heard higher. We've heard lower. It's still early, too, Moshe, when you look at the actual data.

But the question is -- and so just as you think about that, ask the question what does opt-in mean. 40% of our customers take overdraft protection programs now on the new accounts we sold. There's a lot of things that go into that factor. I wouldn't get caught in all the ins and outs. We fundamentally would believe that if you opt somebody in to a transaction that they told you they don't like, and then they get hit with it, they come back and are fired up and mad, and then when you say, you told us you wanted to do it. That's a tricky execution.

And that's why we said, look, it's probably not worth it because it can probably just lead to more and more customer churn. And so that's why, on the point-of-sale debit, which is the most confusing to customers, we made the decision we made. I think there are other business models we see out there similar to what we're doing on the ATM, which is that we see out there an ability to do, as technology continues to improve, where you could say you're going to get turned down for this transaction, do you want to approve it and pay more of a convenience fee type? And we're looking at those types of models with not only ourselves, but also some of the card issuers and stuff on the theory that is $5 a more reasonable payment, $10 a more reasonable payment when you want to do something as opposed to $35.

What we tried to stop, and I think whether people opt in or not, the account churn in that part of our portfolio was so high, and people just burned themselves up over time. 10% were -- 70% of the revenue, but actually 3% had a high number of it, too. You start to look down at those types of customers. So we made the decision, we're trying to be clear with customers. But on the other hand, we think there are payment models that could evolve that says, maybe it's more of a convenience type fee, like an ATM convenience fee, where customers say, you know what, I just need to get this done. I'm willing to pay the fee to get it done.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: We'll move next to the site of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning.

MATT O'CONNOR: Just another follow-up I guess on the private label repurchase risk. I mean, I would guess, as you look out over the next few months, you'll start getting a little more clarity on what some of the risk might be. And as you think about trying to set up some sort of reserve, and get some of these issues behind you, is this something that we could expect looking forward next quarter, or do you think it's going to take a little bit longer?

CHUCK NOSKI: Well, as we've said, there's not much experience, not much activity in this private label space. I think, Matt, if you -- again, if you go back to slide 23, the upper left hand quadrant, you can see the kind of behavior that we've had for provisions. You can see the earlier periods where we didn't have events, and you can see in the later periods where we did have events, kind of gives you a sense of the scale of what our experience has been to date. And as we learn more, and again, our perspective on this, we're going to be quite diligent as I said in defending the interest of our shareholders. This really gets down to a loan by loan determination, and we have, we believe, the resources to deploy against that kind of a review.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think the way to think about this is, as you think about the toughest areas, origination and going back on the chart on 23, you can see that the 2007, 2006 vintages are producing the highest volumes, the 2008s much lower. We'll continue to work this through. Time is on your side because the activities have either occurred or not occurred, with three years past the last -- almost the last quarter of it being three years past the date of origination. But if you think about people who come back and say, I bought a Chevy Vega, but I want it to be a Mercedes with a 12-cylinder, we're not putting up with that. We will be very ardent to protect the shareholders' interest.

On the other hand, you guys -- we would love to never have to talk about this, but until we have a history accounting event, we can't put it behind us. We will diligently fight this. It has worked to our benefit. We have thousands of people willing to stand and look at every one of these loans. It's in your best interest and our best interest to be diligent about it. While we would love to put it behind us, and never talk about it again, the right answer is to fight for it. If we make a decision to settle with somebody, it's going to because it's in the right interest of the shareholders.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then separately, on page 18, where you detailed the loan run-off, I think that's very helpful. My guess is these portfolios in aggregate aren't generating that much, if any, profit because of the credit costs. As we think about just all the components, the revenue, the expenses, are there any details that you can provide us on those things for this $132 billion runoff book?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We'll take a look at trying to give you a charge-off. We just want to make sure we isolate them for you. Your instinct is not wrong in terms of the credit cost embedded in these portfolios, and that's why the credit costs are coming down as these run down. We'll take a look at whether we can give you a little more clarity on the charge-offs by portfolio.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, and also I think the revenue and expenses would be helpful.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes.

MATT O'CONNOR: Lastly, I think it was last month or the month before, you made some comments that you weren't reinvesting cash flow from your discretionary book, just because you didn't want to take much duration risk, which I think makes sense. But as we think about the discretionary book, the securities and mortgages swaps, I guess the total's going to be $400 billion or so, how should we think about that level over time?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think the way that we're going to run the balance sheet, it will be run to extract the value of the excess deposit position. That's what we do at the balance of book back. It is not another way to make money in this Company. And so, by and large, as loan demand picks up, it will probably come down as a percentage of the assets, and we are not -- we either are reinvesting in hedging it, so that we don't have loan rate risk, or not reinvesting, and we think that's the right answer. Even if you see growth in this, it's pretty much hedged off, as you said, and that's why you look at the bubble chart there's very little movement. Even in the basel III, we assume zero on the OCI risk, and we're working to manage the Company to protect that, but that is the outcome.

CHUCK NOSKI: And as we said, Matt, we're also looking to shrink the long-term debt footprint.

MATT O'CONNOR: That makes sense. Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: And we'll move next to the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning, Betsy.

CHUCK NOSKI: Good morning, Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Question, just a follow-up on page 18 with regard to the runoff loan portfolios. Can you just give us a sense as to what the estimated time of decay is for these portfolios, and if they differ from your core portfolio?

CHUCK NOSKI: Betsy, I think the way to think about this, if you look at the change over the quarter, and adjust it for the impact of First Republic, that's probably a good indicator of the pace of change.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We aren't doing anything to force these out, Betsy. These are running off naturally. I think Chuck's guidance is good.

CHUCK NOSKI: It's collection and charge-offs, that sort of thing.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. All right. But to the extent foreclosures ramp up, that would be, I would expect, more skewed towards this portfolio than your non-runoff portfolio, is that fair?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It could be. We'll get you some detail on that.

BETSY GRASECK: All right. Thanks.

OPERATOR: And we'll move next to the site of Ed Najarian with ISI Group. Your line is open.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Yes, good morning. It's Ed Najarian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning.

ED NAJARIAN: Yes, just a couple of quick questions. First, on back to the basel III analysis, it sounds like you're sort of implying that there's not a real good chance of any return of capital in 2012. Obviously, we have other banks talking about the return of capital, but I suspect that your outlook is that that's more of a 2013 or 2014 event. That would be the first question.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would not assume that. We have baked in this paying dividends and et cetera. But we have to make sure we understand the phase-in periods, and what the regulators are going to require on the capital management. But the way to think about that is, remember, I'm giving you the 8% as if things were fully phased in. We report higher numbers because, for example 2.5% is phased in over many years, the 2.5% over the 4.5%, so we'll be much higher than 7%.

The regulators have been clear that they understand from you as investors that there has to be a sharing of this as we build it up, and the idea was to build it up across time. I wouldn't assume that. We didn't mean to create that impression. But embedded in here is a reasonable dividend policy.

ED NAJARIAN: So you're saying I should not assume no return of capital? Excuse my double negative. Or maybe you're just saying no assumption on return of capital.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I'm saying, despite the fact that your grammar teacher might shoot me, I'm saying the first.

ED NAJARIAN: All right. Thanks. I guess the follow-up question would be, just looking at the $16.8 billion of operating expense run rate, it seems like there's some things in there that could come down over time in terms of potentially litigation or credit related costs, what have you. But you're also talking a lot about different types of investment spending, and things you're doing with new products, offsetting reg E, what have you. Could you provide us with any kind of an outlook on where you think that run rate goes, just over the next few quarters, or over the next 12 months?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think you have the exact trade off. We're trying to make sure we make -- let's take Tom Montag for example. He's building up against the opportunity outside the United States, and so we've talked a lot about hiring, but at the same time, we're managing the headcount inside the United States where he has number one market position in the capital markets fairly effectively, so we're having a rotation. Joe's a low cost producer. If you look at our cost as a percentage of deposits, and compare it to anybody you can get the information on, you'll find out we're very effective there in our cost paid for deposits, same as 39 basis points or whatever it was. That being said, we've also brought the branch count down by a couple of hundred, and he'll continue to do that.

At the same time, we want to get the conversions done of the northwest and California, and then that's going to take some investment. So, we're going to make these judgments, but I think the run rate we're at right now is kind of the run rate we are, and we don't see things that we need in the net to invest huge amounts of money. But we think that even though the earnings are not what we want, we think in the near term we have to make sure we take care of some things, so we have the benefits of rundowns and some of the work we've done on integration, but we have some build-up in some areas.

A dominant part of our cost structure in the near-term, from now looking forward over the next several quarters will be getting through the [HLMI] problems, and reducing the amount of people dedicated to the workout task dramatically, and some of the other businesses. I think we're going to have positive and negative pressures here, but we're trying to manage both the short-term aspects, being very disciplined, and I've asked Chuck to make sure that the overhead is coming down, and doing the things a CFO needs to do. At the same time, making sure we're making investments where we need to make them.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thanks. And just a quick follow-up on that. It looked like your level of revenue, trading revenue, investment banking revenue, and the I-Bank was a fairly normal quarter, always tough to predict, but were the incentive comp expenses around that number this quarter something that you would consider pretty normal as well, given that level of revenue?

CHUCK NOSKI: Yes, I think in the -- on a full year basis, it's probably in the mid to upper 30%'s.

NEIL COTTY: I mean, figure 38% to 39%, we've been doing based on performance, that's consistent with last quarter. You may get some noise from third quarter of last year versus third quarter of this year because we did a catch-up last year on the hot -- on the amount of deferral, we increased the percentage, so there will be some noise related to that, but pretty much a normal percentage accrual.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: And we'll move next to the site of Mike Mayo with CLSA. Your line is now open.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning, Mike.

CHUCK NOSKI: Good morning, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: Can you give some more color on why OREO declined by 10% linked quarter?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Mike, we'll get Kevin and those guys to get it to you. Chuck just looked at me, and said -- I mean, we're moving stuff out and we're doing the work, but we'll get you some details of where it came from, which portfolio.

MIKE MAYO: I guess the point is, the properties are moving on the back end, even if it was clogged some on the front end?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, not fast enough because we're still building inventories, but we are moving stuff out the back end at a better pace now. I think over the last three quarters on the consumer side, for example, we've moved up by 50% in terms of quarterly liquidation of properties that are on our books. Remember, a lot of the OREO in the consumer also goes back to the agencies to handle.

MIKE MAYO: And I know this question's been asked many times but, so why did provisions for reps and warranties decline 0.25 linked quarter when the outstanding claims, strictly related to the GSE side, increased?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Remember, last quarter we had a catch-up on some monolines and stuff that was different. So, there was I think $600 million, $700 million of, Neil, additional catch-up last quarter that wasn't there this quarter.

NEIL COTTY: Related to monolines. And Mike, if you looked at this quarter, the sort of additional amount over our historical numbers was related to a reassessment of the GSE obligation.

MIKE MAYO: I'm just trying to figure out what would be kind of a normal number going forward for this provision line?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you take out sort of the ups and downs, and look back, you can see $500 million-ish a quarter, I said that, Mike, on occasion, it's just going to be lumpy because as we (inaudible) we'll move something forward. And that may move stuff that would have occurred later on forward. These are looked at as like a portfolio. When we make an adjustment, it's not adjustment on what the claims we received in. It's on the exposure that we see on the whole portfolio, if we have a basis to make it.

If you look at sort of the resolution type of thing, and look back across the quarters we gave you, it's $0.5 billion, $0.5 billion, $0.5 billion, so those are the kind of numbers that would be more recurring. Last couple quarters we had some sort of significant movement in terms of catching up to some pieces. So the danger here is it could be lumpy. But on average, that's what we saw.

MIKE MAYO: How many years do you think that this provision expense might be incurred? I know there's a lot of uncertainty. Like another year, three years, five years, longer.

CHUCK NOSKI: Obviously, Mike, it depends upon experience. We certainly think it's going to be pretty active the next couple years or so.

NEIL COTTY: Again, the GSEs we do life of loan is our reserve, and then a lot depends on where things go with the monolines and the private labels, which as Chuck said earlier, is very hard to predict. So we'll see how our experiences materialize over the next couple of quarters.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: But Mike, I'd be careful separating. The risk is relatively sealed in this, in terms of the vintages that have given rise to most of the claims. So the issue is how long the flight will take.

MIKE MAYO: On the GSE side?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: On all of them. In other words, the loans that are originated, you're saying it's origination defect, if you look at what's happened in 2008 and in 2009, there's just been very little activity. And the loan quality which changed the underwriting standards when we bought Countrywide, they'd already changed theirs. So that occurred in 2008. You're not seeing new activity created here from new originations of any magnitude. What I'm saying is the origination activity between 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, that's where the balances are. That is in the -- the decision -- the underwriting was done then, and now we're going to spend the next few years sort of fighting it through.

MIKE MAYO: I just want to understand this. Just to clarify, the new activity, though, is more people are coming to the window saying, I bought a Vega, I thought I would get a Vega, I want my money back.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The activity from the putbacks, but it relates to those periods and times of origination, as opposed to the new activity, new underwriting of loans is not producing any activity. So the pig and the snake is sealed off. Now the question is we just have to work it through, and that's going to take time.

MIKE MAYO: And then two other small questions. One, what was loan utilization for the quarter? I'm just trying to get a read for incremental loan demand, if there is any.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It was, in the C&I book and the revolvers, it was flattish quarter to quarter. We can get you the number. I always give the number in David's middle market book, which is lower than the overall number, so we'll get you the number. I think it was 38%, if I remember right, in commercial loan.

MIKE MAYO: So it is still around the all-time lows? So, loan demand is still kind of sluggish?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: What we've seen, I'd say, is that overall demand is still slow, but I'd say, as you look from first quarter to second quarter to third quarter, we've seen the loan balances stabilize, and demand from customers. It is not growing. We wouldn't say that. But it is stable.

MIKE MAYO: And then lastly -- sorry.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's just stronger this quarter than it was second quarter.

MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, would you consider any strategic actions to further boost capital? I know you said you would be above 8%, but you could do a little bit more by doing some other things. Would you consider those other things, such as Black Rock.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I'll let you speculate on what our ideas are. Thanks.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thanks.

KEVIN STITT: Thanks, Mike. One last question, please.

OPERATOR: Yes. Our last question comes from the site of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer. Your line is open.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Couple things. One is, I was wondering, can you comment on the monthly trend in the trading environment, and customer activity flows? As we come into September and October, do we find that normalizing at all, or are investors still kind of in the risk averse posture that they were in most of the summer?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I'd say it's better than the summer, but not normalized. It's still lower than we would like it to be, but it did improve, and the new Asian calendar got very active in terms of debt capital markets, especially, some equity stuff has come through. The IPOs we have on file are actually bigger than we even had in the Internet bubble timeframe. It's just a question of whether the equity markets support getting them out.

Our investment banking pipeline is a high-quality pipeline. 50% of the pipeline we think will close in the quarter, fourth quarter, we'll get the fees in the fourth quarter, and debt capital markets are not a major part of that obviously, because they come more episodically. I'd say the issuer side activity is pretty strong, especially around the ability to access debt capital. You're seeing some buyouts being done in the recent past here.

Our private equity clients are getting active, and visiting with them, many of them over the last several months. They are looking for deals. They're finding deals, and are actually striking deals, but I would say that when you go to the sort of core trading activity people, it's still lower than we thought but it's been improved during the course of the quarter from July, August to September it got better. And October I think has been reasonably the same.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, and then just one last time on the risk weighted assets, and you said you can drive those, or the mitigation efforts don't necessarily hit revenues that much. And I'm curious, is that because there's a big charge for the [introdealer] exposure, and is there a good way to net all that down, or what does the industry need to do to -- because everyone's talking about mitigation, and it's not totally clear what all the components of that are and why they don't impact revenues.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We are slightly different I think than other organizations in the sense that the basel II implementation is new and we're finding more ability to optimize in that. But most importantly, remember that we're only converting the Merrill systems this fall, in Tom Montag's business, so we've been able to manage the risk. We've had to manage it, the legacy risk on the system and all the risk being put on since the first part of 2009 has been going on the new system. But there's a book of legacy risk. As we bring those systems and put them both on the same system, we're able to manage them separate but we're also finding a lot of room to optimize and counterparty optimization. So there's not a -- as a team working on, as I said, this should not be as easy as it is. That's really shame on us. But the reality is we had two systems. We had to work through them. We had to get approvals for models and all the work you have to do, and we're basically doing it.

It won't be snap your fingers. But this is not as hard for us because frankly we just haven't had the chance to go through the optimization that it appears that other companies have gone through. Our RWA as a percent still runs 60%-plus. Other people run 50% and other numbers. And as we get into that, we'll figure that out.

The other thing is, don't forget, every quarter more of the legacy stuff, which is very highly weighted under the new rules, just keeps running off. This is work. This is hard work. Tom has a team that's working on it. He has a team that's dedicated to it.

But they were able to, comfortable they could mitigate a lot. Because these are positions we don't want, take auction rate securities, over the next several years, they'll run down dramatically, yet it's $10 billion a day. It was $12 billion or $13 billion at the beginning of the year So it's just one thing after another. Just hard work.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And then lastly, just I was kind of -- obviously, one of the other big banks put up a big litigation reserve, and you didn't, and I'm kind of curious why. And then also, you mentioned that most of the problems are in the 2006, 2007 vintages, obviously, and is there a statute of limitations on putting loans back and when does that kick in, if at all?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: You said last, and then you asked two more questions. But your last is -- your second one on -- there's no technical statute of limitations from a standpoint on the repurchase. But the fact that the loan has performed for 36 months or more, obviously a defect that said this was a problem with the origination, is getting a little hard to prove, especially on a no doc loan or something like that.

CHUCK NOSKI: The question on litigation expense, we actually don't compare ourselves to other companies as such. I know you folks do. I think every company's portfolio of litigation is different, and it comes at different times, and has different stages of progress. We're reserving for that, that we know about and we think we can estimate and understand that we would have exposure on. Can't really help you with what others are doing.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. Thank you.

CHUCK NOSKI: Thank you.

KEVIN STITT: One follow-up before leaving. Moshe, if you're still out there, on the card revenue line, it's flat, but remember we had a big gain in the second quarter for MasterCard of about $450 million, and we had the UK charge relative to some of the sales situation over there, and that's about $600 million. So we had a flip of $1.2 billion. If we hadn't had that, those two instances, we would have had revenue going up. And I thank everyone for joining us.

OPERATOR: And this does conclude today's teleconference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at any time, and have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i8150107 : Debit Cards | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcon : Consumer Affairs | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101102e6aj000b7
  


 HD
 Q2  2010  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
15,516 words
   PD
16 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to the Bank of America quarterly earnings announcement. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. Following our presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Please note this call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Kevin Stitt.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Chuck Noski begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results. And that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. Also joining us this morning will be Neil Cotty, our Chief Accounting Officer who served as our interim CFO, prior to Chuck arriving here, and Neil did much of the presentation last quarter. With that, let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning and thank all of you for joining us as we discuss our second quarter earnings. I welcome Chuck to his first call as CFO and as Kevin said Neil is with us.

Just to start us off here on slide four, but in general, I'm just going to give a couple points of my perspective on the quarter. We did make $3.1 billion in net income for the quarter, but importantly, with the earnings, we are continuing to move our core franchise forward. Our credit quality continues to improve, in some cases faster than we anticipated as we came into this year. As the management team and I put together the principles we're going to operate under to make sure that we can position this company now and in the future in the way it needs to be positioned, one of the principles we've been focused on is to continuing to strengthen our balance sheet. We strengthened our capital this quarter and the reserve coverage ratios, even with the release so we have a stronger balance sheet.

We all saw the teams continue to work through reductions in legacy positions, whether that's in commercial real estate, capital markets, the former Countrywide franchise, or some of the loan products and card services. Another principle that we've been focused on is narrowing the focus of our franchise, ensuring that every activity that we have at Bank of America is core to our core three customer bases, consumers, companies and institutional investors. Along with that lines, this quarter we sold our interest in Itau and Santander, Mexico.

We sold the MasterCard shares, we had and today we announced we're selling Balboa Insurance, consistent with this strategy. Additional principle that we've been managing to is to get ahead of the new capital requirements and we've been doing that this quarter by continuing to reduce positions, as some of the positions I just spoke about, and freeing up capital whenever we can to build our capital ratios in anticipation of the new BASL rules. In addition this quarter we also sold some private equity positions to help us in this regard.

Another principle is that we think that we as we look back at the cycle at what went right and what went wrong, we have to be much stronger risk managers. Go down, it was a nimble way in which Tom Montag, and Bruce Thompson and the team adjusted our trading positions, reducing the VAR and basically getting out of the way of the Euro crisis and sovereign debt crisis this quarter. So we made progress on this core operating principles, but as we look ahead we're well aware that the headwinds we're going to continue to face and we need to deal with and to produce the revenue and profits this company needs to produce. First, we continue to see an economy which our experts don't believe will be double dip. They think that's a low probability, but we see an economy that's going to grow in the 2.5% range in the second half, which continues to be below trend.

Unemployment will remain at high levels, and as we look at the consumer, we're seeing even though the consumer spending has been up consistently quarter on quarter, we're worried about slowing momentum as the year-over-year comparisons get harder as the second half of the year was strong for the consumer. And again, we continue to watch the housing market carefully and it stays in our focus. As we look on the loan demand side, it continues to remain weak as the consumers continue to delever. On the commercial side, the commercial customers remain conservative by holding large amounts of cash while awaiting signs of sustained demand for their products before they need capital growth.

Another area that is hitting our revenue and earnings is impact of sustained low rate environment on this core franchise. It continues to impact the net interest margin. Another major area, I'm sure you'll have lots of questions about this later, and Chuck will talk about the areas is the impact of new regulation, and as I look at the new regulation, a lot of people focus on the Dodd-Frank bill, but you've got to put it in the context of all the different things going on, whether it's the Reg E, the CARD Act and then the areas that will be affected by Dodd-Frank.

This will cause the most recent is the Durbin amendment in the interchange area, this is going to cause a significant reduction in revenue in the future and the carrying value change in our asset in the credit card business, and Chuck will address that later. As you think about the quarter, it's more noise than we would have liked but some of that is inevitable as we continue to reposition this company and as we continue to hit some turbulent markets that we did during this quarter. That said, we continue to make progress in positioning our Company now for the future.

On page five, you can see the progress we made in the various customer groups in our customer driven model. We told you and will continue to tell you in the way we're managing this franchise is to take advantage of these very strong businesses that have superior positions in every part, in every capability they bring to the customer. I'm not going to go through all the points in this page but I want to touch on a couple areas just to give you my perspective. Obviously, Joe Price's consumer team has the core challenge to adopt a retail banking model in the United States to the new consumer banking reality, to mitigate the lost revenue and adjust the operating cost to meet the return holes we have in that business.

In our home loans insurance business, it lost money this quarter, less than it lost last quarter. Sort of a tale of two cities. On the one hand our production was number one or two in a given month or quarter with 20% market share on the production side. At the same time, we're devoting a ton of effort and expense to working through defaults, short sales and modifications, and we're attempting to help every customer we can. In spite of all that hard work, we'll continue to see elevated foreclosures, short sales and other liquidations for the next several quarters as we clean up the legacy Countrywide portfolio.

Moving to the commercial side of the business, domestic commercial loan demand remains muted as companies continue to generate solid earnings and cash flow. But tell us that they are reluctant to expand, due to uncertainty they see in the future. Importantly, as the Company has a global commercial franchise, that does match that the companies in Asia and Latin America and companies in the US that do business in those markets are demanding capital, and our business wins especially in corporate investment banking area show that, and that's why we continue even during these times to invest in our international growth and global capital markets business and the global corporate investment banking business.

The third area I wanted to touch on is the sales and trading area. Tom Montag's team experienced a drop from a very, very strong first quarter. And however, we still over $1 billion in global banking markets. And the global markets segment produced about a third of those earnings. We continue to be impressed with growth in the investor-client activity that Tom and his team have seen in both the US and outside the US around the world, but this quarter couldn't fight the macro slowdown, the Euro debt issues, the sovereign debt issues, so we got out of the way.

Our investment banking team's performance continues to be very strong. It continues to improve on its number two ranking and is coming close to closing the gap to number one. So all in all, as you can see on slide five, we continue to make progress on our core customer segments. But the goal is not only perform well in each of these segments but to get the most from the entire segment group together.

So slide six is a slide I've shown you before. Shows some of the successes we've had this quarter, leveraging this franchise, especially between Sally Krawcheck's wealth management business, Joe Price's consumer business, and David Darnell and Tom Montag's commercial businesses. I'm not going to read all the numbers, but I will confirm to you and commit to you that we focus on these metrics every day and like the direction that they continue to head. The principle that we are focused on is not only do we need to get everything out of each of our businesses and their component parts but in order to provide the right service to the clients and the right return for the shareholders we've got to do more on the whole thing.

And with that, let me hand it over to Chuck to go over the first quarter's numbers.

CHARLES NOSKI, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. As you can see on slide seven, we reported net income of $3.1 billion, or $0.27 per share, versus $0.28 per share in the first quarter and earnings of $0.33 per share in the second quarter a year ago. Credit quality continued to improve with credit costs dropping $1.7 billion from the first quarter to $8.1 billion. This quarter had several large items having both positive and negative impacts on earnings. But we think results are representative of the challenging economy and difficult rate environment as we continue to bring down risk and position the balance sheet for the future as Brian outlined. And we think that the next few quarters will also be about improving credit while addressing the negative impact from Reg E and the CARD Act.

Turning to slide eight, let me briefly summarize some of the material items this quarter that impacted earnings. We had several announced asset sales during the quarter, some of which were related to our agreement to pay back TARP. Our ownership in ITAU was sold for a pretax gain of $1.2 billion. Our Columbia long-term business was sold for a pretax gain of $60 million but resulted in a reduction of goodwill and intangibles of approximately $800 million. Our MasterCard position was sold, resulting in a pretax gain of $440 million. We entered into an agreement to sell our ownership interest in Santander, Mexico, which generated a pretax loss of approximately $428 million, before associated tax benefits. All of the asset sales this quarter impacted Tier 1 common equity by $2.3 billion, and added 18 basis points to the Tier 1 common ratio.

Turning to slide eight. Let me briefly summarize some of the material items this quarter that impacted. Let me talk about asset sales. Let me also add that we're exploring a potential sale before the end of the year of Balboa Insurance, one of the largest creditor-placed insurers in the US. As most of you remember, we agreed to generate $3 billion of capital through asset sales or other actions in 2010, and have until December 31st to complete.

Other items in the quarter included the credit mark on the Merrill Lynch structured notes under the fair value option that resulted in a gain of $1.2 billion and is reported in other income but as you'll recall there is no additional regulatory capital benefit related to this gain. We received a dividend of $535 million from our ownership stake in CCB, that is reflected in equity investment income. A hike in the UK payroll tax resulted in increased personnel expense of $425 million. And finally, we increased our reps and warranties expense by $722 million to $1.2 billion as a result of our continued evaluation of exposure to repurchases, including our exposure to repurchase demands from certain mono line insurers. Although this expense and related reserve are based on a life of loan calculation, the environment around repurchases continues to evolve, and we will assess this reserve based on the facts available to us each quarter. We expect a level of putbacks each quarter to remain quite variable.

Let me turn to slide nine and discuss some general financial highlights for the quarter. Revenue of $29.5 billion was down 9% from the first quarter, and 18% from a year ago on a managed basis. We had a drop in net interest income of $873 million from the first quarter, due to lower loan levels and the continued low interest rate environment. Sales and trading revenue declined 55% to $3.2 billion, and I'll go into further detail on that in just a minute. Expense levels were down 3%, but did include the $425 million in higher personnel expense due to the UK payroll tax.

Last quarter included annual retirement eligible expenses of $758 million and higher litigation expense while most other expense areas were relatively flat. Our provision was down 17%, with net charge-offs down 11% and reserves reduced by $1.5 billion. Commercial non-performing loans, leases and foreclosed properties decreased 5% from the first quarter, while commercial reservable criticized levels were down 9% reflecting three quarters in a row of decreases. Net charge-offs were impacted this quarter by an acceleration of losses in our foreign credit card portfolio of $378 million to conform with how we account for renegotiated loans domestically.

Our allowance for loan and lease losses now stands in excess of $45 billion, or 4.75% of total loans and leases. Versus a charge-off rate this quarter of 3.98%, and net charge-offs are expected to continue to decline. The total reserve including the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is nearly $47 billion, compared to $48 billion last quarter. We ended the quarter with higher and stronger capital levels, as Tier 1 increased 44 basis points to 10.7%, versus the first quarter, Tier 1 common was up 40 basis points to 8%, and tangible common was up 13 basis points to 5.4%. Global excess liquidity increased roughly $20 billion to almost $290 billion, while tighter required funding stood at 22 months.

On slide 10 you can see trends for the past five quarters. Pretax, preprovision earnings dropped to approximately $12 billion, reflecting the changes you can see on the slide. Going forward, we believe revenue will benefit from sales and trading performance, however, this benefit will be offset by the impact of Reg E, the CARD Act, lower loan levels, low rates and potentially other regulatory impacts, not yet assessed or identified. An additional benefit to earnings will be expected, decreased credit costs due to lower charge-offs and reserve reductions. Switching to business segment slide on slide 11, I just want to point out that like last quarter, all business segments made money with the exception of home loans and insurance. HLI had a smaller net loss than the prior quarter, $1.5 billion versus a net loss of $2.1 billion, despite higher reps and warranties expenses, $1.2 billion versus $526 million last quarter.

Now let's turn to net interest income on slide 13. Net interest income on an FTE basis was $13.2 billion, down $873 million from the first quarter. This was due to lower loan levels, lower yields on credit cards and the impact of rates in both our core assets and trading book. During the quarter, the net interest yield of 2.77% decreased 16 basis points, due mainly to a shift in the mix of earning assets as higher yield assets are replaced with lower yielding assets driven by the lower rate environment. Our average balance sheet for the quarter was down $20 billion versus the first quarter, reflecting decreases in average loans of approximately $25 billion. Loans were down due to charge-offs, paydowns and derisking the portfolio, as well as weak demand. Implementation of the CARD Act had a negative impact on net interest income this quarter due to reduced balances and an inability to reprice for risk. We expect this impact to increase in both the third and fourth quarters.

As you can see on slide 14, average loans excluding residential mortgages were down $29 billion, or 3.8% from the first quarter, while average total deposits were up $10.6 billion or 1%. Excluding the Countrywide decrease of $2.4 billion, average retail deposits showed organic growth of $8 billion or 1.3%, even as we maintained our pricing discipline. Also shown is the increase in our discretionary portfolio on an average basis versus Q1. Going forward we expect net interest income to trend down in the second half of the year due to continued loan runoff, the impact of the CARD Act and a low rate environment. Our overall interest rate positioning continues to be asset sensitive relative to the forward curve.

Turning to slide 15. CARD revenue began to stabilize as higher interchange offset the additional impact of the CARD Act. Total interchange is up 10% from the first quarter and 19% on a managed basis from a year ago, due to higher consumer spending. We expect the Durbin amendment as currently drafted and subject to final rule making to have an adverse impact on debit card interchange starting in the second half of next year, which I will discuss later.

On slide 16, we show service charges were relatively flat at $2.6 billion, and as we mentioned in prior quarters, we made changes to our overdraft policy last year, which are costing us on average about $160 million per quarter. Reg E will have an additional impact to service charges when it becomes effective in the third quarter of this year. We believe that the total impact of these changes will be reflected in the fourth quarter numbers. We're estimating overall service charges in the fourth quarter to be around $2 billion, which will fully reflect Reg E versus the $2.6 billion this quarter. Obviously we will look to mitigate some of this impact going forward.

Mortgage banking income on slide 17 dropped from the first quarter as result of higher reps and warranties expense. Production levels in first mortgage increased to approximately $72 billion, from approximately $70 billion in the first quarter, and in core production revenue, we experienced higher margins and volumes. Total reps and warranties expense in the quarter was $1.2 billion, and the reserve increased $600 million to $3.9 billion.

Core servicing income increased from the prior quarter and was offset by less favorable MSR results, net of hedges compared to the first quarter while the market driven decline in the MSR value of $4 billion was effectively hedged. The capitalization rate for the consumer mortgage MSR asset ended the quarter at a low 86 basis points due to the drop in rates at the end of the quarter versus 110 basis points in the first quarter. Reflecting the impact of increased home purchase transactions driven by the federal tax credit and seasonality, we saw an increase in the level of purchase mix in our funding to 53%. Given the drop in rates over the past few weeks, we would expect production volumes to remain in line with the second quarter as refinance volumes offset the expected drop in purchase volumes due to the expiration of the first time home buyer program.

Turning to slide 18, as we said earlier, the sale of the Columbia long-term business generated pretax gain and reduced goodwill and intangibles. Investment in brokerage fees were down 1% from the first quarter as an increase in brokerage fees was offset by the decrease in asset management fees related to the sale of the Columbia business. Asset management fees of $1.4 billion were down 6% from the first quarter, while brokerage fees increased 4% due to higher transactional activity. Normalizing for the sale of Columbia, we showed an increase in asset management fees of 6% driven by higher market valuations in the first quarter, as well as seasonal tax fees. Clearly, given the market valuations at the end of the second quarter, this trend will reverse itself in our third quarter results. Assets under management ended the quarter at just over $600 billion, down due to the sale of Columbia's equity in fixed income, lower market valuations and outflows from the former Columbia cash complex. We also continue to experience stability and retention in the level of our wealth advisors.

Sales and trading revenue on slide 19 of $3.2 billion which includes both net interest income and non-interest income, dropped approximately 55% from a great first quarter, due to general market deterioration as a result of concerns around the global economy, lack of liquidity as sovereign debt fears and regulatory uncertainty fuel investor concerns. Compared to the prior quarter, FIC revenue dropped 58% to $2.3 billion, driven mainly by lower results in credit products and rates and currencies and equity revenue also declined. Net write-downs on legacy assets were relatively minor in both periods.

Investment banking revenue on slide 20 increased 6% from the first quarter, although down 20% from a very strong quarter a year ago. Results were driven by an increase in M and A and leverage finance and our monthly results in the quarter followed a U shaped pattern as markets declined in May and global fee pools reached their lowest monthly totals since 2003. Then revenues rebounded in June to the levels we saw in April. Our overall global fee ranking remains stable at number two when compared to the first quarter, but we believe we substantially narrowed the gap between number one and number two this quarter. Our revenue remains concentrated in the Americas versus a more diversified global mix as some of our peers and consequently we continue to focus on that opportunity with key hires and relationship building in important markets outside the US.

Let's turn to the remaining revenue categories on slide 21. Equity investment income reflects the activity for the quarter I described earlier. Net gains from the sale of debt securities were $37 million, and included losses of $711 million on sales of non-agency RMBS sold as a result of a change in certain portfolio objectives, to focus on capital management and credit risk reduction. Other income also reflected insurance revenue of $678 million, down a bit from the first quarter, but slightly up from a year ago. And also included the credit mark on a Merrill Lynch structured notes.

Let me say a couple things about expense levels on slide 22. Total expenses decreased $522 million from the first quarter, due to the absence of $758 million in expense associated with retirement eligible stock grants we normally incur in the first quarter as well as lower litigation expense, offset by an increase due to the second quarter UK payroll tax. Personnel expense compared to a year ago is up $1 billion, reflecting the UK payroll tax as well as higher expenses for the build-out of our global markets and GCIB businesses, as well as higher level of headcount and expense at home loans to address loan modifications and work-outs.

In addition, compared to last year, we are seeing the impact of deferred compensation in our markets businesses that was granted last year, and is hitting expense this year. We're watching expense levels closely and will take appropriate actions if and when our outlook changes. Excluding personnel expense, expenses were down 2% from the first quarter, and 8% from a year ago. Before moving to credit quality, let me add a few comments around income taxes. Due to capital gains from special items during this quarter, the effective tax rate of 17.7% included a $250 million tax benefit from the partial release of an evaluation allowance from the Merrill Lynch capital losses carry-forward.

Separately, you may have read that the UK has announced that it intends to lower its corporate tax rate in the third quarter by 1% effective in 2011. Although this is good news from a cash tax cost perspective, this change when enacted will require us to write down our UK net deferred tax assets by approximately $400 million. The UK Treasury has announced plans for further reductions in the UK tax rate in future years. Similar charges to income tax expense would result upon enactment for each additional future 1% reduction in the UK tax rate.

Moving to asset quality on slide 24. We continue to see an improving trend as net charge-offs decreased $1.2 billion, from the first quarter, to $9.6 billion. Consumer improvement in the unsecured lending portfolios reflected lower losses while consumer real estate stabilized. Commercial asset quality also improved as net charge-offs and reservable criticized declined for the third straight quarter.

Turning to slide 25. As I mentioned during the quarter, in the foreign credit card portfolio, we had an acceleration of $378 million in charge-offs, to conform to our domestic charge-off policies. Excluding this impact, foreign credit card charge-offs would have been $564 million versus $631 million in the first quarter. In addition, if you remember last quarter, we had approximately $800 million of consumer real estate charge-offs on collateral dependent modified loans upon the implementation of new regulatory guidance. The collateral dependent impact for the current quarter was $142 million, and also as we've done in past quarters, we repurchased government insured delinquent loans because it is more economical than to continue to advance principal and interest at the security rate. These loans are insured by the government but do in fact show up in our 30 plus performing delinquency measures.

Turning to credit quality trends on slide 26. Total net charge-offs of $9.6 billion decreased $1.2 billion, compared to net charge-offs in the first quarter. Excluding the impact of collateral dependent modified loans in the first quarter and the foreign credit card adjustment this quarter, consumer losses versus the first quarter were down $813 million, and commercial losses were down $134 million. The allowance for loan losses decreased $1.5 billion through the provision.

This was driven by improving delinquencies, collections and bankruptcies in our domestic consumer credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios and improvement in our dealer financial services portfolio. These reductions were partially offset by reserve increases associated with the consumer real estate portfolios, including $328 million for the Countrywide purchase credit impaired portfolio and $600 million for other consumer real estate loans. On a commercial side, reserves on our core commercial portfolio decreased $350 million, as we've seen broad based improvement in customer credit profiles resulting in lower reservable criticized levels.

On slide 27 we show you the trend in nonperformers. In the consumer area we saw an increase of $483 million, the pace of increase slow slowed from the first quarter as delinquency inflows have slowed in residential mortgage and home equity. Commercial nonperformers decreased just over $700 million from the end of the first quarter, driven by paydowns, charge-offs and asset sales. Almost all the decrease in NPAs was real estate related although most categories were down. Approximately 95% of commercial NPAs are collateralized and approximately 40% are contractually current. Total commercial NPAs are carried at about 71% of original value before considering loan loss reserves.

On slides 28 and 29 you can see that excluding the impact of delinquent government insured loans, consumer delinquency trends continue to improve. 30 plus delinquencies decreased approximately $3 billion, or 14%, excluding the impact of delinquent government insured loans. Delinquent government insured loans added $2 billion to the 30 plus delinquency levels although they are still insured. These government insured loans are primarily related to repurchases from Ginnie Mae securitizations for economic reasons. We can finance these loans at a cheaper rate on our balance sheet and our risk exposure is the same whether we are the servicer or the holder of these assets since they are insured. Commercial reservable criticized levels declined by $4.9 billion, or 9% versus a drop of $3.4 billion in the first quarter representing three straight quarters of decreases. These decreases were broad based across all clients and industries.

Slide 30 shows you the trends of consumer charge-offs as you can see. All categories continue to improve or stabilize, even with the acceleration of losses this quarter in the foreign credit card. Going forward, we expect to see continued improvement. On slide 31, you see that commercial charge-offs peaked in the third quarter last year, although we did see a small $30 million uptick in commercial real estate charge-offs this quarter.

Getting back to home equity, let me elaborate a bit on our home equity book on slide 32. We covered this information last quarter and since it hasn't changed significantly we won't go into it in detail today. I'll just remind you that although losses are still elevated, the vast majority of this book are not piggy-back loans for home purchase or refinance but rather loans that consumers used in most cases for non-real estate purposes. Collateral and reserves exist to partially offset future losses and 94% of the loans with combined loan to values greater than 100% are current.

Turning to capital and liquidity highlights on slide 34, our liquidity position strengthened during the quarter as customers continue to delever and shift into more liquid assets in our discretionary portfolio. Cash and cash equivalents were up $6 billion our global excess liquidity sources ended the period up about $20 billion from the end of the first quarter. Remember, that consists of both cash and highly liquid unencumbered investment securities such as US Treasuries and agency mortgage backed securities held at the parent or banks and our broker dealers, which are readily available to meet our liquidity needs as they arise. We think it is prudent given low interest rates to maintain a high level of liquidity, and we continue to be very measured in our approach to reinvestment.

As noted on our last call, we'll continue to be selective in going to the debt markets and diversifying our funding footprint, but we expect our benchmark issuance to be substantially less than our maturities. In the third quarter, our GAAP capital levels will benefit from the initial mark-to-market of our ownership position in CCB, currently carried at cost. This is because the shares become unrestricted in the third quarter of 2011, resulting in a mark in OCI beginning one year prior. The mark impacts GAAP capital, not regulatory capital, and the related unrealized gain at June 30th was roughly $12 billion pretax.

Moving to slide 35, I've already pointed out our increased regulatory capital levels. We view these levels as strong and believe we can increase these levels over the next couple of quarters. On slide 36, we have listed several pieces included in regulatory reform. We've already discussed the impact of the CARD Act and Reg E. And we're still gauging the impact of derivative and proprietary trading reform. Although we're still waiting for more clarity, we believe the impact will be manageable begin that we do distinguish between fiduciary and trading businesses. In addition, a large part of our revenue and earnings is generated by client focused businesses versus proprietary activity.

As for the Durbin amendment, let's turn to slide 37. All of our consumer and small business card products including our debit card business are part of an integrated platform within the global card services segment. When the financial reform bill is signed into law, the Durbin amendment will impact the future revenues generated by our debit card business. We estimate that our debit card revenue for 2010 will be approximately $2.9 billion. Although subject to final rule making over the next year, we estimate that the decrease in annualized revenue before mitigation could be as much as $1.8 billion, to $2.3 billion, starting in the third quarter of 2011. The estimated shortfall in revenue would impact the carrying value of the $22 billion of goodwill currently included in the global card services segment. Using these revenue estimates, we estimate that the impairment of goodwill to be reported in the third quarter of 2010 could potentially be in the range of $7 billion to $10 billion.

We will continue to explore mitigation initiatives, not all of which will be reflected in the global card services segment. The amount of impairment recorded in the third quarter will be after consideration of the value of mitigation initiatives applicable to global card services that exist at that time. Before we open it up for questions, let me reiterate that 2010 is an environment where earnings and capital formation are the goals. The economy and the consumer at the present time are still delevering so core revenue growth is difficult. The improvement in credit quality is better than our expectations in March and our outlook for the rest of the year has also improved. However, we do have revenue headwinds that we highlighted in the second half of the year as customers continue to delever and we realize the full adoption of legislation.

As we mentioned in the first quarter from an earnings perspective, it will be the dynamic of how fast credit improves and expenses are kept under control, versus the drop in revenue. We are focused on internal investments and service levels that continue to benefit our customers, and believe that the long-term business model of the Company positions us well to emerge much stronger competitively. With that, we'll now open it up for questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. We will begin our question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). We'll take our first question from Matt O'Connor at Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning.

MATT O'CONNOR: Can you give a little more clarity on the outlook for net interest income. It was down about $900 million this quarter. Some of it's obviously from trading. That piece is always hard to project. Your comment it's going to trend down going forward, do you think we would have similar declines to what we had this quarter or more modest?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, they'll certainly be similar. We don't expect them to be quite as significant the last half of the year. Of course, that will depend upon the environment.

CHARLES NOSKI: Keep in mind, as you watch the reduction in loans and quarter to quarter, some of the core loans, the economy continues to retract, some of it also are portfolios that we're trying to run off. In these portfolios typically very high yields but they also have a high credit cost. That demand has been going on for several quarters. It starts to mitigate as you get over the next few quarters because those portfolios are being run down.

MATT O'CONNOR: Separately, what are the assumptions that you're using in terms of how much the debit card revenues might be decline on a growth basis. Seemed like a pretty big decline.

CHARLES NOSKI: Keep in mind, the numbers that we gave reflect no mitigation actions and obviously over the forthcoming months and as we watch the rule making by the Fed, we'll be adjusting our business model to attempt to mitigate as much of that as we can.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Seems like one potential offset for the industry would be bringing down the rewards. Can you just remind us, do you have rewards attached to your debit cards? Is that a pretty big cost?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: That's not a significant part of our debit card business. On a credit card it would be, but not on a debit card as much.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just lastly, if I may, the non-performing assets were relatively flat quarter to quarter. And it's still early in the earnings season but we're seeing declines in other banks. Just wondering if you have any thoughts on why the pace of improvement there is maybe taking a little bit longer than in some other places?

CHARLES NOSKI: I think it's largely the impact of some of these legacy portfolios that Brian was referring to.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. All right. Thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck at Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. Good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning, Betsy. How are you?

BETSY GRASECK: Good. So a couple of questions. One is just on the FIC line. Was there any one-timers in there this quarter. You have peers who were down about a third Q on Q, and you were down more than that. Just wondering what was in there.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Have impacts of CDA and other things that Betsy it's hard to say they're one time or not one time. We just had a very strong quarter in the first quarter so I think I'd look at it more there are pluses and minus in the first quarter, plus and minus in the second quarter, I think it's our relative strength in the first quarter from our franchise that made our potential due to market conditions come down further.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: But you can get into 42 line items about ins and outs. I think it's better said we probably had a very strong quarter first quarter compared to what we had had prior quarters.

BETSY GRASECK: Just when I look at your FIC line in trading relative to the underwriting, it looked like the way we think about multiples there, the multiple came down a bit. You indicated the trading team was nimble, ahead of the European market correction. Just wondering if there was anything they did that might have been a near term -

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: To give you a sense, we run about $300 million round numbers, about $280 million, $300 million of average VAR in the first quarter, we were down to about $180 million in the second quarter. They took the risk down because they weren't sure of the direction and that gives them opportunity if they would have gotten it right. I think it was more making sure that we managed the risk down than it was -- we just thought it was so volatile. Tom and his team thought it was so volatile, they just got out of the way.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and then just separately, I know you spoke about the commentary around Durbin rate but maybe I could ask it from a slightly different angle. Which is what are the key drivers to the assumptions that come up with the 1.8 to $2.3 billion reduction, the 60 to 80% reduction in that line item?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, it's largely our interpretation of the law, Betsy. If you look at the rule making flexibility of the Fed, it's actually pretty narrow. They have some definitional opportunities there, but as we've assessed it, they don't have a lot of wiggle room in terms of being able to modify what's written in the amendment. Again, I want to emphasize that that estimate assumes no mitigating actions and as you might imagine, Joe Price and his team are working diligently to determine the appropriate ways to mitigate the impact of. Some of those mitigating actions may occur in other business segments of Bank of America and wouldn't necessarily be reflected in the CARD segment.

BETSY GRASECK: Because basically the Fed's required to look at what the cost to provide the service is. And so is it fair to assume, therefore, that your revenue decline brings down your debit fees to the cost to provide that service?

CHARLES NOSKI: Yes, we made some assumptions. We believe we're probably the most efficient provider of that service. But we do have some expectations that the Fed is not going to require a merchant to offer different rates, if you will, for every single credit card that a consumer might bring to its store.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I mean, it's a -- that's a margin in isolation is a very profitable activity. When you go from full recovery of revenue to only cost recovery, the impact is substantial. The issue is it's not a severable activity in the sense from all the other things that customer does for us, so there's other ways to make money and other ways to mitigate, but when you look at that narrow revenue stream, it's a fairly profitable revenue stream because they're varied leverage because you're not taking into account any of the cost of originating the customer, servicing the accounts, running the 18,000 ATMs that they have access to and 6,000 branches. That's part of the conundrum in the statute, quite frankly.

CHARLES NOSKI: The Durbin amendment, Betsy, remember, allows us to recover incremental cost.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And as Brian said, the cost of bringing that, the aggregate cost of bringing that service to the customer, the fixed cost we have and the overhead are substantial.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. Okay. And so reward program you mentioned is not as big as in credit card. But there is some reward program associated with debit?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think it's very minor. We'll get you that Betsy but don't think of that as a relevant question.

BETSY GRASECK: The goodwill charge would come when?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: When the President signs -- in the quarter in which the President signs the bill.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. So it would be in the third quarter of 2010?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes.

BETSY GRASECK: Even though the rule making could change and you're just taking that -- your scenario as the base case scenario?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Our judgment, Betsy, as we look, again, at the degree of flexibility that the Fed has to write the rules, it's fairly narrow.

BETSY GRASECK: Right.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: In terms of flexibility. We made a judgment that under any reasonable range of outcomes, we think we'll have an impairment of goodwill and under the accounting rules, when you've got that -- when you've reached that judgment, then you've got to measure it as best you can and take the charge.

CHARLES NOSKI: Matter of transparency, it's a law of the land when he signs it. The question of exactly when it impacts could be subject to some interpretation. We've got to take it when it becomes the law of the land.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: During the quarter as we evaluate mitigating actions, we will come back with our best estimate at the end of the third quarter. That will be the charge we take. We will continue to work to improve the performance of that business through other mitigating actions but to the extent that those mitigating actions occur in a different business segment, we really can't take credit for it in making this goodwill impairment measurement.

BETSY GRASECK: Sure. Do you know when the timing of those mitigating action announcements would end up being? Do you have any -- ?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: This is going to be in my mind a one, two, three year type of work. It's going to be a changing -- as I said in my comments, Betsy, Joe and the team have been hard at and will start to roll out changes in the core way the customer accounts operate of which this is a part. So it's not an overnight thing. It's going to be over a series of the next six to 12 quarters before we can identify and get it back in the P&L.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Richard Ramsden at Goldman Sachs, your line is open.

CHARLES NOSKI: Richard, how are you?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Hello?

OPERATOR: Richard, your line is open. We'll move on. We'll go to Ed Najarian at ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning.

ED NAJARIAN: I guess two questions. First, I think is a fairly easy one. When you talk about the $1 billion aftertax for the CARD Act, could you indicate to us how much of that might already be embedded in the 2Q run rate?

CHARLES NOSKI: About a quarter of it.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you. And then secondarily, given the different types of re-Reg related headwinds that we've discussed and you've discussed on the call, have you given any thoughts on reconsidering your stance on Reg E and sort of going back and reconsidering whether you might work to change that policy and get customers to opt in to try to recover some of those overdraft charges?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we're the largest consumer franchise and especially in the sort of core consumer markets. As we looked at the change we made in Reg E, we were very comfortable we made the right changes and for the good of the customer and I think even if a customer opts in, quite frankly, the next time they overdraft and hit four, five overdraft fees for a cup of coffee and a few things, they're going to realize that that was not the choice they want to make. It's clear from the customer research we do.

The way to go is to move away from the penalty that the intersection of the overdraft charges, the toughness in the economy, people stretching their paychecks as far as they can and then the way the charges worked, and think that through and go to less penalizing a certain group of customers and spread it across a broader group of customer base so we can achieve a return on the business, because the outcome of the specific customer interactions we had, a small percentage of customers are paying a good chunk of the fees. When you look at it in hindsight, it's not the right way to treat them. I don't think them opting in is going to change that dynamic and I think they'll be upset once they opt in down the road.

I think the better course is to get it over with and start to charge a better way and we're seeing our customers respond from our attrition rates are way down and the -- if you actually look at the overdraft fees they have come down some over the last couple quarters but they're stabilizing and stuff and the customers are understanding and we expect it to continue to drop as Reg E comes in. On the other hand, it's the best thing for the customer. Other people have taken different positions and we'll see. We've taken a consistent position. We won't have such a penalty orienting pricing in this franchise, or else we're destroying the value of the franchise in the long-term.

ED NAJARIAN: Thanks, Brian. Lastly, if you could just maybe give a little bit of a big picture answer to sort of the question of we're obviously seeing you throughout the banking industry a lot of revenue headwinds related to lack of loan growth, net interest income is coming down, we've got all these re-Reg related headwinds that we're discussing. What would be the big picture opportunity for Bank of America to kind of go back through and really take a hard look at its operating expense base and bring down operating costs related to some of these revenue headwinds?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you look at -- you have to sort the businesses I think into different parts of that. If you look at the consumer business and you just look at the numbers of brands we had four quarters ago versus now you'll see they're down a couple few hundred. If you look at even trimming some of the ATMs, changing the functionality of the ATMs. There's no question that Joe Price and his team are hard at work on the cost structure, how to mitigate this by revenue and by cost and he has to do that, he knows it and he's working on it.

If you back up in the broader picture to all consumer segments, we're still suffering in the card business, in the mortgage business, the impacts of the delinquency servicing cost for lack of a better term. To give you a sense, it's probably a good loan's $30-ish to service or something like that and a tough loan is $700 or $800 to service. That has brought costs way up likewise in the credit cards. In those businesses, the cost structures are being worked on as we speak and will have to continue to be worked on with the caveat that until we sort of break the back on the hard work around foreclosures and defaults and the delinquencies, the last thing you would want us to do is to pull back on the resources dedicated to that.

Let me completely flip that to the other side to the comms business. The comms business is a revenue business and you can see it in the quarter to quarter in terms of the $3 billion plus in profit in the first quarter, $900 million in this quarter, that the challenge there is all about people. And so what you don't want to do is to go pick at the cost as we're building out and driving the business and driving the profitability on the basis of one downdraft in the quarter. So as I look at it, each business is different. We will have to drive the cost down but it's differentiated -- our personnel expenses I think are down 8% on a linked quarter basis.

We'll continue to do that. But I think we have to be careful about which business and how. And then in the broadest context, one of the reasons we're getting rid of some of these non-core activities is the restructuring that not only has a value of capital but also has a value on a more straightforward Company. To the extent we can get that out, we can take down some of the costs attributable to that from unique operations which are not sort of scalable into the broader base. You're absolutely right, over the next several years costs are going to be an issue for our industry, especially on the consumer side.

ED NAJARIAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Mike Mayo at CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning.

MIKE MAYO: What was the loan utilization in the second quarter?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I don't think it changed significantly on the revolving credit lines to be -- different numbers, but sort of core middle market credits used to run 40s, now they're running 30s. So the [actualization rate] is a little different (inaudible) smaller business credits. And if you think about a core middle market Company, it's not moved up.

MIKE MAYO: So it's still -- I had 37% in the first quarter. Is it still 37%?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, in the aggregate. I think, Mike, as I look at it I always focus on sort of that as the lower sized companies. I look at the core middle market companies, it's even lower than that and it's been steady. There's no loan demand because there's no demand for the products.

MIKE MAYO: It didn't get worse, just stayed flat.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: As we look out, Mike, I think that that -- we've seen some stability in the applications in our small business credit. We've seen some stability in those numbers. But the operative word is stability, not optimism yet. If you went back two quarters, you were still coming down.

MIKE MAYO: And you're shedding a lot of assets. What about CCB and BlackRock?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: CCB is a strategic asset for us and we'll let you know when we make the decisions about various things but I think that the CCB asset, we have a strategic relationship that's broadening as we speak and we benefit by it. BlackRock as I said many times is a great Company and we're very happy with them.

MIKE MAYO: Back to the NPA question, seems like the prime mortgage NPAs went up by a few percent this quarter. Why is that staying up? And do you think we're going to have a double dip? And when does that come down? I mean by double dip in housing.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Our experts don't -- our internal economists think the probability of a double dip is low, that applies to both the housing and the general economy. The question, the NPA, make sure I understand exactly the question. I missed you right at the beginning.

MIKE MAYO: Sorry. Just the NPAs in residential mortgage were up linked quarter. And I'm just wondering when you think you might see a turn for the better in that category?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we're still a few quarters away. I mean, it's cut in half from the first quarter. So I think over the next couple quarters I'd say you'd start to see that mitigate, so if you look, it was $1.1 billion growth in the first $677 million, on page 27, you can see it, Mike. But I still think we're a few quarters away on that. When you think about what's happened, the card business turned around sort of first because it frankly is the easiest to move, to reposition. The commercial business turned around, the C&I business broke through pretty quickly again because the team did a great job in underwriting for the cycle. The real estate related stuff is just slower moving and consumer real estate, commercial real estate will take us a little longer to completely break the backs of the credit in total even though they're coming down a little bit.

MIKE MAYO: Are there any other factors that are influencing that? You mentioned the elevated foreclosures as you clean up Countrywide. Anything else related to government intervention that's changing and, therefore, that's impacting the outlook?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Quarter to quarter, the government programs are basically the same. We've modified our 600 plus thousand. What we have done is in the -- during the second quarter, I forget exactly which month, but basically we started releasing people who aren't going to qualify for permanent mods into the foreclosure process, and so that, remember that 7,000 total mods is a drop of 6,000, and largely that was relief. The process is moving through the system. It's a difficult process. But there's been no substantive change in terms of government support for the modification programs. We're finishing up on the work that we're doing there and continue to originate modifications in accordance with the currently outstanding programs.

MIKE MAYO: Last question. With the new CFO, maybe just any philosophical change on how you approach the position or any changes that we might see.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I'll let Chuck answer that. I think that was directed at him.

MIKE MAYO: Yes, Chuck, go ahead.

CHARLES NOSKI: Brian and I have certainly talked about this so none of this will be a surprise to him, Mike. If I think about my priorities, open and direct communication with our shareholders and other constituencies, doing the right thing, doing it the right way, a disciplined approach to our finances, focusing on returns, not absolute size. Committed to a strong balance sheet, strong capital with adequate liquidity through the cycle. We're going to focus on our core businesses. We're not going to get diverted into other activities. And obviously focus on strong controls and expense management. So those are my -- that's my focus. Those are my priorities.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

CHARLES NOSKI: Thanks, Mike.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Nancy Bush at NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Nancy, how are you?

NANCY BUSH: Couple of questions here. Brian, you spoke several times about derisking the Company. Could you just go through and sort of summarize the major areas that are being, quote, derisked? And if there's any way -- I realize this is very difficult to sort of size the impact that that derisking may have had on second quarter results.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Just in a broad context, I think going through the customer groups, on the consumer side when we talk about taking out the risk, in the unsecured lending products, card products, we had a consumer lending portfolio which is high point well over $20 billion. Is now down to $16 billion and will continue to effectively run to zero over the next few years. We had obviously the legacy assets from Countrywide which we are continuing to run down, some of which are in the consumer segment, some of which are in the central segments but we're running those down.

The home equity book, we're continuing to let drift off some of the tougher areas we probably originated credit to unfavorable terms though the customer. Very small business area, that was an area if the you remember our charge-off rates ran up 18% to 19%. That's come down. It's down to about $12 billion in the second quarter. At the high point I'd say it was $15 billion or $17 billion. So in the consumer, it's more running off non-core portfolios, portfolios that have risk in them. So I can't off the top of my head say exactly what happened but it is taking up revenue and frankly some of those yields on those portfolios are actually higher yields than the core consumer card would be.

When you look at the commercial side of the business, our core middle market business is very strong and we're doing everything we can to grow loan balances, just not a lot of demand. But on the commercial real estate side for example, we had in loans we have a couple of these large deals, one of them we liquidated in what we used to call large floaters. When we liquidated this quarter, we expect to liquidate the rest of them. So we're stuck on large commercial real estate deals. And then the rest of David's portfolio has actually been very strong.

When you go to the large corporate portfolio it's performed very well, meaning lending portfolio in Tom's world. And Tom's world is really the legacy trading assets, CDO rundown, wrapped asset one rundown and we continue to run that off. From an asset portfolio side it's a whole bunch of pieces. I could ask Kevin and those guys to try to take a stab at it.

Let me go back to a broader perspective over the next few quarters. What I think we owe you over the next few quarters Nancy and part of it's just working through it, make sure we have a good handle is sort of the core, non-core view as we work out as to where the loan portfolios that we expect to carry and want to carry and how they are behaving versus portfolios that aren't and we'll do more in each quarter, in the quarters going forward. It's just been as we've been making the transition here, it's been harder to isolate them and getting Chuck on board and getting it put together. Lot of other things going on. We will do a better job showing you as we come out of this year and the economy stabilizes what the core asset side looks like and try to highlight that for you.

NANCY BUSH: Also, there was a story yesterday in The Wall Street Journal about some of the initiatives that are taking place in the branch network and I'm wondering when Joe is going to address -- is going to speak to us about what's going on there, or you're going to do any kind of sort of strategic review of what's going on in retail and is there any expense associated with that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we told you, told you I think in the last call is our anticipation would be to come to you in the early next year with sort of a complete layout of the Company, Investor Day that we haven't done in a few years to lay it all out. I'm sure frankly between then and now Joe will be in situations where he'll talk about it. The thing is, things change. We're here 90 days ago, the idea of interchange being a relevant question I don't think was on anybody's mind. We're trying to make sure we get the rules of the road set and then we can react to them. Last call would have been Reg E and CARD Act.

This call it's interchange. And the questions we got -- sort of make sure that we have the cement forming under the rules and then we can do it. So it's going to take a few quarters. It's not that they're sitting on their hands. We pilot the products in Georgia and in other areas where the all electronic products, we piloted some of the monthly fee products and things like that. So they will be making some of those changes even as we move to the transformational new product set around the core consumer checking which will roll out next year.

They're starting to put some of those changes in, all consistent with the core thought process that shifts from more penalty oriented pricing to more broad based pricing, with the thought process we have to provide a return for you and our shareholders in consumer banking, ROEs at 11%, that business has to produce a lot more for us to do what we need to do in our balance sheet. It's all the levers. We'll pull them all. As the quarters go on, we get more used to what the rules really say, we'll be able to show you more.

NANCY BUSH: And just one final question, I think Mike Mayo used the term cleaning up Countrywide and I would just ask how far through that process do you feel like you are at this point and when do we get to Countrywide sort of looking like, quote, a normal mortgage Company.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think if you separate in two pieces, I think the front end we're finishing the last part of the integration of the systems and implementing the full image base systems and stuff. One of the things we don't talk about, we've had some of the largest systems work ever done in our Company's history going in on the weekends now with Merrill Lynch and Countrywide and completed very well and stuff. From the front end, they completed that work so from a production side, they're still about a month away from having it fully done, a couple months in terms of last pieces of it and we had to slow down to make sure it was really working right. From the production side, we're 20% market share, month in, quarter in, quarter out.

That's sort of behind us. One brand, in the market, core products, what we want to do, adjusted all the buy box, so-to-speak. Adjusted the product parameters. That's done. It's really now the back ends. Think about it as a one million, two million, three million, four million loans that we have just to work through and subsequent work through those loans which may need to be touched again. It's sort of bifurcating in two pieces right now. I'd say it's still probably, I think this year, next year and into 2012 before you see that back end really go over the edge and you see significant reduction past the point we get to normalized sort of default practice.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Moshe Orenbuch at Credit Suisse. Go ahead, please.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great. I've got basically two questions. Expanding on the Durbin, could you maybe flush out what kind of actions you would take both inside the card business and outside the card business to mitigate that? And kind of a corollary is, as compared to the overdraft where you didn't take kind of goodwill write-downs when Reg E cut your overdraft fee revenues, why would you take them now, before this is fully flushed out and your mitigating actions are in place? Could you kind of differentiate between the two?

CHARLES NOSKI: Let me take the back half of that question and leave the front half for Brian. What we do each quarter for our key businesses, where we have substantial goodwill balances, is go through an assessment, a two step assessment as required by the accounting standards to determine whether or not the carrying value of our goodwill holds up, and so that's an incremental kind effort and frankly, when the first round of regulatory changes came into effect or were announced, we had plenty of head room, if you will, in our goodwill impairment calculations. The impact of this most recent set of legislation was more significant and so we have been doing this evaluation regularly, but with the consideration of the Durbin amendment, it did trigger the signals to us that we had an impairment.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you think about the CARD Act, that was taken into account in the evaluation as of the June quarter. We were to the plus. It's next quarter we all anticipate the President will sign the law next week. The difference also is the segments. The overdraft fees in the consumer segment, remember, this goodwill comes from the purchase of MBNA, we've got to start back there.

That was a card Company. We put our payments business together under the leadership of Bruce Hammonds and Ric Struthers and now Susan Faulkner back then, and put the two together. So the segment was reported separately. In the retail business business where the overdrafts go, there's a whole bunch of revenue streams including a whole bunch of margin, obviously, on the deposit business which supports the goodwill, and which was actually less than this business, so it's just not been an issue.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: And Brian, sorry to harp on this, but you didn't buy a signature debit business with MBNA, so where is that goodwill -- how is that goodwill coming from that acquisition?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It was on -- it's on the enterprise which is our payments, our consumer payments business which is a combination of debit card business, credit card business. That was put together two or three years ago.

CHARLES NOSKI: Our global card segment has both debit and credit in it.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Has for a significant period of time.

CHARLES NOSKI: Right.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And so as changes have occurred in legislation, affecting either debit or credit, they've affected our future projections and valuations of goodwill and this was -- this most recent action is the one that --

MOSHE ORENBUCH: So it tipped you over the edge with respect to the valuation.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Exactly right.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: As far as the mitigating actions that you, inside and outside of the segment, could you talk about that a little bit?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: For the overdraft and the debit interchange, basically think about it you have a checking account and you have how you're going to charge for the checking account. You can pick up revenue obviously by the spread on deposits. You can pick up revenue by the fees. The mitigating actions from the revenue side are along those dimensions, which is different types of fee structures, higher minimum balances, still charging for overdrafts and other things that occur on the check side and things like that. And then potentially new products that they're working on that will provide some of the benefits that people wanted from overdraft, prepaid debit and things like that. So we're working on those.

It's all around either the fee side, monthly fees, et cetera other the spread side. On of the issues is when total rates rise, the spread side is relatively inelastic because on the checking you're charging zero. The value will come as the core structure moves up. And then the issue as we said before, some of that falls in the deposit line of business and some of it falls in from the standpoint of how customers think they're paying for a checking account. 6,000 branches, 18,000 ATMs, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay. Just kind of a follow-up on a different issue and that is you talked about the compensation line but with a significant reduction kind of linked quarter, $4 billion roughly in trading profits, I guess shouldn't we have expected to see a little more of a reduction on the personnel expense accruals, I guess maybe could you flush out that versus the deferred comp that you alluded to in the press release.

CHARLES NOSKI: Well, given the variability between the two quarters, I think you really have to look at on a year-to-date basis. And on a year-to-date basis, we're in the sort of mid to high 30s in terms of our accrual. In terms of a percentage of revenues. And depending on how the rest of the year goes, that seems like a good year-to-date kind of number.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it. Thank you.

CHARLES NOSKI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jefferson Harralson at KBW, your line is open.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KBW: Thanks. I think I heard you talk in the past about the pretax, preprovision earnings power of the Company eventually being $52 billion to $60 billion, with this quarter, the Durbin bill, maybe hitting by $2 billion with maybe the margin, the spread was down by $1 billion, that's $4 billion annualized. The fee income included, the DVA of over $1 billion. Rep around warranty moved up a little bit higher. Does this quarter or Fin Reg details make you change how you think about the $52 billion to $60 billion or do you think that needs to lowered a bit?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think -- I'm not sure if I ever talked about that number but that's -- in the past, because I think we saw $14 billion round numbers, and then $12 billion and what we try to make sure people don't annualize $14 billion off the first quarter because we thought trading had an outsize. I think as you look forward, I think the idea of in that high range would be, based on everything we know today, that would probably be more than we would expect. On the other hand, we have time to work through some of this mitigation, some of these provisions. So I think our view is that if people are up at the high end of that range, I think they are high compared to the things that hit us since even like interchange hit us since the time we made that. So I think as we look in the future, in near term future quarters, I think we've been clear that the $12 billion which had some pluses and minuses in it, trading stuff in, more in the range of what we're talking about, $11 billion to $12 billion for the near term with some pluses and minuses each quarter going through.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Chris Mutascio at Stifel Nicholas. Go ahead, please.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks for taking my question. Brian, could you -- I hope you don't think I'm harping on this or anyone else is. On the Durbin amendment, just trying to struggle to see what assumptions you're using in which the Durbin amendment knocks off 70% of debit interchange fees. Could you share the assumptions that you're using?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The broad assumption is you went from an ability to charge to an ability to only be able to recover your costs.

CHARLES NOSKI: Incremental costs.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Incremental cost of supplying the service. You've been tearing apart the assumptions that get us there. Neil could add to it. From a broad perspective, you have to read what that law says which says you can recover incremental costs. This is why we were so as an industry trying to make sure people understood that because it's an unusual event for someone to regulate a particular transaction between two businesses. To only allow you to recover your costs. That's a very unusual event in American history.

CHARLES NOSKI: Chris, appreciate, this is -- If you read the rules carefully and there's still some wiggle room with the Fed in terms of their rule making, we're able to recover incremental costs. So the overhead, the infrastructure, a lot of the things that we offer our retail customers in the banking centers is not incremental and so this was a particularly lucrative business for us. As Brian said, this is not going to benefit the consumers at all. This is simply a movement between different businesses of profitability.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Amazing. Brian, one follow-up. I think Betsy had earlier. In FIC trading, was there any issues with European sovereign debt that might have brought down the trading amount in the quarter? Seemed like you were lower than what I've seen from maybe Citi and JPMorgan. I know you kind of qualified that by saying you took risk off the table during the quarter but was there any type of items related to foreign or sovereign debt issues in the quarter that impacted it more significantly?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Not anything significant. Nothing on sovereign debt. We didn't have a lot of exposure. We managed it well. If you look at that revenue line on the chart there, you can see that the numbers run on the fixed side, $5.5 billion last quarter. If you look back over the other quarters, you can see that was an extremely strong quarter for us.

We think of Tom's business as being quarter in, quarter out, on average and it will move by seasonality more like $5 billion. And that's what I in the earlier question, he needs to hit about $5 billion on revenue, $20 billion on revenue for the year. We think that's a solid performance for that business. As you look back, you can see you can get to the $5 billion average but it bounces around a bit based on some of the seasonality and some of the opportunity. The $7 billion in sales and trading revenue last quarter was a significant outsized performance and most of it as you can see, the equity business is more of a, derivatives, but generally is a $1 billion, $1.5 billion business because of the cash nature of it and the way it works as well as the derivative, but sort of more of an annuity stream for lack of a better term and FIC is where you have the volatility.

It's not a sovereign risk issue. It's more related to the lack of opportunity in terms of the up side and then any hits we took were around the classic sort of CDA issues, counter parties and things like that.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Any thoughts on the Lincoln amendment going forward as relates to that type of $5 billion average per quarter?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We don't think -- again, there's lots of regulations and this one's harder to understand because it's not so discernible. Because we're customer driven and Tom, frankly, the last 18 months has been pushing out some of the vestiges of proprietary trading between Volcker and Lincoln we don't see this as being as significant on this side of the house at all and, frankly, there's some benefits into it of counter party risk and things like that that will help. We have not -- this has not been our major concerns. Obviously with numbers we put out and the other stuff, that's what concerned us.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Carole Berger at Soleil Securities.

CAROLE BERGER, ANALYST, SOLEIL SECURITIES: Good morning. A couple of small things. On the reps and warranties, the increase, I'm not too clear whether we're going to a new level of expenses, I mean, you were at the lower level of about $0.5 billion for several quarters. Is this a new level. Is part of this a reserve build? Could you flesh that out a little.

CHARLES NOSKI: Carole, as you might imagine, there's real variability in the degree of dialogue between us and the various mono lines. In some cases, we're in a very constructive discussion where we have an ability to understand our exposure and measure it and accrue for it. In other cases, there's litigation involved and a lack of communication because of the condition and the circumstances of those mono lines. So what we've tried to do as we would each quarter is make our best judgment and our best estimate around that exposure.

Last quarter we told you that as it related to mono lines, we didn't have enough information to make an accrual. We have more information this period, this quarter, to make an accrual. It will depend upon the dialogue with the mono lines or the lack of dialogue and the kind of work we do to see if we change our estimates. So what I communicate in my prepared remarks was it's going to be a bit lumpy. It's going to be a bit variable. And it will -- there's not a run rate concept here, given the behavior of the mono lines.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think, Chuck, in the second quarter, the actual cost, the actual cost was really flat with the first quarter. This is the additional was a reserve of expected future costs.

CHARLES NOSKI: This roughly $700 million addition was reflective of that.

CAROLE BERGER: Okay. That's helpful. Also, do you have any of the aftertax numbers on some of these larger asset sales? Because it seems to me even after I adjust your tax rate for that $250 million tax credit, I still get a pretty low tax rate in the quarter.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: My recollection, Carole, and we can get back to you more specifically, my recollection is that the aggregate impact of all of these on the quarter aftertax was about -- was a benefit of a -- a net gain of about $1.1 billion, $1.2 billion.

CHARLES NOSKI: Aftertax.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Aftertax.

CAROLE BERGER: Aftertax. Of the three -- of the Itau, MasterCard and Columbia.

CHARLES NOSKI: Yes.

CAROLE BERGER: Okay. And lastly, --

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Carole, one other thing too. We did have some additional tax benefits associated with the Santander, Mexico. In addition to DTA impact.

CAROLE BERGER: Oh, okay. The $1.2 billion, I mean, the -- yesterday on JPMorgan call, Jamie Dimon also said that in addition to large corporates having a lot of cash on their balance sheets, that he thought small and mid-sized companies were also sitting on a lot of cash. Is that your experience as well?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I would say mid-sized, yes. I would say very small companies I'd be careful because it depends on what industry, whether they're successful or still struggling. So if they're in pure retail, restaurants and stuff, no, but if they're in retail restaurants or construction, things like that, those companies are still struggling. Mid-market companies have done a great job through this cycle getting themselves delevered and very good shape. If you talk to those mid-market customers, they're ready to go. They just need to see opportunity.

Those who have business in Asia and stuff are actually seeing revenue growth than those that have business in the United States, they're moving along but they're worried about Europe if they have business there. So it's no different from the general economic picture. But they have got themselves and they're sitting on all that cash. If the catalyst exists for demand, they'll be able to fill the demand very quickly.

CAROLE BERGER: That doesn't really bode well for your loan growth prospects?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think that's a point that we talked about earlier. We've seen stability in the draw rates I think Mike asked about earlier. Stability is better than what we were seeing say in the second half of last year. But we're not saying that we're seeing --

CAROLE BERGER: Understood.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Attributes setting up to grow yet because of the issues you talked about. They have the cash. If you look at the NFIB surveys and stuff, people are not -- it's not access to credit. It's not cash. It's opportunity and uncertainty that's on their minds and so it would take a little while for loan growth engine to pick back up.

CAROLE BERGER: Okay. Thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Chris Kotowski at Oppenheimer & Company.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO: Hi. Most of my questions have been asked. But on the repurchases, I wonder, can you talk about -- is it still mainly the 2005, 2006 and 2007 vintages that are at issue here with this quarter's bump-up or is it an issue that 2003, 2004, 2008, and 2009 are being infected as well?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: No, it's the vintages you would expect.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: It is all in the vintages?

CHARLES NOSKI: Yes, there's no new news there.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Intuition would tell you, somebody's paid us for three or four years, starting to age behind us and you seal a group of activity and a group of loans that we're going to have to work out in the next several years from all aspects, not just rep and warranty but generally working through.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: I'm not sure I'll get any further than anybody else has, but on the potential offsets to like the debit card interchange fees, are there levers that one can pull in terms of either demanding increased free balances from customers or fees or anything like that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes. We've got fees. We've got the spread and then we've got the sort of activity per account which would be raising balances and any other cost side. We are working on all those dimensions, so raising minimum balances and things produces a more efficient. In other words, if that customer has to give you more to keep an account adds to efficiency. All those are on the table.

The law that was passed yesterday is not even law yet. It will take time to retool the whole franchise and have the dialogue with customers to do it, but every aspect will be done, and the one thing I'd say that is one of my things that I get asked a lot about is how come this is such a great area for banks, low rate environment, it's not good for deposit franchise. And so we don't pay on checking accounts and issues when rates are effectively zero the value of that for our Company is less than it is when the short rates are 2.5 to 3%. As rates rise that will also be an offset.

CHARLES NOSKI: I think importantly, when you think about the mitigating actions, think about which ones will occur within the card segment and which may occur in other segments of Bank of America. That has a real impact on the accounting judgment we were making for the third quarter.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Do you mean like -- well, never mind.

CHARLES NOSKI: If you take actions in the deposit -- our deposit segment to begin to mitigate this, it doesn't help our goodwill write-off measurement, because that relates to the card segment.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. All right. So if you can recover, the point you're implying is if you can recover the revenue from the merchant some how then that mitigates the goodwill write-off?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: No.

CHARLES NOSKI: No, if we did something in our deposit taking business and our checking accounts and in the kinds of actions and mitigations that Brian alluded to, that don't result in incremental revenues inside the card segment, it doesn't affect the goodwill write-off judgment. But we run the business in order to optimize the enterprise, not the segments. I mean, what you're concerned about, what we're concerned about, the balance sheet adjustment we made are not at a level -- that's done.

The real question is what's the business model going forward on the consumer side and that is all the mitigating factors. No matter where they come in, you'll get the benefit as the shareholder. Whether it's spread, whether it's fees in any segment, whether it's minimum balance requirements to make us more efficient and taking the costs out. The team is working on it. It will take time to do it as we move through the deposit franchise over the next several quarters.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: All righty. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And due to time constraints, we will take one last question. Our final question comes from Matt Burnell at Wells Fargo.

MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Good morning. I'll try to make these quick. Just a couple of administrative questions I guess. First of all, in terms of the TDR trends, looks like TDR balances were increased by a much lower amount this quarter. Can you provide any color on what the trends are there, what you might see in the third quarter?

CHARLES NOSKI: You're absolutely right. They did decline this quarter. And they will probably decline going forward.

MATT BURNELL: Okay. Focusing on the investment bank for a second, you mentioned that you're intending to grow staff outside the US. Can you give us a sense as to what impact that might have on expenses in the Global Wealth and -- I'm sorry, in the global markets business?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: A lot of people are being hired as we speak so they'll come in their own rate. I think the numbers of people we're adding relative to the whole size of the business it will be an impact, but not a huge impact. And the way we accrue is against the profits and revenue so it will work out in terms of the operating dynamics. I wouldn't say it's going to -- changes in cost structure in Tom's business, that materially over the next several quarters. It's replacing people we lost and adding people but it's against a total base of 10,000 to 15,000 people, it's in the hundreds type of thing.

MATT BURNELL: And then last question, in terms of your potential sale of Balboa, my numbers suggest that there's a little more than $3 billion of assets in Balboa, a $2 billion in capital. Assuming you are able to execute the sale, what effect should we see from that in terms of assets and/or capital getting freed up?

CHARLES NOSKI: We'll fill people in on that I think over -- Kevin and those guys can fill you in specifically. We just today put it in the market and so I don't have a quick answer for you off the top of my head, but it will be a sale, we'll get a gain, it will be behind us, contribute to earnings. Our view is, why are we selling it? We're selling because it's not a core activity of making mortgages and we're continuing to fine-tune the franchise.

MATT BURNELL: Great. Thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: With that, I'd like to thank everyone for joining us this morning and have a good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i8150108 : Credit Cards | i8150107 : Debit Cards | iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81402 : Commercial Banking | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | e1202 : Interest Rates | c151 : Earnings | gcon : Consumer Affairs | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | e1102 : Money Supply | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | lith : Lithuania | baltst : Baltic States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100730e67g000jk
  


 HD
 Q1  2010  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,587 words
   PD
16 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to today's teleconference. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions) We will take questions in turn following the presentation. And please note, today's call is being recorded.

It's now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, DIRECTOR, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Neil Cotty begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, in that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. And with that, let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning, and thank you for joining us this morning. I'm going to start by giving you a high-level review of the first quarter, and then I'm going to turn it over to Neil to take you through the core drivers of the business. And as usual, we've included lots of details on each of the business segments in the appendix of the slides to answer your questions and Kevin and Lee and the rest of our team will be available to answer follow-up questions all through the day.

Starting on the first quarter before we get into slides, I think the results reinforce what I think will be the trends that we'll discuss over the next few quarters. Decreasing charge-offs, potential reserve releases, and those types of things that dominate the credit discussion. We see the modest growth in the economy through the rest of 2010 will continue to hold loan growth back, but on the good side of that we're seeing the consumer and commercial health return which we believe will continue as the year progresses and add some momentum.

As the economy continues to recover, we'll also see a switch in how we earn money in our Company, expecting our core banking earnings, the loans and deposits businesses, to pick up and supplement the currently strong capital markets, investment banking and wealth management businesses.

So let's drop into the slides. Let's begin on page four. Just to hit the high points and the summary for the quarter.

The credit costs and delinquency levels continue to improve with managed losses coming down about a $0.5 billion from the fourth quarter to $10.8 billion, which is a good sign. The commercial criticized levels continue to drop also. In addition, through the FAS 166/167, our reserves now stand at $48 billion, or about 4.8% of total loans.

All this makes us more confident that the worst of the credit cycle is clearly behind us at this point.

Our capital levels remain quite strong even after bringing in the 167 changes. We currently expect to increase and add additional capital through earnings and asset sales through the year as we have talked to you about.

And we remain comfortable that through our past capital raises, our earnings and balance sheet management, our capital position remains strong and is sufficient. We've also built our liquidity and Neil will talk to you about that later.

As we think about our business segment performance during the quarter, I would summarize as follows. Our global banking and markets business had a very strong quarter. There's two components to that business. One is our global corporate investment banking team. And it looks like they were second in overall fees received, they were strong in debt and equity capital markets.

We do have room to continue to improve in the M&A area; the [advice] side. And then the core lending and cash management, that business remains strong.

Tom Montag, who leads that business but also leads our global markets business, had a tremendous quarter in the areas of sales and trading. Strong results across all the areas. With legacy asset write-downs now down to an immaterial amount, and that also shows the worst of the crisis is behind us we believe.

Switching to the other businesses, David Darnell's Global Commercial Banking business returned to profitability, which is a good sign, with a solid quarter as better credit results, coupled with a strong deposit and fee performance continue to offset what is weak loan demand from our core commercial customers.

In our Global Wealth and Investment Management area led by Sally Krawcheck, they had a solid quarter, as markets stabilized, core activity picked up and we stabilized the advisers and other areas in that business.

As we move to the consumer side, Joe Price and the deposit business had a stable quarter. We'll talk to you about the challenges that group faces with the new regulations around the fees they can receive over [time] under the Reg E and other changes we made.

The good news is our core credit card business returned to profitability. It was driven by reserve release but at the lower net charge-off levels are still a very good thing and that business is continuing to repair.

As I have said, the consumer card balances will take a few quarters to level off. But given that and given our conservative underwriting we still produced three-quarters of a million accounts this quarter which is good performance.

Our work in progress remains mortgage. Barbara Desoer and her team have done a good job on the modifications and getting ahead of some of the issues that were the talk of the industry early in the quarter, but we still face the issues that elevated home equity charge-offs that we think will continue for several quarters. And I talked to you about that a few weeks ago.

On the production side, production levels have come down as the market slowed and Barbara and her team will adjust their costs likewise over the next several quarters.

As we think about Company from more of the offensive side and how we go to market we continue to drive this integrated model across the three customer groups we serve, consumers, companies, and institutional investors. The model continues to require that we focus our consumer businesses more effectively as a group going against the customer, and Joe Price and his team recently announced further changes to integrate the card and deposits business.

We've also made changes in how we charge our customers. While this impacts our short-term revenue along with the rule changes that have gone on, we believe this provides an investment in our franchise to maintain our position as the number one retail banking franchise in this country. Our integrated model also continues to progress in the area of referrals. Neil will take you through some of those numbers later.

Before we get into the numbers, let me add that we have added a new member to our management team. Chuck Noski has joined us as CFO and we look forward to him starting in May. Neil and his team have done a great job and Neil has done a great job in the interim and we look forward to Neil continuing to help us do a great job in the future.

So now let's go to slide five and we'll start talking about the numbers. I'll take you through a couple pages, then turn it over to Neil. On slide 5, you can see that we reported core earnings of $3.2 billion, or $0.28 per common share, versus a loss of $194 million or $0.60 a share in the last quarter. That compares to $4.2 billion in earnings and $0.44 per share in the first quarter a year ago.

Earnings this quarter represented the breadth of our platform and the franchise strength. In addition, to remind everybody, the payment of TARP eliminates approximately $900 million of recurring quarterly dividends that we didn't have in first quarter of 2010 versus the fourth quarter of 2009.

As will you note, compared to the past few quarters this is one of the cleaner quarters with little equity sales, other significant items and little or no significant items in the legacy asset mark-downs. Also remember as you look at our numbers is that the managed basis is the appropriate way to think about things due to the FAS 166/167.

As we drop on to page six, you can see some of the details for the quarter. Revenue was up 14% compared to managed results from fourth quarter driven mainly by very strong capital markets and trading results. Expense levels were up 8%, mostly for two items, the revenue and the global markets driving higher incentive comp, as you would expect, and also the cost of the retirement eligible grants which happen in the first quarter of every year. Most other areas, we continue to manage expenses carefully, are relatively flat in the expense category.

On a managed basis, provision was down 25%, charge-offs were down 5%, and we released a billion of reserves which Neil will take you through later and how that ties into some of the changes in home equity accounts. Net charge-offs were impacted this quarter by the write-down of collateral dependent home equity loans by $813 million and $140 million net of existing reserves. We ended the quarter with Tier 1 capital of 10.23%, Tier 1 common of 7.6%, and tangible common of 5.24%. And as I said before, reserves in excess of $48 billion.

That capital position, those reserve levels, when you compare year-over-year are very strong and hold us in good stead going forward. We continue to hold strong liquidity and we added substantially to it this quarter.

On slide 7, you can see the top of the house trends for the Company. Compared to a year ago, total revenue is down but is higher than the last few quarters. Several revenue categories that Neil will take you through have performed favorably. Service charges, investment brokerage services, investment banking, trading account profits, other areas are flattish and struggle a little bit more. Some of the areas, net interest income are equity investment gains, mortgage banking compared to last year first quarter.

Pre-tax preprovision, or PP&R, reached $14.5 billion, a strong performance. Credit costs decreased due to both lower charge-offs and a reserve release that Neil will talk about. But what you really can see with this is that as credit costs subside you can see that the bottom line earnings come through and that's what we've all been waiting to see as we move beyond the crisis.

When we to page eight, just to touch on the business segments, you can see their performance this quarter. I talked earlier about the more subjective read, but the key here is that all our business segments were able to make money this quarter except for one home loan and the global card service and global commercial bank have returned to profitability this quarter which is strong.

We clearly, on home loan investment, lost $2 billion. We continue to have work to do, and the bulk of that was home equity provisioning and credit impaired reserving, and we are addressing those issues and Barbara and team are working hard and hopefully will correct over the next few quarters. With that, let me turn it the over to Neil.

NEIL COTTY, INTERIM CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian. I will dig deeper on individual revenue line items starting on slide 10.

Net interest income on an FTE basis was $14.1 billion, down $300 million on a managed basis from the fourth quarter. This was due to lower loan levels and spread compression in the trading book offset somewhat by improved pricing and deposits. Additionally, there were three fewer days in the quarter.

During the quarter, the net interest yield of 2.93% decreased 11 basis points on a managed basis due mainly to lower credit card balances and spread compressions in the trading book. Our balance sheet at the end of the quarter was relatively flat versus the end of last year after adjusting for FAS 166/167 and continued to remain asset sensitive.

Implementation of the CARD Act is expected to reduce net interest income due to reduced balances and an inability to reprice a risk as well as adversely impact card fees. Total 2010 expected revenue impacts of the CARD Act including both margin and fees net of mitigation is now expected to be roughly $900 million after tax, including the recently announced reasonable fee provisions.

As you can see on slide 11, average loans, excluding residential mortgages, were down $13 billion, or 1.6% from Q4 after adjusting for FAS 166/167, while average deposits were also down 1.4%. Excluding the Countrywide decrease of $2.4 billion, average retail deposits were up slightly as we maintained our pricing discipline. Also shown is the increase in our discretionary portfolio on an average basis versus Q4, which I will touch on later.

Going forward, we expect net interest income to trend down throughout the year due to continued loan run-off and the impact of the CARD Act.

Overall, interest rate positioning continues to be asset sensitive as we are positioned to benefit should the yield curve end up being higher over the next 12 months relative to what is currently implied in the forward curve.

Turning to card income, on slide 12, revenue declined 9% from Q4 due to the seasonal impacts of lower retail volume and lower fees associated with the implementation of the CARD Act. Debit card spending versus a year ago is up 10% while credit card spending versus a year ago is up 1%.

On slide 13, we show service charges were down $190 million to $2.6 billion, due mainly to seasonal trends. As all of you know by now, we made changes to the overdraft policy last year which is costing us on average about $160 million a quarter.

Reg E will have an additional impact when it becomes effective later this year. We believe that total impact of these changes will be reflected in the fourth quarter numbers. We are currently estimating overall service charges in the fourth quarter to be around $2 billion, which will fully reflect Reg E versus the $2.6 billion this quarter.

Obviously, we'll look to mitigate this impact. While we are not prepared to detail the mitigation today, you should expect that customers will have a choice of banking more efficiently, bringing more relationships to us or paying a maintenance fee.

Mortgage banking income, on slide 14, dropped from Q4 primarily due to lower production revenue on lower volumes, partially offset by higher servicing income. Production income decreased $300 million on both lower margins and lower production volumes. Production income includes the expense for reps and warranties which was flat with the fourth quarter at around $500 million.

Service income net of hedge results increased approximately $150 million. The capitalization rate for the consumer mortgage MSR assets ended the quarter at 110 basis points versus 113 basis points in the fourth quarter.

Turning to slide 15, investment and brokerage fees were up slightly from Q4 as an increase in asset management fees were partially offset by lower brokerage fees. Asset management fees of $1.5 billion were up 2% from Q4 due to market valuations, while brokerage fees decreased 1% due to lower transactional activity primarily due to three less days.

Assets under management ended the quarter at $751 billion, up slightly, as the improvement in the market deposit flows generated by advisors were partially offset by outflows in the Columbia cash complex.

We continue to experience continued stability and retention in the level of our wealth advisors. We currently have 16,470 advisers comprised of 15,008 FAs and other wealth advisor roles of 1,460. Our other wealth advisor roles include investment associates, financial solution advisors and US trust advisors.

This is the first quarter in several quarters where we increased the number of active households we serve, up approximately 12,000 to 3.1 million. As you can see, we are adding new accounts at decent pace which is a nice turnaround from last year.

We expect to complete the sale of our long-term asset management business of Columbia to Ameriprise in Q2. It should have a minimal impact on P&L of goodwill and intangible reductions will aid capital by approximately $800 million.

Sales and trading revenue, which includes both net interest income and non-interest income, reflected a pretty decent quarter as you can see on slide 16. The first quarter is usually the strongest quarter in sales and trading for the year. Total revenue of $7 billion comprised of FICC and equities, increased $4.8 billion from Q4 and even topped last year's first quarter by $788 million which was a record quarter at that time.

Fixed income revenue was up more than $4.2 billion driven by rates and currencies, credit products, and structured products, offset by a decrease in commodities. Equity revenue increased $580 million from a slow third and fourth quarter of last year. This is the first time in several quarters where write-downs on legacy assets didn't have a significant impact on revenue. However, this impact could fluctuate going forward.

Investment banking income, on slide 17, had a drop from Q4 which is mostly seasonable but is up almost 18% from a year ago. Bank of America-Merrill Lynch was the most active global underwriter in the first quarter, completing more than 450 transactions across debt securities, equity, and loans around the world. Over 100 deals more than our nearest competitor.

Compared to a year, investor appetite continues to return to more normal levels. One of the biggest turnarounds was in the high yield market which was virtually closed at that time beginning of last year but jumped to near record volumes this past quarter. Investment grade also turned around in a strong quarter.

The global equity markets started slowly this year but steadily gained momentum and finished the quarter with some large IPOs. Our revenue remains concentrated in the Americas versus a more diversified global mix at some of our peers. Consequently, we continue to focus on the opportunity with key hires and relationship building in important markets outside the US.

Turning to the remaining revenue categories on slide 18, equity investment income of $625 million was driven by improved market valuations somewhat offset by a $330 million loss from the sale of an equity portfolio in our discretionary portfolio. Gains on the sale from debt securities were $734 million in the first quarter compared to $1 billion in Q4.

Other income reflected insurance revenue of $715 million, up a bit from both the fourth quarter and a year ago. The credit mark on Merrill Lynch structured notes on fair value option resulted in a gain of $226 million.

Let me now say a few things about expense management on slide 19. Total expenses increased $1.4 billion from Q4 due to the impact of expenses related to the retirement eligible stock grants of $758 million, an increased incentive comp of approximately $800 million based on the overall financial performance of the Company as well as certain business segments.

Excluding incentive compensation, expenses were down $221 million due to lower professional fees and occupancy.

Switching now to asset quality on slide 21, we continue to see an improving trend in total net losses. Consumer credit and loss reductions in the unsecured lending portfolios reflected lower contractual losses and a more than seasonal decline in bankruptcies while consumer real estate continued to stabilize. Commercial asset quality improved as well for the second straight quarter with net credit losses and criticized levels down across most portfolios.

Reserve levels increased almost $11 billion as a result of the adoption of FAS 166/167, and now totals almost 5% of loans and leases.

As you review our asset quality performance there are a few things you'll have to factor into your analysis to get a clear picture of the trends. First is the impact of FAS 166/167, and we have listed on slide 22 the areas that are affected, primarily card and home equity receivables returning to the balance sheet. In addition, during the quarter we implemented guidance which clarified the timing of charge-offs on collateral dependent home loans. We have concluded that our carrying value should be based on the underlying collateral value as opposed to expected cash flows.

This increased our consumer real estate charge-offs by $813 million including $643 million in home equity, and $170 million primarily in residential mortgage. A significant amount of these loans are still current, meaning the borrowers are making their contractual payments on a timely basis.

Finally, as we have done in the past, we repurchased government issued delinquent loans because it's more economical than to continue advanced principal and interest at a security rate. These loans are still insured by the government but do in fact show up on our 30-plus performing delinquency measures. I bring your attention to these items because in some instances they may mask the trends of improvement we are experiencing.

Turning to credit quality trends on slide 23, total net charge-offs of $10.8 billion decreased $550 million compared to net losses in Q4. These net charge-offs included the previously mentioned $813 million of home loan charge-offs associated with collateral dependent modified loans. Excluding this impact and the additional $170 million of home equity net charge-offs due to FAS 166/167, consumer losses versus Q4 were down $811 million and commercial losses were down $722 million.

Excluding the impact of FAS 166/167, the allowance for credit losses actually decreased $992 million. This was driven by approximately $2.3 billion related to improving delinquencies and bankruptcies and in consumer credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios and about $160 million related to our dealer financial services portfolio. These decreases were partially offset by $890 million of additional allowance associated with Countrywide purchased credit portfolio and approximately $640 million for consumer real estate loans.

The additional impaired loan reserving reflects the need to increase the life of loan loss estimates to take into account our deteriorating view on defaults on more seasoned loans in the portfolio, as well as the impact of our modification programs on these loans. This impact was somewhat moderated by improved HPI in certain geographies.

On the commercial side, reserves were relatively flat for commercial real estate, primarily due to stabilization of portfolio trends and broad-based improvement across the remaining core commercial portfolios. In small business, reserves dropped $270 million related to improved portfolio trends driven by the economy as well as changes in lending criteria implemented in 2008 and 2009.

On slide 24, we show you the trend in nonperformers. In the consumer area, we saw an increase of $678 million, of which $231 million was related to FAS 166/167. The pace of increase slowed from Q4 due to charge-offs of collateral dependent modified loans and an increase in the amount of TDRs returning to performance status.

Commercial nonperformers decreased almost $500 million from the end of the year as reductions outpaced inflows. Almost all of the decrease was non-real estate related while real estate NPAs were essentially flat, call it up $35 million. Approximately 95% of the commercial NPAs are collateralized and approximately 32% are contractually current. Total commercial NPAs are carried at about 71% of the original value before considering loan loss reserves.

Now on slide 25, you can see that excluding the impact of delinquent government insured loans, consumer delinquency trends continue to improve at a faster rate. 30-plus delinquencies decreased approximately $3 billion or 12% excluding the impact of delinquent government insured loans, in line with our expectations.

Delinquent government insured loans added $2.7 billion to the 30-plus delinquency levels although, again, they are still insured.

These government insured loans are primarily related to repurchases from Ginnie Mae securitizations for economic reasons, as I mentioned earlier.

Commercial reserve criticized exposures declined by $3.4 billion or 6% versus a drop of $1.4 billion in Q4 for the second straight quarter of decreases. These decreases were broad based across clients and industries, although criticized levels in commercial real estate are not expected to stabilize for a few quarters.

Slide 26 shows you trends in consumer charge-offs. As you can see, most categories appear to be improving or stabilizing. The uptick in home equity was related to collateral dependent actions and the impact of FAS 166/167. Going forward we expect to see continued improvement with perhaps home equity lagging the other products.

On slide 27, it appears the commercial charge-offs peaked in the third quarter.

Getting back to home equity, let me elaborate a bit on our home equity portfolio on slide 28. You can see total outstandings at the end of March were $150 billion. Approximately 90% of the outstandings were in stand-alone originations versus piggy-back loans. Approximately $13 billion of the portfolio is included in Countrywide purchased credit impaired portfolio at the end March which is also discussed on the next slide.

For the non-purchased impaired portfolio approximately $26 billion in the portfolio is in a first lien position and obviously the rest are in a second lien position. For the second lien positions, there are $39 billion that have CLTVs in excess of 100%.

However, that does not mean the severity of loss will be 100% of home equity loan in event of default. Depending on the loan to value of the first lien, there may be collateral in excess of the first lien that would be used to reduce the severity of loss on a second lien. So if you made an assumption that the proceeds would be 89% of the collateral value, we would estimate that there is collateral value available around $11 billion to reduce the severity of the loss on the $39 billion of second liens. Also, on the total non-purchased impaired home equity portfolio our reserves are pretty significant at $8.3 billion or over 6%.

On slide 29, we give you a summary of what is in the Countrywide impaired portfolio. The lifetime loss rates represent our current estimates of the portfolio loss expectations as a percentage of the original unpaid principal balance of the portfolio at acquisition date. At the end March, the unpaid principal balance of the remaining portfolio is $46 billion. Including the original credit market the acquisition and the additional valuation allowance we have established the portfolio was carried at $32 billion, or 69% of the unpaid principal balance.

On $29 billion, or 62% of the March 31 unpaid principal balance, we would not have experienced any charge-offs to date if these loans had been accounted for like our non-purchased impaired portfolio, and additionally, of this $39 billion, customers are up to date or current on their payments on $24 billion.

Home loan modifications are detailed on slide 50. We service 14 million first and second lien mortgage loans. Since the start of 2008, Bank of America and previously Countrywide have assisted customers with more than 800,000 home loan modification transactions including more than 289(Sic-see presentation slides) trial modifications, more than 82% of the customers in trial modifications have made three or more consecutive payments.

We have completed more than 530,000 through our own proprietary programs. And through HAMP we have completed nearly 38 permanent modifications, and an additional 35 modifications are just awaiting customer signatures.

Turning to capital and liquidity highlights on slide 32, our liquidity position strengthened during the quarter as customers continue to delever and we have shifted to more liquid assets in the discretionary portfolio. Cash and cash equivalents were up more than $20 billion. Our global excess liquidity sources ended the period up about $50 billion from $214 billion we had at the end of the year.

Remember, that consists of both cash and highly liquid unencumbered investment securities such as US treasuries and agency mortgage-backed securities held at the parent, our banks, and our broker dealers which are readily available to meet our liquidity needs as they arise.

We think it is prudent, given the low interest rates, to maintain a high level of liquidity, and as Brian said, given our interest rate outlook, we continue to be measured in our approach to reinvestment. Our parent company time required funding metric stands at 24 months of liquidity.

As noted on our last call, we'll continue to be selective in going to the debt markets and [diversing] our funding footprint. But we expect our benchmark issuance to be substantially less than our maturities.

Keep in mind that FAS 166 and 167 did present a drag on select ratios in Q1. As you can see on slide 33, Tier 1 ended the quarter at 10.23%, down 17 basis points from the end of the year. Tier 1 common was 7.6% and tangible capital was 5.24%. We view these levels as strong and we believe we can increase these levels over the next couple quarters. For now, every dollar of net income earned over roughly $400 million over the year, roughly $400 million quarterly dividends paid is accretive to capital.

On slide 34, we listed several examples to demonstrate how we are gaining traction and referring existing customers to other parts of the bank. Over the past year, several -- over the past several quarters, average retail deposits experienced strong organic growth in Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management.

The pace of the consumer referrals and sales to Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management accelerated in the first quarter reaching 275,000 referrals since the merger. More than 7,100 have been made by FAs to the commercial bank generating more than $27 million of revenue. We expect these types of opportunities to continue.

Before we open it up for questions, let me reiterate that 2010 is starting off in line with the opinions expressed in January. The improvement in credit quality is probably better than our expectations in January and our outlook for the rest of the year has also improved. However, we do have revenue headwinds in the second half of the year as customers continue to delever, and we realize that the full adoption of the CARD Act and Reg E that will impact net interest income, card income and service charges.

From an earnings perspective, it will be the dynamic of how fast credit improves and expenses are kept under control versus the drop in revenue. However, by the end of the year we should start to see some stabilization in revenue levels at which time we may be able to talk about growth due to improved consumer and commercial activity.

With that, we'll open it for questions. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) We'll pause for just a moment to give everyone an opportunity to join the queue. We appreciate your patience. We'll take our first phone question momentarily.

And we'll go first to the site of Matthew O'Connor from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning, Matt.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: If I could just ask a clarification question on the $813 million of charge-offs related to the loan modifications. Is that a one-time catch-up, or is some of that $813 million recurring?

NEIL COTTY: Yes, I would look at it as a lot of it, or the majority of it has been previously provided for through provision, and it was actually in our allowance, so look at that as just moving into charge-offs. And so it would be a one-time catch up to charge-offs of that magnitude.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, so then going forward, as we think about the home equity losses specifically, should we use the current run rate and adjust that up or down for wherever we trend from here, or do we back out that $600 million and go from there?

NEIL COTTY: You adjust that number; back it out.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. So all-in, home equity losses should decline from reported 1Q levels you would think then?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, as we get to the second quarter. If you look back to the historical trend, a $1.5 billion, up to $2 billion was a trend we were running at. This was sort of outside.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, that's helpful. And then just separately, the card balances continue to come down, the home equity comes down. Any sense of when those might bottom and at what levels and then, of course, what will you do with all the cash that's being freed up?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think, as you think about the consumer portfolio, just to frame it a little bit in cards, and it's a major driver, but if you think we had about $430-odd billion of loans in the first quarter last year, now we have a little under $400 billion, so we dropped $37 billion, $38 billion in loans. $33 billion of that actually is due to charge-off credit.

And so what's driving the loan balance down in large part is still charge-off credit. As charge-offs come down, which they are, we'll see stabilization from that. Also as we run off the portfolios we didn't want to have around we'll see stabilization.

So I think it will take us probably, I would say, three, four quarters where you will see it. But underneath this the trends of the core stuff that we are going keep and drive for value over time is very stable. It's just that you have these sort of extra factors that we're dealing with in the short term.

The pure issue of charge-offs taking loan balances down, then secondly running off some of the portfolios, which were -- we accumulate which are not as attractive. So look three or four quarters for it, okay?

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. So hopefully by the end of this year you would think overall loan balances could start to inflect?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes. I think the key on the overall loan balances, away from card which will be a driver, is to remember a couple things. One is that we have the portfolios, the Countrywide acquired portfolio which we're continuing to run, that's a mortgage portfolio that runs relatively -- is not going to run that fast.

Then we've got the in-home equity. Again, I wouldn't expect that to grow, and it will bounce around.

But remember on the commercial side what we've seen is in the, David Darnell's portfolio, if you look year-over-year, his loan balances as are down fairly dramatically, and that is due to customer demand. There's no other explanation.

That's because customers are not feeling the need to draw on our lines because they don't see economic demand. We have seen that, I would argue, stabilize somewhat very recently, and so we're not sure -- a short period of time doesn't make a trend. But our belief is that as the economy stays stable that number ought to sit where it is, and then the draw rate, which is reached in the mid-30s as opposed to mid-40s, ought to come back up as people build more inventories, hire more people, have more cash flow needs.

So I would say that's probably, watch over the next couple quarters, but it is -- we feel better about it here than we did probably a quarter ago.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Paul Miller from FBR Capital Markets. Your line is open.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank very much. I just want to commend you guys on your disclosure on both the modifications and the HELOCs. I really like it a lot, it helps us tremendously.

On the provisions, you guys, you took your provisions up roughly $10 billion to adjust to that FASB 166 and you have a big chunk of provisions out there now, close to $48 billion. How should we look at provisions going forward? I know a lot of people on the street are really looking for provisions to drop off. How are you looking at that and when should we start to see a lot of provision release going forward?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So on the actual charge-off levels, I think you can see the trend lines, Paul. And you can look at them. We're facing still unemployment that's very sticky. And so the numbers yesterday, I think, all give us pause in new claims and stuff that we aren't seeing quite the improvement that people could mathematically get to and stuff. So I would be -- it's going to -- they will keep coming down.

If you look [fairly] stated quarter-over-quarter, billion dollar range, actual charge-offs, I think we will see continued improvement there. But I'd be careful until we see unemployment break that we see that.

In terms of reserve releases, we're trying to be conservative here, we're trying to watch because we still have uncertainty in the economy. And we're sitting with strong reserves. We built the reserves up significantly year-over-year. We'll continue to hold those reserves.

So I would be careful about assuming huge reserve releases near term until there's more certainty in the economy. But the core on-line trends are strong. Like I said at the beginning, this will be the discussion we're going to have each quarter as sort of the tradeoff here. But we're going to try to make sure we don't have any probability of needing to build reserves because the economy has a little blip in it or something.

PAUL MILLER: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We go next to the site of Mike Mayo from CLSA. Your line is open.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Hi, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: Just to follow up to that last answer, so you have uncertainty in the economy, unemployment is sticky, but credit was better than expected for this quarter and better than you think you had expected before for the year. How do we reconcile those two thoughts?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Strong collection activity, getting ahead of it last year, and some of the credit expense we took last year in areas like bankruptcy and stuff. When people are filing now, we've already charged them off. Some of the policies we've adopted.

And then lower balances, you have to remember the balances we've run off were of a kind that were sort of net risk adjusted margin, probably negative or very neutral at best. And so we're running off more risky balances, and the balances we're retaining are the more solid balances, for lack of better word. So all those dynamics, you're seeing it.

I think the real thing you need to focus on is if you look at the early stage delinquencies, that improvement -- those are real improvements, frankly of the last six, eight quarters, more and more conservative policies on anything you can do with the customers that have been implemented by us. So those are very strong improvements. So I think that's how you reconcile it.

The unemployment levels are high but as long as there's not a lot of new people going in we don't see it affecting us, we're just cautious.

MIKE MAYO: And then going to trading, why is trading so high, I mean, externally, it's hard to figure this out. Is it proprietary trading? Is it derivatives? Do you have some markups there, what's going on?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I mean, let me characterize it, I'll let Neil fill in. If you look first quarter last year it was strong, too. There's been very strong markets. The spreads have narrowed but the activity level has been very high, especially in the fixed income areas. We've been able to take advantage of it.

We don't have a big [prop] book. The fixed income stuff you see is all driven by customer activity that we're moving around for them. It's just very active issuance, and there's very active secondary market going on. The first quarter is always the best year -- best quarter of the year in this business, and you'll see it. The equity business continues to be very steady.

So I think it's really all good performance. The actual VAR and risk we're taking is relatively flattish through the last five quarters. It's equivalent to what you are hearing from other people in the market. It's strong performance. We're watching the risk carefully, make sure we don't have that reverse on us. Tom Montag and his team have done a good job.

Neil, do you want to add anything?

NEIL COTTY: Yes, as Brian said, we can all argue how good VAR is, but it's up slightly from the end of the year, probably 276 versus 255 million. We look at a three-year trailing, so it's going to be a little higher than others that might report who use a one-year. But it was sort of up and down the P&L.

As I mentioned, other than maybe commodities, the growth. But you are just seeing strong customer flow repositioning of balance sheets, and it was steady throughout the quarter. Obviously, I mean, not obviously, but January is strong, tailed off somewhat in February, March, but just steady each and every day.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Just on the VAR, to be careful, is the three-year VAR obviously picks up the worst stress period in history in the 2008, and the one-year would not. So on a one-year basis we'd be between $65 million and $75 million, to give you a sense.

MIKE MAYO: And then last question, I know you just got a new CFO, but what are the financial targets for Bank of America?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, Mike, I think we are -- we saw -- we still are dealing with making sure we understand all the different things that are hitting us in terms of capital level and stuff. If you think about a 5% return on equity, where you are not satisfied, you think about a 10% return on tangible equity, we're not satisfied.

I'd say we're less than halfway home. I think we'd expect to have returns on equity in the low teens area, and we'd expect to exceed that in tangible equity. But it's good to be where you're starting to see a relative core earnings level, then you can build off it as the economy improves.

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: we'll go next to the site of Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning, Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Question on capital, your common tier 1 ratio went down very slightly. Obviously a function of the FAS 166/167.

Could you just give us a sense as to what you would be managing the Company to and when -- what the trigger point is for you to start share buybacks, I know it might be out a ways, but I just want to get a sense as to what you are thinking about?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, just to be clear, when I talked to a lot of you at a conference a few weeks back, we thought originally the net impact of this was sort of 50, 60 basis points. With a better earnings and stuff you saw that impact mitigated tremendously. So we accrete capital pretty quickly right now. Neil made that point.

I think we've got to have two or three things clarified. We need to know where the [BAH's] rules sit. We need to know the economy is stable and continues to go north. Then -- so I think we need to get these levels probably slightly higher through some retained earnings, then he we'll feel comfortable. Clearly we're very comfortable in a range. There is some uncertainty about how you are going to count things going forward.

The one I'd look at is the tangible common equity, I think we've got to get it up to 5%, 5.5% range, and probably close to 5.5% is what we've got to get to, but that will come pretty quickly with some earnings. And then we can talk about that because I think as we go through the next two or three-quarters you will see certainty on the [Bosal 3], certainly on the sort of economy, then I think we've got to have a good discussion but I think it's still a few quarters premature.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then just a couple of more detailed questions. You outlined the expected impact from the card fees, $900 million after tax. What's in the run rate in 2Q?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: In 2Q or 1Q?

BETSY GRASECK: I'm sorry, 1Q. Sorry.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's not a lot yet because most implementation will actually happen in February, and so that's why we're trying to give you sort of the long-term view. So you expect most of the implementation costs we talked about, there's some there from some changes we made (inaudible) --

NEIL COTTY: I think it's about $150 million, $160 million, pre-tax.

BETSY GRASECK: $150 million to $160 million pre-tax?

NEIL COTTY: And by the way, that's after mitigation.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. And the mitigation you're talking about is what exactly?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Just a whole bunch of techniques and how you put credit on. Remember, the core thing with the CARD Act says you can't price for risk once you put the credit on until the person is delinquent. What we're doing is how we're pricing up-front, some of the fees and other things that we can do to make up for it, but that's the core charge.

BETSY GRASECK: But you are looking at that $900 million versus like an 2008 number, or an 2009?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: It's a 2009 number.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then on the service charges, on page 13 I think you outlined that. Could you give us a sense -- that $2 billion run rate that you could potentially be coming close to in 4Q is before any mitigation. Could you talk a little bit about what you are thinking about with regard to mitigation and the sizing of mitigation?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We won't talk about the sizing because we're still working on it. But one of things, Betsy, that -- the total deposit base on the retail side is $600 billionish. So if you think about the lost dollars as a percentage of that you can see that you need to make up the fees -- between the fees and the deposit spread, you need to make up the amount.

And this is all about taking what was a pricing attribute that hit a small group of people hard and spreading it. So the mitigation will be around product design to help customers and use more automated means and do that. We've launched some of those products already.

The discussion of whether you have monthly maintenance fees is in the mitigation consideration. But also as rates rise and deposit pricing, I think we will be more conservative to achieve back some of that spread across everybody and so people only look at fee versus fee.

But there's actually -- you have to think about all the revenue sources from a transactional count that we can get it from. So we'll detail those for you in subsequent quarters as we're putting them in, but I think the core issue is that we just want to make sure that people are clear that we get down around the $2 billion line.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then lastly, on liquidity and the cash that you have on balance sheet, what are the triggers for reinvesting that cash and bringing that liquidity down?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think philosophically we're going to be carrying more liquidity. I'm not sure this much is the right answer long term, but I would be careful of a lot of people making assumption that can be put to work and earn a lot more.

If it's liquidity, it's not going to earn a lot because it has to really be liquid, especially under our standards and under the rules. But I think would it shrink the balance sheet and, therefore, free up capital is a better way to think about it over time.

Again, until we see the new rules on liquidity, which are the Bosal [3] proposal, which are tough, not tough, which are fair and will require a lot of liquidity, we want to make sure we're holding enough but it will come down. But I wouldn't just assume you could put it into a 100-basis-point earning asset because it really would just be paid down and reduce the size of the balance sheet.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. But you have been putting some of your liquidity into treasuries, right, which is a little bit better yield than what you've been getting in the past?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: In increments, yes.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.

NEIL COTTY: Yes, importantly, Betsy, we're putting them into treasuries. But it's not like we're opening up the interest rate gap significantly. We're also putting hedges on against some of those.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, so we bring them back to current. Tens of basis points as opposed to any big spread on them.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, got it, all right, thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We're going to run the balance sheet, Betsy, very carefully. So the discretion portfolio and stuff this is a key, to use the capital wisely going forward. So we'll be clear on that as we get clarity on some of the rules.

NEIL COTTY: Just to Brian's point, I manage the balance sheet closely, I've sort of covered the sale and the loss of $331 million of equities. Again, that was one of the actions we took during the first quarter to tighten up on the balance sheet.

BETSY GRASECK: Got it. Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Glenn Schorr from UBS. Your line is open.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, thanks. A little bit further on the whole liquidity conversation. I don't know if it's just timing or if it's just a rate thing, but commercial paper went from $70 billion up to $85 billion.

Just curious with so much liquidity, the thought process on tapping that as a source of funds? And then just maybe in conjunction with that, just talk about maybe the size of run-off in the CD portfolio that might be coming off, and how those work together?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The CD portfolio I would put more in a -- more in a business line strategy question as opposed to a corporate level planning on liquidity strategy. It's more the theme, as CDs mature, people go in the short terms, they don't want to commit to duration. And also we still have behind the scenes, as many of you know, over the last couple years we have the Countrywide CDs and other things we're running off.

So that's more the CDs. I wouldn't try to equate that up to the commercial paper. Neil, on the commercial paper --

NEIL COTTY: Yes, on commercial paper, we're looking at various, during the quarter, various areas to tap the markets, and just felt diversification and a mix at good rates was the way to go.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. And then when looking at deposits, they were reasonably flat enough from last quarter.

In listening to your comments about some of the loss mitigation efforts you might make in retail, implicit in there, it sounds to me like competition is reasonably rational, and your clients are staying put. But I just want to see if you agree with that comment?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, we've done fine on deposits. If you think about it broadly, we've done fine on the retail side in terms of the relative to our position in the industry. And then on the -- but if you go to the affluent side we've done very well and built a lot of deposits.

There's $500 billion deposits that are in our Merrill Lynch customers or in other banks, and get through the relationship management practice we should be pulling those in so you will see that, Sally and her team, continue to drive that. And that was strong again this quarter.

GLENN SCHORR: And --one step further there is traditionally, if and when rates rose, people sometimes migrate out of the deposit side. Are you preparing for that? Is that part of the big liquidity boost as well?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We think of the customer holistically that they will have liquidity; choices to put their investments. And so if money market rates became competitive again we have that platform to put them in also.

I think we're a bit of a distance away from that outcome because you've got the fee waivers and stuff on that side of the business that we've got to recover from first. As the yields come up, the net yield of the customer will take a little while to come through.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. And rating agencies have been vocal lately on additional levels of support and how they might react if resolution authority is made official, which is probably already official. I don't necessarily agree with the magnitude, but the concept, does that contribute to your boost in the liquidity levels? And how do you think about what happens if there was a notch or two of support taken away?

NEIL COTTY: Listen, we've had ongoing conversation throughout the quarter. We always do with the rating agencies. And obviously we're focused on liquidity levels to return them to the sort of levels that we wanted to pre all the disruption that went on.

So I would say, yes, we've been having dialogues. It is in the back of our mind. And, again, our focus is on having a strong balance sheet and very liquid.

Again, just when there's uncertainty with regard to the economy. The uncertainty, as Brian mentioned, with regard to Bosal 3 and other things that are being passed or discussed. We just want to be well prepared for anything that may come at us.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, thanks, I'm good. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Ed Najarian from ISI Group. Your line is open.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI CAPITAL: Yes, good morning. Just a couple of quick questions on credit quality. Any insight on why their first lien mortgage charge-off ratio went down this quarter despite some of your comments regarding additional charge-offs related to the underlying value of the collateral? That would be question number one.

And then question number two, should we expect this quarter to be the peak in the credit card loss ratio? It looked like your March Master trust data was pretty significantly improved in terms of both charge-offs and delinquencies relative to the January and February. We have JPMorgan forecasting an improvement in the second quarter so I'm just interested in your outlook 2Q versus 1Q there on the credit cards? Thanks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Overall, I'd say our overall caution -- I'll have Neil fill in some of the elements here. We still are fighting the denominator effect on these ratios on a given quarter. So the key is to focus on nominal delinquencies, nominal run then make sure we stabilize the platforms as we go through the quarters.

I'm not sure next quarter I would predict it but over the next several quarters it's bound to stabilize. And as delinquencies and charge-offs keep coming down you'll see the ratios improve.

We feel we've broken the back of it and it is coming the right way from the front end, from the early stage through, so that's the key. Neil, why don't you --

NEIL COTTY: I think we've been attacking the credit card side for quite some time and you should see improvement going forward. On the residential side, it went down slightly, but when you adjust for all the items that we've talked about, I don't think it's down significantly.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: But the most encouraging thing I would say, if you look at the 30-day past-due percentage it actually did decline on the card and has been declining, which is running ahead of it. And that's good news going forward, and that's why we take some solace in terms of what you should see over time there and frankly why the line of business level release the reserves.

ED NAJARIAN: Just as a follow-up, is there any reason to think that that first lien mortgage ratio was a little bit inordinately low this quarter and could be -- even though you're getting ahead of it could be up maybe in 2Q and 3Q before we get a more consistent down trend?

NEIL COTTY: You've got to be careful looking at the ratios because you do have noise in there because of, as mentioned earlier, the collateral dependence that we talked about.

ED NAJARIAN: Right. But that would have added to it, not detracted from it. Yet it was still a little lower than expected?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We could get back. I'm not sure we'd expect either mortgages or home equity to move dramatically from where we are at this point, okay, in terms of dollar amounts and in terms of how it affects the P&L and percentage. We are running the mortgage portfolio down overall because there's, in the grand scheme of things, there's a big chunk of it that is a run-off portfolio that will keep coming down.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, all right, thank you.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to the site of Chris Kotowski from Oppenheimer. Your line is open.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Hey, just picking up on that last comment, one of your big competitors at a recent analysts day classified about 70% of their home equity portfolio as being, quote, a run-off portfolio, and almost 90% of their prime mortgage portfolio as being a run-off portfolio. And I took that kind of as a big vote of no confidence in those products. Do you see it similarly? And what is your outlook for the future of those products?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I wouldn't say it -- if you heard Neil talk earlier, 90% of our produced home equities on our book are to clients who got a home equity to fund a kid's education, whatever it was for, it's a core product. So we did $2 billion this quarter in new origination. The reality is that, $2 billion originations versus what we were doing before is that portfolio will come down a little bit. But it is a core product.

It's just -- we're -- where we're in, there's not as much equity in people's homes and things like that but it's a core product. It's for people to use, for more affluent customers to use, quite frankly, to tap the equity for near-term use, to fund a kid's education, as I said. Fund something else and then pay it off over time. So it is a core product for us. We wouldn't expect that those kinds of numbers would be there.

On the first mortgage you have to remember, we have first mortgages on the books for various reasons. Part of is it the portfolio we produced, and that is jumbo and other things for our wealthy and affluent clients. That is core business and it will continue to grow. We then have another portfolio of mortgages that we have as part of our discretionary activities to balance our book. That will go up and down depending on what we need at the time.

What I was talking about more clearly was that as we bought Countrywide we inherited portfolios which are not core and those will run off. The first two categories will stay in the business. It's just that impaired portfolio and things will run off over time.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, and as a follow-up, how do you determine what's collateral dependent versus non-collateral dependent? I hadn't heard that term used in quite this way before. What drives that decision and the attendant charge-offs with it?

NEIL COTTY: You look at are there other sources of collection against the loans, such as earnings of the debtor.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And then just lastly, you highlighted on a couple of occasions that you were asset sensitive. And I'm just kind of curious is there a way to gauge what would -- the impact on your margin if you had, say, 100-basis-point increase in rates gradually over the course of a year?

NEIL COTTY: Yes, there's a page in the deck that we issued that has the traditional bubble charts in there. I believe it's page 60, it's in the appendix. We've got the bubble charts, and I think there's also some sensitivity in the chart on the next page, page 62, which would give you that. You've got remember, that's off the forward curve.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: All right, thank you.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: And it's also, the other thing, that's also on a base of $50-odd billion of yearly NII, and so the number is relatively small for all those different rates.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Chris Whalen from the IRA. Your line is open.

CHRIS WHALEN, ANALYST, INSTITUTIONAL RISK ANALYTICS: Good morning. Going back to your return on equity target in the low teens, there's an awful lot of talk in the analyst community about normalized earnings and a return to the normal trend.

When you look at the real estate market, as you've already discussed, the opportunities available; the equity in homes. When you look at the addition of Merrill Lynch, how should we think about the industry past the crisis, past the credit issues in terms of return on equity as opposed to what we saw in, say, the previous five to seven years?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think we're carrying it on a gross equity, a fair amount of equity. We have a fair amount of intangibles. That number is going to be suppressed in some respects in our category just because of the difference in return on stated common versus tangible common.

I think, as we've said, we'll be figuring a lot of that out, but I think this is a good industry. I think we have the best position in it, and I think that if anybody can earn money, we'll earn money. I'm comfortable that when we look at all the rules that we should hit the targets that are in those lines that I talked to you about.

CHRIS WHALEN: But just to follow up, low teens is much lower than we were, obviously, with a very large mortgage securitization flow. You guys at BA and also at Merrill have been doing a lot of work on covered bonds in Washington and trying to shape what comes out or may not come out of that legislative effort.

How do you see the non-conforming private label market over the next couple of years fitting into your model and the industry model as far as revenue?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we have to find a solution for those customers, and putting all non-agency business on the balance sheet of the bank industry is a difficult task. We have to find a market and figure out a way to securitize those assets, and with the skin in the game and all the proposals, one of the things we need to keep balance on is the judgment of how it will impact those markets which are important to the customers. And as things stabilize and people have the debate about Fannie and Freddie and what will go on and stuff like that, they could become even more important.

So I think we are mindful and trying to help shape the proposals and policy that will end up with a strong secondary market for mortgages that would allow this country to continue to fund this mortgage debt appropriately for all customers not just the agency qualified or government qualifying customers.

CHRIS WHALEN: Thank you for that. I also want to echo Mr. Miller's thanks regarding the disclosure.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And due to time we have no more time for questions. I will turn the call back to our presenters for any closing remarks.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I just -- thank you for your time. I think that, again, with the summary, I sort of left off, it was a solid first quarter. You can see the earnings come through as the credit costs mitigate. The economy is still something that we are mindful of and it has solidified, it's stable, and it's having a good impact on our Company. As we look out, we expect the recovery to continue.

It's good to see that all our businesses except for the one are profitable, and we're working on that one hard. And that business had a strong sales and trading but what you are starting to see is as credit costs mitigate the core banking side of our platform starts to generate earnings and balances back out the Company. Thank you for your time, and we'll talk to you soon.

OPERATOR: And this concludes today's teleconference. Have a great day. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | c151 : Earnings | e1102 : Money Supply | gcon : Consumer Affairs | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | e1202 : Interest Rates | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cknowm : Knowledge Management | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100430e64g000m9
  


 HD
 Q4  2009  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
14,768 words
   PD
20 January 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to today's teleconference. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). Please note today's call's being recorded. It's now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Brian Moynihan and Joe Price begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. And with that, let me turn it over to Brian.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN, CEO & PRESIDENT, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning, and thank you for joining us on this busy day on our earnings call. Over the past several years I've met or spoken with many of you regarding the various businesses that I've run within Bank of America, and in my new role as CO I would tell you that I'm honored to serve this Company, its customers, associates and, importantly, its shareholders. I firmly believe that we have built one of the best franchises in the industry, if not the best, with the ability to serve customers and clients of all types on a global basis. My team and I plan on leveraging our leading market positions with capabilities that we believe match or exceed our competitors. Our goal is to refocus our efforts here at Bank of America, refocus our efforts and attention on those core capabilities that will make Bank of America a winner in the years ahead, drawing on our long tradition of operational excellence and strong execution.

I know there's several banks and several companies reporting this morning, so I know that you're anxious to get directly to the numbers. So for the firs -- fourth quarter of 2009 Bank of America had a net loss of $194 million before the $5 billion impact of preferred dividends and repayment of TARP, which results in a loss of about $0.60 per diluted share. Included in the $5 billion was $4.6 billion related to TARP-preferred stock, including the $4 billion associated with repurchasing TARP-preferred, as the book value of our preferred was less than the amount paid. For the full year 2009, before preferred dividends, net income was $6.3 billion, or a loss of $0.29 per diluted share after deducting preferred dividends and TARP repayment. TARP dividends and the TARP repayment for all of 2009 represented $0.94 per diluted share.

The financial crisis has taken its toll on our Company in many ways during 2009. With respect to our investment by the government, during 2009 we repaid the $45 billion of preferred stock; we paid dividends of $2.6 billion; we paid termination fees on a proposed asset wrap of $425 million; we paid about $3 billion in various insurance fees, including our normal FDIC expense; and we prepaid billions in FDIC premiums. In addition, we issued the government warrants to buy 122 million and 150 million shares of our Company at $30.79 and $13.30 respectively. In summary, these are heavy costs and representing just some of the challenge that our associates had to contend with in 2009 as they competed in the market, but with these behind us, we clearly look forward to 2010.

Moving to the revenue, total revenue for the fourth quarter of 2009 on an FTE basis was in excess of $25 billion, while pretax preprovision income was approximately $9 billion, even after the impact of some unusual items that Joe will detail a little bit later. There were several positive trends in the quarter. First, credit quality appears to be stabilizing, if not improving. Net credit losses in dollar terms decreased $1.6 billion from the third quarter of 2009, supporting our comments in October that overall credit costs were peaking. Second, the capital markets environment reflect a strong investment banking revenue, up substantially from our third quarter, which was already a strong quarter in the business, and we retained our second place position in that business. Next, results in our global wealth and investment management team continue to prove strong asset management fees and brokerage income driven by increasing markets and increased client activity. In addition, the number of our financial advisors have stabilized at 15,000.

Across our franchise new deposit generation maintained its positive momentum, with overall total corporate-wide average deposits of nearly $6 billion despite the substantial drop of $15 billion in wholesale funding. In addition, we continue to meet and exceed many of the milestones around both Merrill and Countrywide's integrations. Now unfortunately, any earnings impact of these positives are more than offset by continued high-level credit costs, lower customer activity due to the economic environment, and some other items that have been headwinds most of the year 2009. Total credit extended in the fourth quarter was $177 billion, including commercial renewals, versus $184 billion during the third quarter, as growth in our commercial areas was more than offset by lower mortgage production. The large components of this production for the fourth quarter were $87 billion in first mortgages, down from $96 billion in the third quarter, $66 billion in non-real estate commercial, $11 billion in commercial real estate. The remaining $13 billion includes $9 billion in other consumer retail loans and $4 billion in small business loans.

Despite these new extensions loan balances overall declined, principally due to charge offs, lower consumer spending, lower commercial client activity and a resurgence in the capital markets allowing larger corporate clients to issue bonds and equity replacing loans as a source for funding. We know that the companies -- our companies who are our clients continue to be very cautious and we're not yet seeing the typical business level activity for recovery.

As we move to provision expense, in the fourth quarter it decreased from the third quarter by $1.6 billion, driven by lower net charge offs. Credit costs included a $1.7 billion addition to reserves versus $2.1 billion in the third quarter. Roughly half of that reserve increase in the quarter was driven by a change in reserve coverage in consumer credit card to a full 12 months.

Let me make a few comments about the current economic environment. For almost six months now we -- many major economic indicators have been improving at the national and global levels, which hopefully indicates we've reached the bottom of the cycle. Our economic team here at Bank of America currently forecasts global growth in 2010 above 4%, led by emerging markets and growth in US GDP of about 3%. Embedded in that aggregate outlook our view is in four economic indicators we believe highly correlate to future economic performance.

First, the labor market. We believe we can anticipate positive job growth during the first half of 2010, but even with that the number of unemployed will remain very large for quite time and extend the drag on consumer spending and overall economic growth. Second, in the housing market, although home prices in the largest 20 markets have posted to back-to-back monthly price increases for the past few months, the potential new round of foreclosures supply represents some downside risk to that stability. Third, on household net worth, the recovery in the equity market and stabilization in home prices have led to recovery in total household wealth over the past several months, but consumer balance sheets, especially those of less-affluent customers, remain under stress. Fourth, the manufacturing, there's ongoing recovery in US manufacturing that's benefiting from a firming global economy, as you can see in the recent ISM survey results.

So all this tells you while things are improving slowly, the US economy remains fragile. For our Company, the recoveries and strong performance in our market-sensitive businesses offer diversification to offset the core credit headwinds we continue to face in our core commercial and consumer lending businesses. Although we believe we saw the peak in the third quarter, net loss levels remain elevated for the next several quarters. Additions to the reserve have come down and although there may be some additions in some business lines in the first half of 2010, overall we believe at the corporate level significant additions of reserve are hopefully over. While we still have several quarters before we can discuss the actual normalized earnings we believe the economy is stabilizing, markets are opening, and customer sentiment is improving.

Now at this point, let me turn it over to Joe for additional color and commentary on the numbers. Joe?

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Brian. Over the next few minutes I'll plan to cover the performance of each of our businesses; credit quality, the margin and some other topics including comments about 2010. But before getting into the business results let me highlight the large results that impacted earnings in the fourth quarter, and you can see this on Slide six. As most of you are aware, structured notes issued by Merrill Lynch are mark-to-market under the fair value option. This resulted in a hit to earnings of $1.6 billion, $4.9 billion for the whole year, on a pretax basis, primarily due to the narrowing of Merrill Lynch credit spreads. If you remember, the mark was a negative $1.8 billion in the third quarter. ow, as a reminder, the impact of mark in our structured notes does not impact Tier 1 capital. Looking forward, while most of the negative marks should be behind us, the Merrill Lynch spreads are still outside Bank of America's, but not by much. Additionally, our spreads are clearly outside predisruption levels.

On the credit valuation side, the adjustments on derivative liabilities -- and this is principally in our trading businesses -- resulted in a negative impact of $186 million versus the negative impact of $713 million in the third quarter. Our global markets revenue absorbed additional write-downs this quarter of $1.1 billion due to legacy positions versus a net positive of $218 million in the third quarter. Included here, on the commercial real estate side we took a charge of approximately $850 million. The remaining $250 million of marks were spread over leverage financed, structured credit trading, CDO exposure and auction-rate securities. Equity investment income included the pretax benefit of $1.1 billion, which was a write-up related to our BlackRock ownership driven by their equity issuance in connection with the BGI acquisition.

In noninterest expense we recorded over $500 million for litigation-related matters. In the fourth quarter tax rate, or the tax benefit of a loss, was higher than statutory due to tax benefits on certain foreign subsidiary restructurings in connection with our merger activities, as well as benefits from tax audit settlements. For 2010 we'd expect the effective rate to trend closer to statutory, less $1 billion to $2 billion in what I'd call recurring benefit, absent any unusual items or changes in tax rules.

Now let me quickly touch upon some of the highlights in each of the businesses this quarter. In our Deposit segment -- and this is on Slide eight -- earnings were $595 million in the quarter, down approximately $200 million from the third quarter. Net interest income of $1.8 billion was relatively flat with the third quarter, while noninterest income of $1.7 billion decreased $257 million, due mainly to the actions we highlighted in October around overdraft fee policy changes. We estimate the impact was about $160 million, in line with what we conveyed to you in October, with the rest of the decline coming from normal seasonality and to some extent customers better managing their cash flow. Non-interest expense of $2.4 billion was flat to the third quarter.

Now on Slide nine you can see average retail deposit levels for the quarter, excluding Countrywide ,were up almost $12 billion, or almost 2% from the third quarter, which we believe is quite strong. We continue to see a products mix shift from CDs to higher-margin liquid products, with checking products now representing 43% of the retail deposit balances. Merrill Lynch continues to show momentum, as financial advisors provide the customers with benefits and an expanded product suite through cross selling. And global card services -- and this is on Slide 10 -- we had a loss of $1 billion, in line with third quarter results. Revenue was down 2% from third quarter due to lower net interest income and fees. And although provision was almost flat, or down $51 million, managed net losses were down approximately $920 million.

Provision was impacted by an increase in the consumer credit card reserve coverage to 12 months -- and that was about $800 million -- and reserve additions for maturing securitizations, and that totaled about $550 million. These increases were partially offset by reductions in reserves for improvement in the domestic portfolios, and I'll come back and give you a little more on credit in a few minutes. Average managed consumer credit card outstandings were down 3.5% from the third quarter to $163 billion. Now on an encouraging note, and this is on a per average account basis, retail spending on credit card was up 8%, and debit was up 5% for the holiday season versus last year. We also continued to add new accounts, 586,000 new domestic retail and small business credit card accounts in the quarter, with credit lines totaling approximately $4 billion.

Now Home Loans and Insurance -- and you can see this on Slide 11 -- experienced production levels slightly below third quarter activity, but included better MSR hedging results. As a result, total revenue for the quarter was $3.8 billion, up $382 million from third quarter levels. Production income decreased $55 million, as higher margins were offset by lower production volume in secondary market gains. Now this is also the line item where we record reps and warranties expense, which was up a little this quarter, as well. Servicing income increased $447 million, primarily due to better MSR performance net of hedge results. Now the capitalization rate for the consumer mortgage MSR asset -- and that's versus a combined consumer and commercial you might see reported in the industry -- ended the quarter at 113-basis points versus 102-basis points in the third quarter, as interest rates were higher at the end of the quarter, lowering prepayment risk. The provision decreased $647 million to $2.2 billion, while net charge-offs decreased $462 million to $1.5 billion. Additions to the reserve of $748 million for the quarter were down $185 million, with most of the reserve addition associated with our home equity purchased impaired portfolio.

Fourth quarter first mortgage fundings for the corporation were $87 billion, down 9% from the third quarter, or $96 billion, which was reflective of the rate environment. Approximately 42% of these fundings were for home purchases versus approximately 39% in the third quarter. Now we continued to maintain strong market share during quarter, which we estimate to be in the 23% to 24% range. Given the industry outlook for refinance and purchase transactions indicated by the Mortgage Bankers Association for 2010 volume of $1.3 trillion, about 40% less than last year, we'd expect lower production levels over the next few quarters.

Turning to Global Wealth Investment Management -- you can see this on Slide 13 -- they earned $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter, an increase of $1.1 billion from third quarter levels, due mainly to the BlackRock gain and lower provision. Asset management fees and brokerage income were up $75 million due to market valuations, but more importantly, increased sales and transactional activity offset by various other items. In addition, there were no charges for supporting the cash funds versus the approximately $135 million of support in the third quarter. As a reminder, Columbia's money market funds no longer have exposure to structured investment vehicles. Now provision was down approximately $460 million, due to an improved credit outlook for the consumer real estate side and the absence of a large fraud loss in the third quarter.

Assets under management ended the quarter at $750 billion, up $10 billion from the end of September, and the improvement in the market and positive flows generated by advisors were partially offset by continued outflows in the Columbia cash complex. We ended the quarter with over 15,000 financial advisors, up slightly from the end of September, and with improved retention trends throughout the quarter. Also, as you already know, we finalized details on the sale of a long-term asset management business of Columbia to Ameriprise and that's expected to close in the second quarter of this year. Using the low end of the range we disclosed we believe this will have minimal P&L impact, but we expect to monetize nearly $800 million of good will intangibles, thereby improving capital slightly.

Now Global Banking -- and you can see this on Slide 14, and remember that this encompasses our commercial bank, corporate bank and the investment bank -- had an increase in earnings of $224 million versus the third quarter, due mainly to improved investment banking income and lower credit costs. And although commercial and corporate clients are being cautious given the economy and loan demand down is down, we continue to see improving liquidity un the cap -- in the credit markets, with credit spreads and market prices more reflective of the underlying risk. Provision expense decreased 12% to $2.1 billion, while net charge-offs decreased 18% to $1.4 billion. And we did continue to add to reserves during the current quarter, $627 million, mainly associated with commercial real estate, slightly higher than the addition in the third quarter. Average loans as reported for the quarter were down 4% from the third quarter, as clients continued to aggressively manage working capital and operating capacity levels. In doing so, the clients continued to take advantage of the robust bond markets to manage bank debt levels and build cash in anticipation of a stronger economy. As a result, we saw average deposit levels increase $15 billion, or almost 7% from the third quarter.

Investment Banking fees across markets and banking were up $746 million -- and this is detailed on Slide 15 -- to $2.1 billion before the elimination of self-led deals. The combined Bank of America-Merrill Lynch franchise ranked number two in global and US investment banking fees in 2009. Now Global Markets -- and you can see this on Slide 16 -- earned $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter, down almost $1 billion from the third quarter. Lower sales and trading results, combined with higher write-downs on legacy assets, drove the decrease. As you can see on Slide 17, Sales and Trading revenue in the fourth quarter was $2.2 billion versus $5.3 billion in the third quarter. Now absent the legacy asset charges, on a business-as-usual basis we saw $3.3 billion, reflecting the normal seasonal slowdown. Both fixed income and equity income declined, although rates in currencies and commodities within fixed income held up well. Lower market volatility, a reduction in risk appetite of customers, especially in the last couple of weeks of the quarter, and the normal seasonal slowdown contributed to the decline in revenue. However, we've seen a typical strong start to January on the back of the seasonally-slow December.

Noninterest expense was down 11% from the prior quarter due to lower incentive comp, and we detail on Slide 18 a number of the most pertinent legacy exposures in the capital markets business, and further detail is provided for you in the supplement. As I noted earlier, the charges we took this quarter were centered in the in the commercial real estate area and from the legacy of predisruption asset standpoint we remain the most focused on commercial real estate and [monitor] line credit default swaps, as you might imagine. Now, not included in the six business segments is Equity Investment income of approximately $800 million in the fourth quarter, due mainly to improved market valuations. In addition, on a consolidated basis we had security gains of approximately $1 billion, partially offset by impairment charges on non-agency RMBS of approximately $200 million.

Now let me switch to credit quality and that starts on Slide 20. We told you last quarter that we thought we were close to the peak in total net losses and it appears that that's the case. It feels to us like we're moving from stability to an actual improvement, but obviously, given the weak economy, we remain cautious. In the fourth quarter we saw improvement in almost all categories, including delinquencies, excluding our Jenny May repurchases, which I'll discuss in a minute, losses and criticized levels. Consumer credit losses continued to show the flow through an improved early stage delinquencies earlier in the year, in the unsecured lending portfolios and some stabilization in consumer real estate. Commercial portfolios reported lower charge-offs as a result of slower deterioration and slightly improved asset valuations, although commercial real estate will continue to lag the consumer recovery.

The rate of downward risk migration in the criticized loans is clearly slowing. Fourth quarter provision of $10.1 billion exceeded net charge-offs, reflecting the addition of $1.7 billion to the reserve, which was lower than the addition of $2.1 billion in the third quarter. Consumer reserve additions were $1.3 billion, and approximately $800 million related to increasing our reserve coverage on consumer credit card to 12 months. About $550 million was added for card securitization that matured and came on the balance sheet during the quarter. We also added approximately $540 million associated with the Countrywide purchased impaired portfolio. And in consumer real estate loans we increased reserves by $270 million. These increases were offset by reductions in other products, where delinquencies continue to improve.

Now on the commercial side we added $560 million for commercial real estate, primarily for non-home builder, and reduced reserves in small business by $280 million, as credit quality continued to improve, partially due to stricter lending criteria that we implemented earlier in the year. Our allowance for loan and lease losses now stands at $37.2 billion, or 4.16% of our loans and lease portfolio. Our reserve for unfunded commitments is $1.5 billion, bringing total reserves to $38.7 billion. Now, I'll give you more details in a minute, but based on an estimated position of $11 billion in reserves related to the adoption of FAS 166 and 167, effective January 1 of this year, our credit reserve on a pro forma basis would be just under $50 billion, improvement in our reserve coverage of 416 -- 4.16% by 60 to 65-basis points. Now, on the held basis, net charge-offs across almost all of our businesses in the quarter decreased $1.2 billion, or 42-basis points from third quarter levels to 3.71% of the portfolio, or $8.4 billion. On a managed basis, overall net losses in the quarter decreased $1.6 billion to $11.3 billion, and of the $1.6 billion decrease the consumer decrease was 77%, or about $1.25 billion.

Even though loss rates were down this quarter, loss rates are somewhat distorted by reductions in balances, so that's why I continue to talk in dollar terms. Credit Card represents 54% of total managed consumer losses, and as you can see on Slide 22, managed consumer credit card net losses were $4.9 billion compared to $5.5 billion in the third quarter. Losses decreased due to a drop in early stage delinquencies in the second quarter of '09. If you couple that with 180-day charge-off policy, you can see what drove the reduction. 30-plus delinquencies in consumer credit card decreased $541 million, the third consecutive quarterly drop leading to the reserve actions that I mentioned earlier. Now obviously one quarter doesn't make a trend, but we feel much better about the loss levels this quarter and that they signal stabilization, if not an improvement trend. Now, a delay of recovery in the US economy beyond our expectations or unforeseen events can obviously keep pressure on [performance].

Credit quality in our consumer real estate business appears to have stabilized, given that home equity charge-offs were down, even excluding one-time items in the third quarter. Now before I get into the individual consumer real estate products, let me remind you of a couple of important drivers, as I have the last couple of quarters. Total consumer NPA's, which are highlighted on Slide 23, increased $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter compared to an increase of $1.9 billion in the third quarter, and now total $22.3 billion. This is primarily comprised of consumer real estate with the lion's share being first mortgages. Now there are a number of things affecting this portfolio, but as a reminder, we generally place consumer real estate on nonperforming at 90-days past due and take charge-offs at 180 days, at which time we write the loans down to appraised value. We perform quarterly valuation refreshes, taking additional write-downs as needed. We also have troubled debt restructures, or TDRs, which we explained last quarter, that are reflected as NPAs, even though most were not 90-days past due when the restructuring or modification was made. Now while our efforts are to responsibly keep all owners in their homes and paid as we think that reduces the overall cost, the impact is that the NPA number is elevated. However, once a loan has been evaluated under all of our various programs, if no other alternatives exist, the loan will be released into foreclosure or charged down.

Now, our residential mortgage portfolio -- and I'm on Slide 24 now -- showed net losses of $2.4 billion, or 207-basis points, in line with the third quarter. 30-plus delinquencies increased approximately $72 million before the impact from repurchasing delinquent government insured loans from securitizations, and that would be less than we would have seasonally expected. Repurchasing delinquent government insured loans from securitizations added $9.4 billion to the 90-plus days delinquency levels, although they're still insured. We repurchased those leans for economic reasons since we can finance them at a cheaper rate on the balance sheet and our risk exposure is the same, whether with a service or a holder of these assets, since they're insured.

Now, on the non-performing asset front we saw an increase of $1.2 billion, less than the $2 billion in the third quarter, reflecting the third quarter in a row of declining new non-performing loans and higher cures. Of the $17.7 billion of residential mortgage NPAs TDRs make up 17%. About 60%, or $10.7 billion of the NPAs, are greater than 180-days past due and have been written down to appraised values, which is considered when we evaluate our reserve adequacy. I should also note that we saw continued stabilization in severity and improvement in the average size of charge-offs this quarter. Our reserve levels were slightly increased on this portfolio during the quarter, representing 1.9% of period-end balances versus 1.87% in September. Now when we think of dollar loss level was most likely peaked, given the weakness in the economy and the continued pressure on home prices, we could see further deterioration in this portfolio.

Now, switching specifically to home equity -- and I'm back on Slide 25 -- net charge-offs decreased $410 million to $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter. This is the second quarter in a row with decreases after adjusting last quarter for the accelerated charge-offs related to an adjustment to our loss severities due to the protracted nature of collections under some insurance contracts. The drop was a bit greater than we expected, driven by improvement in later-stage delinquency performance, so we're a little skeptical that we can hold at this dollar level, as prior to December we'd have told you we didn't expect losses to be well into 2010. We'll have to see how this one plays out, but don't be surprised to see it bounce around a little before we see sustained quarter-over-quarter improvement. Now 30-plus delinquencies were flat, again better than seasonal expectations.

Non-performing assets in home equity, principally loans greater than 90-days past due, were essentially flat at $3.9 billion. 44% of our NPAs were TDRs where we believe we've improved the likelihood of repayment. And just over 80% of the non-performing home equity loan modifications in the fourth quarter of '09 were performing at the time of reclassification into TDRs. Now, in addition to about 20%, or approximately $790 million of the NPAs, were greater than 180-days past due and had written down on appraised values. We increased reserves for this portfolio to $10.2 billion, or 6.81% of ending balances, and that's 5.29%, excluding the purchased impaired loans, due to further deterioration in the purchased impaired portfolio.

Now Slide 26 will provide you deals on our direct and indirect loans, which includes the auto and other dealer-related portfolios, as well as consumer lending and that charge-offs in direct and indirect decreased 11% to $1.3 billion, or 5.2% of the portfolio. We saw the expected decrease of about $184 million in consumer lending charge-offs and expect hat trend to continue due to the improvements in delinquent amounts. Slide 27 shows the deals of purchased impaired Countywide portfolio, where charge-offs were lower this quarter. Las quarter we added $1.3 billion due to continuing deterioration. The addition this quarter of $540 million relates to further deterioration, as well as reassessment of modification benefits as we gain more experience with customers going through the modification process. Now as we did last quarter we provided more details on the slide for you, so I won't go through that any more. Now, looking forward I'd say this portfolio's valuation -- and remember, the purchased impaired portfolio is a life-of-loan reserved portfolio -- is most sensitive to HBI and our success under the modification programs. We would also expect the lion's share of charge-offs to come through in the next few quarters.

Now switching to our commercial portfolios -- and you can see this on Slide 30 -- net charge-offs decreased in the quarter to $2.3 billion, or 278-basis points, down in dollar terms about 14% from the third quarter, or 7% excluding approximately $190 million in fraud-related losses in the third quarter. Net losses in our $18 billion small business portfolio, which are reported as commercial loan losses, decreased $112 million to $684 million compared to increases in the past quarter. Small business losses look to have peaked as indicated by several linked-quarter declines of 30-plus delinquencies, as well as 90-plus delinquencies, which are down 11%. Excluding small business, commercial net charge-offs decreased $249 million from the third quarter. $1.6 billion represented a charge-off ratio of 205-basis points. The losses in the quarter were split 53% non-real estate and 47% real estate.

Within commercial real estate, net charge-offs decreased $128 million to $745 million representing a charge-off ratio of 4.15%. Home builder losses constituted 37% of commercial real estate losses and were down 26% from the third quarter. Non-home builder losses were down 6%, reflecting decreases in multifamily rentals and commercial land, offset somewhat by increases in retail and office. Now we wouldn't expect losses to peak in this portfolio until well into the year, if not near the end of this year. The losses will be a little lumpy and bounce around, so we don't read much into the decline this quarter, especially given the non-home builder deterioration.

Now commercial NPAs -- and this is detailed on Slide 31 -- rose $607 million, down 39% from last quarter, to $13.5 billion. 84% of the increase was due to commercial real estate, driven by non-home builder exposures, mainly retail, commercial, land, multifamily rentals and multiuse. Home builders dropped again this quarter by 7%. Now, let me give you a little color behind the makeup of our commercial NPAs. Commercial real estate makes up about 60% of the balance, or about $8.1 billion, with about $3.2 billion, or 40% being home builders. Outside of commercial real estate NPA balances are concentrated in housing-related and consumer-dependent portfolios within commercial domestic. The most significant of these industries are commercial services and supplies -- and here think realtors, employment agencies, office supplies, et cetera -- at 5% of the total commercial NPAs, followed by individuals and trusts at 4% and media at 3%. No other industry comprised greater than 2%. Approximately 90% of the commercial NPAs are collateralized and approximately 35% are contractually current. Total commercial NPAs are carried at about 75% of original value before considering loan loss reserves.

Now on a pretty encouraging note, reservable criticized utilized exposure in our commercial book actually decreased $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter compared to an increase of $2.9 billion in the third quarter, and is the first decrease since 2006. This decrease reflected declines in commercial non-real estate, both domestic and foreign, offset somewhat by an increase in real estate. This increase in commercial real estate to $23.8 billion was driven mainly by increases in office, multifamily rentals, and hotels and motels. Now, as I mentioned earlier, we added the commercial reserves in the fourth quarter, of which almost all was related to commercial real estate. Total commercial reserve coverage at the end of December increased to 2.96% of loans, with real estate coverage being 5.14%.

Now let's move off credit quality and talk about net interest income, and here I'm on Slide 34. Compared to third quarter, on a managed and FTE basis net interest income was up $50 million. Managed core NII increased a little better than expected by approximately $140 million, while market-based NII decreased about $90 million. The core NII increase was driven by several factors, including less of a credit drag, principally due to the improvements we saw in credit card performance, improved hedge results, increased deposit balances, and the lack of a few one-time negative items in the third quarter. Now offsets were lower loan levels and some initial impacts of not repricing for risk in the card book. The core net interest margin on a managed basis increased seven-basis points to 3.74%. Now looking forward, remember, we took down the discretionary portfolio during 2009 and also experienced paydowns. Loan demand has been weak and we would expect it to stay that way until business and consumer confidence improve, and as I just mentioned, we've lost some ability to reprice for risk in the card book. These factors will suggest we'll see a decline in core managed net interest income this year from 2009 based on the current forward curve. Now also remember, you always get a negative first quarter impact due to fewer days in the quarter.

Now on the positive side, once we see the economy strengthen and rates begin to increase beyond what's in the forwards, we should see less credit drag, [stronger asset] growth, and deposit cost benefits. To that point, our interest rate risk position continues to be asset sensitive, as you see from the bubble charts on Slide 35, where we benefit as rates rise and are exposed as rates decline. That position is relatively unchanged from how we were positioned at the end of September. Keep in mind, these impacts are based off changes to the forward curve and are relative to our base forecast. While we remain cautious about the economy, we continue to believe an asset-sensitive position makes sense, especially given the low absolute level rates.

Now, let me say a few things about capital, and you see this on Slide 38. The Tier 1 capital ratio at the end of December was 10.4%, down 206-basis points from the third quarter, due mainly to our repayment of TARP. However, the equity raise associated with the TARP increased Tier 1 common 138-basis points to 7.81% while our tangible common equity ratios increased to 5.57%. Now as a reminder, the appreciation above our current carrying value for BlackRock or the China Construction Bank is included -- nor cap -- China Construction Bank is included in net capital. Preferred dividends this quarter were $5 billion, of which $4.66 billion was associated with TARP, including the negative impact of repayment, or 54% per share per quarter given no tax benefit. Excluding TARP, preferred dividends during the quarter were $340 million, which is approximately the level we should experience going forward, and liquidity remains strong.

Now, since we raised significant amounts of equity and were quite active in the debt markets during the second and third quarters we didn't do any benchmark deals during the fourth quarter. And as of December 31, our time to required funding metric, the amount of time that the parent company can meet its debt obligations without new issuance, was 25 months. On secured long-term parent company debt maturities in 2010, including those from debt at the legacy, Merrill Lynch & Company holding company, will be approximately $46 billion spread over the course of the year and we'll continue to be opportunistic in assessing the debt markets in 2010, but probably will not match maturities, given our funding base and the asset levels.

Now, impacting both capital reserves effective January 1, 2010 will be the adoption of FAS 166 and 167, as I referenced earlier, and I'm on Slide 40 now. As most of you know, this involves the consolidation of certain assets that are currently carried off the balance sheet. In short, an adjustment will be made to the first quarter of the balance sheet that increases assets and the allowance for loan losses and decreases capital for the allowance increase. Other than geography, there's no impact to P&L. Currently, our best approximation is the net incremental increase in assets of approximately $100 billion. The largest component of this amount is a net interest of $67 billion due to consolidation of the credit card trust, comprised of a $90 billion increase in credit card receivables, less securitization assets already on our balance sheet, and an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Other components to the increase include $5 billion of home equity receivables and approximately $28 billion from consolidation of other special purpose entities, including our multi-seller conduits. Risk-weighted assets are currently expected to increase only $14 billion, as many of the credit card assets were already included in our calculation.

Also, remember we have a deferred tax asset limitation for Tier 1, so the full reserve charge pretty much hits capital. The additional allowance for loan losses is expected to be approximately $10.7 billion; $10 billion for credit card and $700 million for home equity, while the impact of regulatory capital is expected to be a reduction of approximately $10 billion, including the deferred tax limitation. Tier 1 and Tier 1 common impact is expected to be a reduction of approximately 70 to 75-basis points, while the impact of tangible common is expected to be a reduction of approximately 50-basis points. These estimates are on a fully phased-in basis. The bank regulators made optional a phase-in approach, but the benefits aren't very big. Now, this is a little heavier than we previously indicated due to the change in our credit reserving policy for credit cards that I mentioned earlier and a change in the capital rules affecting our conduits. Now, if the credit card loans come back on balance sheet we're reserve it at 12 months, which increased the impact of adoption on Tier 1 by, say, about 15-basis points.

We can also now drop the held-versus-managed discussion and you can see back on Slide 7. The impact of being card securitizations on the balance sheet in 2009 would have added $9.3 billion to net interest income, $2.1 billion to noninterest income, and increased provision or charge-offs by about $11.4 billion. Again, the impact nets to zero, but the geography changes. And as a reminder, we'll issue $1.7 billion in common stock to associates as part of year-end compensation and $3 billion through the sale of assets, which will increase capital.

Looking ahead to 2010 and in line with my earlier comments and Brian's remarks, we believe we are passed the peak in total credit costs, which is great news for us. I believe 2010 will be a tale of two periods; the first being gradual improvement in the economy and the second being a more significant improvement in consumer and commercial activity. During the first period we believe we'll see slow, but continued improvements in overall credit quality, about provisions and charge-offs dropping after adjusting for the impact of FAS 166 and 167, but this is obviously dependent on continued improvement of the economy. Now even though the economy appears to have stabilized, the ultimate level of credit losses and reserve actions will be dependent on whether the stabilization is sustained, as well as the duration of the credit cycle. But as Brian mentioned, assuming future economic performance is consistent with our outlook, we do believe significant reserve additions are over. However, certain segments in the commercial area are still deteriorating and probably won't stabilize of the turn until late in the year at best.

Now there'll probably be continued reserve additions for at least six months in commercial real estate and some lingering reserve additions in residential real estate. Revenue levels, at best, will be volatile, as the headwinds of a shrinking loan portfolio, the Card Act, Reg E and higher mortgage rates. More specifically, the Card Act will manifest itself throughout the year in net interest income, as the Act impacts our ability to risk-based repriced credit cards and in card income due to restrictions imposed on certain fees. Overall, after mitigation strategies, we still believe the impact will be some $800 million after tax related to consumer credit card in the US. We felt a little of this in the fourth quarter, but it'll ramp up in 2010. Likewise, we believe Reg E will impact service charges starting in the middle of the third quarter of 2010 for changes beyond those we instituted in 2009. We're still sizing the impact of net -- impact net of mitigation and how we think customers will behave and consequently we'll provide more guidance in the future.

Offsetting these headwinds should be lower provision, expense control, and potential growth in other businesses, like investment broker services, investment banking, trading, and commercial banking, but again, this is heavily dependent on market recovery. Whatever the scenario, we believe we're positioned quite well to take advantage of whatever the global economy offers. Now much of our performance will correlate with the domestic economy, but will also be influenced by the global economy.

With that, let me open it up for questions and I thank you for your attention.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Let's go first to the site of Glenn Schorr with UBS. Your line is open.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, thanks very much. So the positives have been pretty good, all things considered, can you give us a little clue on what you're doing on the asset side as there's, obviously, limited loan demand and your capital and liquidity ratios are pretty good?

JOE PRICE: Well, Glenn, obviously the asset side's correlated to the economy, and so you're correct. We're seeing a downdraft clearly because just of charge-offs, one matter, but loan demand is still weak. We are beginning to see, quite frankly, in some of the commercial regions a little pickup in the pipelines, but I would call it little and early, but you're beginning to see a little bit of that. The consumer businesses continue to have decreases and probably will again until you see a little more consumer confidence come around. Kind of leaves us with the discretionary portfolio and we did add to the discretionary portfolio through securities this quarter some, but we've got to remain reasonably cautious about where the curve is at this time, and so you did see some of that come in, but we'll be very measured as we do that going forward.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: So I think, Glenn, the simple way to think about it is in a -- as the economy continues to improve you'll see better fundamental loan demand and the issue before that is whether you're going to reflect the economy.

GLENN SCHORR: Got you. So I don't want to put words in your mouth, but is it fair to say really short, really high quality for now on the securities portfolio?

JOE PRICE: Well, we'll add some and we did this quarter. We added some with loan duration, mortgage-based stuff, but we also added some shorter duration. But if you think about the prepayments occurred in the mortgage book and the other -- in the other longer-duration assets that are going off, so we have some ability to replace some of that without giving us too much OCI risk, if you want to think of it that way, the high quality -- but high quality, yes.

GLENN SCHORR: And I apologize if you disclosed it and I just missed it, but do you give the duration of the securities portfolio -- average duration?

JOE PRICE: I think by the time the Q comes you'll see the details.

GLENN SCHORR: Got it, okay. Maybe this is somewhat related. Bank of America has a decent amount of debt coming due over the course of the next 12 to 18 months, but you also have capital and liquidity and the balance sheet's come in a little bit. Can you just talk about your expectations on the funding side?

JOE PRICE: Overall debt issuance?

GLENN SCHORR: Yes, overall debt issuance, yes.

JOE PRICE: As I mentioned before, given the liquidity base and given the asset side of the balance sheet, don't expect us to replace maturities completely. Now, we need to stay active and we will stay active and there are some attractiveness to the rate environment, et cetera, from that standpoint, so -- but the way you should look at it is -- and if you go back in my remarks you'll see we gave the actual numbers of what's coming due -- we'll continue to let some of that drift down as opposed to full replacement.

GLENN SCHORR: Good. And then I don't know if there's much you can say. In the prepared remarks you told us that the reps and warranty charge was a little bit higher, but there seems to be a mounting concern that those numbers start to add up. Is there any help that you can give us in terms of sizing the amount of claims against you from the various counter parties?

JOE PRICE: Yes. Obviously I don't want to go into the details on specific clients or customers or insurers from that standpoint, but think of it as -- and we've kind of gone through this, not recently, with some of the earlier days of -- right after the acquisition of Countrywide. There's several buckets. There are claims that come back from the GSD, there are claims that come back from purchasers of loans, think of that as private transaction. And then there's mono line wrap things. We continue to work each of those based on the claims that are presented. I wouldn't -- I'd be disingenuous if I didn't say people were throwing everything over the wall they can because they are in a view of trying to get something back. But look, this is a loan by loan, detailed review of the facts and circumstances, whether it's curable, whether the loan's been performing for an extended period, all practices and those things, and we reserve for it on a FAS 5 basis, think of it as quarterly. We book in the hundreds of millions of dollar kind of number, which is. I think I mentioned before, netted against the production income and we'll continue to do that. But, look, this is not a quick process. This is a multi-year extended process looking at individual credits.

GLENN SCHORR: And as -- and I appreciate that answer. As you go through it and as you start to have some experience on where replacements are needed versus cases you win, does that give you a good enough window into the future to be boosting reserves other than what the current billing is? In other words, you don't disclose to us what the size of the past originations and sales had -- in question are, or the reserves are, but people basically want to get a feel from you of whether or not you feel you're well enough reserves or if this is going to be persisting and mounting issue of the coming eight quarters?

JOE PRICE: Look, I think the way to think about it is Countrywide had a reserve, we adjusted that purchase accounting, we've been adding to it quarterly -- or dealing with it quarterly with the expenses each quarter since then and we'll continue to manage it that way. Yes, we do get more experience every quarter as we go through the individual loans. Remember, though, that we've had some pretty tough consumer real estate portfolios that have been wrapped by insurers. We exited a business back in '01 that we went through some of the same kind of exercises with, so the same team that has done those workouts, which I might add continue today from back then, and that's what I was talking about, the protracted nature of how this process works -- or the ones on it -- and so we do have quite a bit of experience in how to estimate on a FAS 5 basis and I'd only characterize the reserves that we are carrying as in the billions. So we feel pretty good about where we stand. But, look, we'll continue to get claims and we'll continue to work through it and this doesn't go away over night.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Hey, Matt.

JOE PRICE: Matt, how are you?

MATT O'CONNOR: I guess first on the credit side, Joe, you provide a lot of comments regarding specific loan buckets. It seems like some are trending up still a number [are inflicting here]. So as we think about total charge-off on a managed basis heading into 1Q, do we get a little tickup overall and then it starts to trend down from there, or how should we think about the [mass] charge-offs quarter to quarter?

JOE PRICE: Matt, I'll almost tell you you got to go back and think product by product, because as I mentioned before, commercial real estate, especially non-home builder, will be somewhat lumpy and episodic. Other components of the commercial side, especially small business, feels like it's on a downward trajectory. Core domestic, as you saw the reservable criticized drop, is an indicator that thinks steel more stable in that side, but obviously they're economic dependent. On the consumer side, again, I'd tell you to go back and look by product. Card, we saw pretty good change. We've seen probably a little more drop in delinquencies, but not quite at the same pace of the drop earlier, so that ought to factor into your thinking. And then on real estate, we feel pretty good about the levels that we're experiencing, but as I said in the comments, home equity is probably doing a little better than we might have expected, so it wouldn't surprise us to see that bounce around. And then the foreclosure market, or the houses coming on the marketplace potentially have an effect, although we feel we've got that as considered as we could, given the knowledge we've got.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think we've said that they'd remain elevated. I think you have to be careful about the speed of which the government works through the portfolios in terms of quarter-to-quarter linkage, but the overall balances and the most troubled portfolios have come down and the overall progress the team's made in collections effort is better, so you've just got to keep that in balance because the underlying economy is still not healed and unemployment's still high.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thanks. And then, Brian, a bigger picture question for you. We've seen you make a couple changes to the senior management team so as we think about the core businesses, any meaningful changes or deeper dives that you're taking now in terms of the products, the way that you deliver to customers or even the customers that you're targeting?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The business model's sound. In other words, the core customer base on the consumer side, whether mass market consumers and high net-worth (inaudible) consumers and then the small business, medium business, large businesses, and then the investor communities. That business model's sound, intermediating for our corporate clients to the investors, so don't look for us to make any changes. We've got a couple dispositions we have to make, but in terms of the core business model, it's sound, it operates, the market shares are there and it's just taking this massive customer base and taking the product capabilities and putting them together on better and better ways and driving them, whether it's a company or whether it's individual. So don't look for any management changes.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. I guess as a follow up, in terms of the size of the balance sheet, given that you're adding some securities here, it seems like you're comfortable with the overall size, plus or minus?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, it'll bounce around. We're talking about rel -- across our large balance sheet we're talking about relatively minor adjustments and then-- so it'll bounce around. There's no need to grow -- we have enough room to grow the core loans when they start to grow them within the size -- for a while just based on where we are, but don't expect it to bounce around -- to move dramatically either way.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from the site of Ed Najarian from ISI Group. Your line is open.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Hi, Ed.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Quick question on capital ratios. Given the changes you've outlined with regard to 166 and 167 and then obviously indicated continuing to build capital ratios with the common stock issuance and the $3 billion asset sale, but that still seems like it's going to bring us a little bit short of the 8.5% Tier 1 common ratio that you talked about when you did your equity offering. Have you had any follow-up discussions with the regulators as to where capital ratios need to get into '10 in light of your new outlook on 166 and 167? And should we think of the capital actions that you've outlined for 2010 as all that's required, or could there be more that's required?

JOE PRICE: Look, we don't talk specifically about conversations with regulators, we can't, so think of it more as the way as the way we look at the Company and we manage. We're pretty much in line with our expectations of capital. Now clearly, when we made the decision here in closing the books to change the reserve level coverage for card, that had an impact on the -- on this -- compared to the pro forma that we would have showed you it was based purely on 9-30. The outlook on capital, you've got a lot of things coming at you. You've got the market risk rules. You've got the Basel II pieces. You've got the -- I call it the December 17th proposals. A lot to work through over time. In the near term we think all of those are manageable and considered and the way we look at capital and how we came up with what we felt comfortable with in the raise from that standpoint, obviously supplemented by these few things still to get executed. So no -- at this point, no major contemplation of any other actions other than those, unless something falls out, as Brian said, as we look at the aggregate company for things from that standpoint.

ED NAJARIAN: So until we see some kind of additional clarity from regulators on capital ratios you wouldn't expect any additional actions other than the things you've already outlined?

JOE PRICE: At this point, no, not at this point.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, and then just a real quick follow-up, sort of housekeeping, mapping question. When we look at the Merrill Lynch structured note loss, I'm assuming that's in your income statement in other income and the marks on legacy assets is a net against trading account profits, is that correct?

JOE PRICE: Yes to the first part. The second part, it kind of depends. Some of that'll be in other also.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, a couple of questions. One is on the recision loans that was discussed a little bit earlier. Can I just understand how you think about what kind of NPL should fall out of these loans that you're buying? Are these all going NPLs, is the roll rates 100% NPLs, or what kind of experience have you had? And to what degree are you reserving for these, as you buy them versus as they perform relatively to expectations?

JOE PRICE: Are you talking about the insured loans that I referenced in the delinquency numbers, Betsy?

BETSY GRASECK: Yes.

JOE PRICE: Yes, those are -- think of those as government insured so they are performing past due -- not non-performing past due, so what I was trying to do is, if you pull our delinquency stature, if you look at them, you'll see a pretty big jump in the 30 and 90 and first mortgage past-due performing, and I didn't want you to get misled by that, so I was simply explaining what that was. So those are insured so they would in theory not carry a reserve. We -- obviously when you look at our reserve coverage numbers they're in the loans and so they kind of in essence distort that a tad, but in the grand scheme of things it's not that big.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, because you expect the insurance to pay?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Can you expect insurance to pay?

JOE PRICE: Yes, these are FHA type.-

BETSY GRASECK: Right, right. And then on the loans that you're buying from private investors, et cetera, that might not be wrapped same kind of question, are you reserving point in time of purchase, are you reserving as they perform relative to your expectations? Just give us the extent on that.

JOE PRICE: You mean basically rep and warranty questions --

BETSY GRASECK: Correct.

JOE PRICE: -- on the whole loan as opposed to --

BETSY GRASECK: Correct.

JOE PRICE: Few and far between. If you think about the hierarchy of reps and warranties think of them as probably be in the -- quite frankly they're probably the clearest in GSEs, mono lines are next and then in private sales the reps and warranties generally by this time are somewhat unenforceable, not from a data standpoint, but just from a lack of time and they've run out, so don't -- that ones -- I wouldn't put that one on your radar screen.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then you discussed the coming capital actions, which will add to common Tier 1, like the issuance of stock and then the asset sales that you're anticipating, as well as warrants, right? I think there's warrants outstanding in the money. Can you give us some sense as to whether or not that's going to be action that you take this quarter?

JOE PRICE: The warrants here, you're talking about the ones associated with TARP?

BETSY GRASECK: Correct.

JOE PRICE: Yes, those are warrants that -- I think we said in the press release when we did the TARP announcement and payback that we would not intend to repurchase those, so those presumably would be sold by the government that they're -- when they're ready to do that. We have certain registration activities we have to go through to go through to help them do that, but they'll do that at their own calling and you wouldn't see a capital impact of that, obviously, until those were either exercised or some kind of a current by whoever ultimately holds those. The other asset sales clearly that we had committed to increase capital by $3 billion, that process we're under way in a review consistent with what we talked about before to identify the appropriate either businesses and/or discretionary assets to make that claim. So those are the real two big things.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: The simple thing on the government warrants is, it won't be any capital hit to us because they'll be somebody else's hands.

BETSY GRASECK: Yes, some of it's in the money, so I'm just surprised that you haven't -- the actions hasn't started yet.

JOE PRICE: Yes. Well, let me -- the treasury hasn't sold them per se. Once they sell them, if they're in the money, somebody wants to exercise them. In other words, it won't be triggered by us I guess is the point.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, I understand that. Brian, could you just give us a sense of how you are going to be managing your team? What are the marching orders that you're going to be delivering to your group? Is it more top line, bottom line, market share, net new business? Could you just give us a sense of your priorities?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: If you look across the businesses they have different priorities. Obviously, in Sally and Tom's area the top line is there to get and they've got to drive at that and so they're going to drive more of a top-line driven with expenses matching and on a rational basis. If you look on the consumer side, Joe and Barbara and and the teams below them having worked over there, that's more matching. Really we're so big in the consumer business so the revenue growth will be measured and matching a good expense management capability against that and really dealing with, in both card and deposits, the changes and trying to figure out ways to recover some of those changes either through deposit pricing or other ways. So the challenges are different but the way I'm going to drive the team is consistent. We'll recognize the opportunities and challenges and drive the businesses -- these six or seven major businesses and customer groups along those -- along differentiated lines and being carefully driven. But we as a company will be grinding through, because of our size, revenue that will not outdistance the economy by a lot just because we're so big and we got to be realistic about it, but that means managing expenses and businesses that (inaudible).

BETSY GRASECK: Would you think about coming into the Market with some goals or targets that you're going to be assessing your management team against?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Yes, we will, and that's really as we get into the first quarter and go through that. This call's about last year's fourth quarter, so work with the management team now and so expect that as we get into some of the analyst conferences and the earnings release after the first quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: And then lastly, on the CFO search, could you just give us a sense of your timing on that?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: As soon as possible.

BETSY GRASECK: But obviously there's folks internal to BAC who I would think are in the running, as well. At what point do you cut off the external search?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think our intent to go external and so the process is already started and a list is starting to be -- the list of candidates are being approached and so stay tuned, but this is obviously a key hire for us as a Company.

BETSY GRASECK: Anything in particular that you're looking for?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Someone who's good.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Market. Your line is open.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. Brian, last year Ken Lewis talked about a pretax provision number of around $45 billion for 2009, which you basically came in at $45 billion, $50 billion number, and we know it's very volatile, but can you give us any guidance of where you think that number's going to shake out in 2010 and does it change now that you bring on the managed credit card portfolio and how much does it change by?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: We -- I can give you the guidance what we see in the fourth quarter, which is on the fourth or fifth page in here, but we're not going to give guidance about that for 2010. And I think for the question of whether your view or other analysts view of how you included the managed versus non-managed presentation I think is something we'll shake out here. So Lee and Kevin and some others makes sure people see how the 167, et cetera, comes through. But I think all of you should make sure we understand that, because there is a major difference in the card business contribution on (inaudible) basis that way. Overall, frankly, though in the card business, remember that we'll bring -- over time, in periods of time, that charge will come down, but that business will always have -- it's big at a charge-off rate that approaches what will be the normal environment. There'll still be -- you can't discount. It'll always be a relatively large dollar amount of charge-offs, even in good times, going through that business just because of the nature of it. So I think that -- with your sophistication, as you look at this you'll bring the managed in and then you'll figure out a normalized basis. Long answer say we won't put that on the table for 2010, but clarity on guidance to help manage (inaudible) we'll give you.

PAUL MILLER: Can you just touch base real quick on your cash position. You were about $120 billion. It's something a lot of people are looking at and hoping you can bring this back into the portfolio at some point and get a decent spread on, or is it something that the regulators -- I know you don't want to talk about regulators per se, but you saw the Basel cores -- Basel white paper, I guess, that talked about that banks have to -- should hold a lot higher liquidity. Is that something you're preparing for with this $120 billion of cash or plus, or do you think you can bring that back in and deploy that on the portfolio at some point?

JOE PRICE: Look, I think we probably don't think of it just as cash because you think of it more as how do you manage the liquidity and the liquidity can be redeployment into highly-liquid (inaudible) securities that have withstood these kind of downturns, so there's an opportunity to manage it from that standpoint. If you look at what we've done, though, here recently, clearly the payoff of TARP, net of the equity raise, was a use of cash. We've -- but we've also seen wholesale funding come down as retail deposits have gone up. We've let the debt footprint run off a little bit and we have redeployed some, as I referenced earlier, in securities. But clearly, the balance sheet is not what it was at one time if you look at all the combined entities. Going forward, I'd probably say I don't focus, again, as much on the individual line item as I do the overall liquidity. You are correct that world has changed and I don't think people are going to run -- anyone's going to run the kind of liquidity levels you saw before the disruption, so we will have "elevated liquidity," but don't think of it as having to stay in cash is probably the best way to think about it.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

JOE PRICE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And let's move next to the site of Jefferson Harralson with KBW. Your line is open.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KBW: Thanks, good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: I was going to ask you about your loan modification experience, and recidivism rates, I see, in your non-asset -- nonperforming asset activities there's a large increase in the return to performing status and your consumer loans that went from $1 billion to roughly $2.2 billion. Can you talk about what drove that number, a large increase of return to performing status and your experience with loan mods and recidivism rates?

JOE PRICE: Yes, we tried to give you -- and this wouldn't be all loan mods by any mean, but we tried to give you the TDR numbers. If you look in that slide package at both home equity and first mortgage we try to give you the experience of what is paying to modify terms so you can actually see that. We do -- actually we feel pretty good about it. Think of -- and think of those as having to be six months of performance, either leading up to the modification side they would have been current leading into it, or if they are put in nonperforming that modification having to -- or had been on nonperforming they'll have to have six months performance before they actually go. So think of the stats I gave you in those two slides as being indicative of our view of a big subset being the TDRs. And I think on an overall basis we would say that the modifications done over the last few quarters probably will have better reperformance than those done early on because the early on ones, especially let's call it early on in '08, may not have had quite the level of borrower relief embedded in them, so I think it'll get better over time is the way we're looking at it.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: And asking a similar question on the commercial side, are you seeing the interagency white paper on change in how you look at commercial real estate more focused on cash flows versus appraisals, are you seeing that have an impact on how you look at nonperformers, or is it slowing down the inflow of new NPLs?

JOE PRICE: No, not given the cash flow lending mechanism, the view that we've always had it really doesn't change our view.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Okay, thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Mike Mayo with CLSA. Your line is open.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning.

JOE PRICE: Good morning.

MIKE MAYO: One real factual question and then a real conceptual question. The factual question is, what is the line utilization for your commercial borrowers?

JOE PRICE: Stayed at about -- I think bouncing between 57%, 58%. Stayed there this quarter compared to last quarter, so we've seen stability in that line.

MIKE MAYO: 57%, 58%?

JOE PRICE: Yes.

MIKE MAYO: And wasn't that close to the all-time low, though?

JOE PRICE: Yes. We're kind of in that trough, but it's kind of leveled in that trough as opposed to continuing is the way to think about it.

MIKE MAYO: Okay.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Mike, rather than give specific percentages because it's a little -- it's going different in middle market areas, but the point is, is that commercial clients are drawing it to the lowest levels we've seen in a long time because they just don't have the demand and that's something that's stabilized, but that's where they sit.

JOE PRICE: Stabilized low basically.

MIKE MAYO: But you're willing to offer them the loans, they just aren't borrowing?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: That's what -- they have the capacity to borrow, assuming on the borrowing restrictions, then they have to build inventory receivables and stuff to actually get the cre -- the capacity, but the structure's there for them to borrow if they have the demand.

MIKE MAYO: Why do you think they're not borrowing? Why don't you think the demand is there?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think they are looking at the economy. When we talk to them they're looking the at economy the same way we are, saying it feels better but until I see some fundamental demand build up I'm going to hire or build up inventories in expectation of sales. Now, the internet and the global companies are a little bit better because the international piece is a little stronger, but they're just cautious. They're cautious unemployment levels and they've done a very, very good job as a group to get themselves underneath this economy and they're not going to blow it now, so they're being very cautious.

MIKE MAYO: And then the big picture question, Brian, since it's the first call since you were CEO, there are a couple of questions went in this direction, but when I think of Hugh McColl in the '90s he wanted to build the biggest bank in America, that was his goal. When I think of Ken Lewis last decade he wanted to create on of the most optimized banks and the most efficient banks. As we think about what you want to achieve in a big picture sense, are you able to articulate really what you want to achieve, or will that take some more time?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think from a broad basis the mission will be to be the best financial services firm in the world and balance between the goals of Hugh and Ken and others, which is we've got to make sure that we really do a great job with the consumers and that's customers and clients overall in the consumers. Right now that's a little difficult because of the economy, but balance between the customers and associates and the shareholders. So it's not a different thing. It's just that we are at a point where we don't have to think about do we need a product or service, we're just at a point that we need to execute. I know that sounds simple to say, it's hard to do, but it is absolutely critical, and will generate a lot of cash out of this franchise as the economy recovers.

MIKE MAYO: And then last follow up. The balance between customers, associates and shareholders, is that balance changing? Is it changing so much it might hurt your ability to compete? You might add a fourth category, the government or regulators, too, how is that balance changing?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Well, I think if you think about the industry we are adjusting to the -- Mike, you know the rating changes and Card Act and so as that -- those questions come in we have to figure out -- and our job as management figure out how we're going to get a return on your capital and your investment given those challenges. And we have very bright people, we have a very good franchise, a great customer base. We don't -- it's not going to be an insurmountable hurdle, but the rules have changed and we've got to take that into account. But the belief in that is, that's because customer behavior's changed and the impact on some of the things we did over the last ten years on the customer didn't come out the way they did in tougher economic times and we have to reconfigure them.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein. Your line is open.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Good morning, John.

JOHN MCDONALD: What are your opportunities for expense leverage in 2010 and beyond? And Joe, is the fourth quarter expense a good run rate for 2010, and could you remind us what kind of cost saves you might have incrementally from that run rate?

JOE PRICE: Well, think about the -- I think I mentioned that we had some heavy litigation cost, remember in the third quarter we had wrap costs to exit the proposed wrap, so that's one item that's floating in there. On your -- you also had some continued leverage coming out of the acquisitions, but quite frankly, we got more this year out of Merrill Lynch's expense base than we might have anticipated and until the "systems changes" come in, which will be -- think of them as later next year rather than earlier, you may be at a run rate here for a few quarters on expense saves that doesn't take another leg up until a little bit later into next year. You also -- obviously you have let's call it revenue-driven expense items, (inaudible) business and others that were down this quarter would have had lower expense component compared to that. It goes back to Brian's point about how we're managing those businesses and which ones we're pushing, but those are all the dynamics working on this.

Obviously remember Q1 always has this weird animal with FAS 123R that levels out, but that'll be elevated with a larger market platform this year, this year being 2010, things of that nature. So that's the backdrop you're working under. I think to the point of the individual businesses, if you go back to Brian's comments about how he's managing the Company, clearly on some of the businesses there we'll be looking for very tight expense control given the dynamics of the revenue side. Others hopefully will drive revenue up that will have expense growth associated with it from that standpoint. So I think you've got a reasonable base if you take those things into consideration to work with.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and I apologize if you mentioned it. Do you have any color on the comp ratio in the investment bank in the fourth quarter and what -- any impact from changes in the mix of compensation between cash and stock?

JOE PRICE: Well, I think you should think of us as migrating towards the Bank of America policy, which traditionally would have had a heavier deferred component than maybe the Merrill one at certain times in their history. Think of the add on this year, although we call it expense in the current year, for the TARP repayment contribution by the associates being $1.7 billion. That would be an added on top of your normal comp payout, deferred portion versus current. Now they're entitled to that stock day one so you get to expense it, but you can't transfer it until later from that standpoint. So that'd be the way to think about the mix. In terms of the ratios, we don't give the specific ratios for just the markets business. You can look at Tom's individual business line, but you got to remember part of the investment bank was in the banking group, et cetera, but we don't give the specifics for that particular unit.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and last follow up, Joe. A quick review of the puts and takes on your margin outlook. What are the sources of incremental downside pressure you mentioned going into '10 and don't you have some off debts is from maybe relief of interest reversals as we get out further?

JOE PRICE: Well, we've actually not had this quarter -- that was one of the items that drove us to a little better than expected performance this quarter in the margin. I'd say the credit drag on the margin dropped by about $1.5 billion. Think of it as closer to $1 billion this quarter and it was about $1 billion, $1.50 billion. I'm rounding, but generally speaking. That'll continue to abate as credit quality gets better, although you may have seen -- as I mentioned, just talking about charge-offs, may have seen a bigger improvement in Card last quarter if you just track delinquencies than you might see here going for at least for the near term, but that'll be a positive. We have lower loan levels, flat out, and then some of those are in your higher margin levels. We have a lower discretionary book year over year, again, as opposed to linked quarter. That'll have a drag on us. And then the repricing of risk in the Card book will be something we have to manage through.

On the other side, though, clearly, as we move into a higher rate environment you see the benefit of our deposit base flip from stability, which is how you see it today, to lower funding costs coming out of this thing, so that's a positive. Clearly as the economy begins to recover or you get the loan growth back and all of those other factors then we'll be able to reassess the discretionary side also as we come into more strength in the economy.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: We'll take our final question from the site of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. If you could give a little more color about how the actions that you've taken in terms of loan modifications and other forbearance have affected charge-offs now and how you think that pattern might be reflected in the next couple of quarters and how we should think about that with respect to the reserve over first half or several quarters of 2010?

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: I think on the charge-off side, modifications -- as I referenced earlier, Moshe, you've got to have performance -- subsequent performance to keep them from continuing to deteriorate from a delinquency standpoint, nd so I would say that the only effects they have had on actual charge-offs are where we've had actual performance that kept them out of those buckets that would roll into the charge-off delinquency status. It's hard to theorize on had we not made the modification exactly how many would or wouldn't have gone, so that's a difficult thing to view. From a reserving standpoint, it's -- you're correct. You can think about it more. You saw the action we took on the impaired portfolio. Part of the charge this quarter was a reassessment as we've gotten more familiar with customer behavior, ie, how many customers actually take the modification, how many of them are -- get -- flush the gamers through the system, get to the real people that need them, et cetera, so that's one of the reasons you saw us take reserve action there. We're probably carrying a little more reserve in a couple of the other consumer real estate products in anticipation of continued some level of redefault in our projections and things like that, so that's the conceptual way, but I don't have any numbers to put around it for you.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay, but it seems reasonable that the -- I don't want to say excess reserves, but that the reserves have built -- have certainly at least built in that for activity and to the extent it is worse than there should be, at worst adequate reserves and potentially some excess to be recovered?

JOE PRICE: Subject to the economy.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right.

JOE PRICE: Subject to my other rule changes that might come out I guess is the way to think about it.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay, thanks very much.

BRIAN MOYNIHAN: Thank you, everyone, and we will see you next time.

OPERATOR: And this concludes today's teleconference. Have a great day. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | c151 : Earnings | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | gcon : Consumer Affairs | gfraud : Fraud | e1102 : Money Supply | e1106 : Consumer Credit/Expenditure/Savings | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | c335 : Franchises | csched : Announcements of News Conferences/Calls | ntra : Transcript | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | c33 : Contracts/Orders | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime | glife : Living/Lifestyle | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100203e61k000ru
  


 HD
 Q3  2009  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,155 words
   PD
16 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the teleconference. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions) We will take questions in turn following the presentation. Please note that today's call is recorded. It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include among other things -- changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rate, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. With that, let me turn it over to Ken.

KEN LEWIS, CEO & PRES., BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Kevin. Good morning, and thanks for joining our earnings review. Before we get started, I want to say a couple of things to the investment community. This is the first time I have addressed you since my announcement to retire. I just wanted to say thank you for the support you have shown me during my time with you as well as the support you have shown the Company. It has been a pleasure to lead Bank of America and to interact with all of you. As I have said before, we have a vast amount of talent in the Company, and we have market-leading positions in geographies, businesses, and distribution capabilities that are the envy of the industry. I have no doubt that Bank of America will thrive. In my absence will not slow the momentum that is starting once again to move this Company forward.

While it is never easy to talk about earnings when you are reporting a loss, there's several things this quarter that indicate that there are better days ahead. Frankly, earnings this quarter were fairly consistent with the expectations we discussed three month ago. We indicated in July that profitability would be tougher in the second half of the year versus the first half due to the absence of several unusual positive items that helped first half earnings. As well as due to the normal seasonal drop in revenue that occurs in the second half. We did experience the seasonal impact, and although revenue overall dropped in the third quarter, results were better in some businesses than the normal seasonal pattern. Overall, the pace of deterioration and credit quality slowed and was somewhat better than expected in several portfolios. On the negative side, earnings reflected the impact of the charge for terminating the government asset guarantee term sheet, associated with the Merrill acquisition, as well as the negative accounting impact associated with the improvement in our credit spreads. But as I said last quarter, I would rather see the operating improvements and take the accounting loss that come with our Company's improving spreads.

For the third quarter of 2009, Bank of America had a net loss of $1 billion before preferred dividends, or a loss of $0.26 per diluted share after deducting preferred dividends of $1.24 billion, including almost $900 million related to the government TARP. The termination of the government asset guarantee term sheet resulted in an expense of approximately $400 million in the quarter, the mark on the Merrill structured notes was a negative $1.8 billion. The mark on the Company's own derivative liabilities was $700 million. Total revenue on an FTE basis was in excess of $26 billion, while pre-tax, pre-provision income was approximately $10 billion, including the impact of the $3 billion of negative items just mentioned.

There was several positive trends in the quarter. The balance sheet continues to be managed prudently resulting in lower risk-weighted assets, increased liquidity, and improved capital ratios. As we experienced in the second quarter, Merrill Lynch continued to provide a significant contribution to operating revenue. The capital markets environment was better than expected, and resulted in a 37% increase in sales and trading revenue and solid investment banking revenue although down seasonally from the previous quarter. Results in global wealth and investment management reflected higher management asset fees, and brokerage income driven by increased client activity and stabilization among our financial advisors. [New deposit] generation maintained its positive momentum with overall corporate-wide average deposits up more than $14 billion.

We continue to meet or exceed many of the milestones around both the Merrill and Countrywide integrations. Finally, and not the least, we believe we may have peaked in total credit losses this quarter, although the levels going forward will continue to be elevated and certain businesses will still experience higher losses. Unfortunately in the earnings impact of these positives this quarter were more than offset by continued high level of provision expense, lower customer activity due to the economic environment, and the other items that I have just mentioned. Total credit extended in the third quarter was $184 billion, including commercial renewals, versus $212 billion has in the second quarter. The larger components were $96 billion in first mortgages, $66 billion in non-real estate commercial, and $8 billion in commercial real estate. The remaining $14 billion includes other consumer retail loans and small business loans. Despite these new extensions, loan growth overall declined due to lower consumer spending and a resurgence in the capital markets, allowing corporate clients to issue bonds and equity, replacing loans as a source of funding. Additionally, companies continue to be very cautious, and we are not seeing the level of seasonal inventory builds or capital expenditure spending at any meaningful level. Provision expense in the third quarter decreased from the second quarter by $1.7 billion, but included a $2.1 billion addition to the reserves. And that is versus a $4.7 billion in the second quarter.

Now before turning it over to Joe, let me make a couple comments about the current environment. Merrill Lynch continued to be accretive to earnings year-to-date, as these market sensitive businesses offer diversifications to offset the core credit headwinds we are facing. Although expected to peak this year, net loss levels will continue to remain high going into 2010. Additions to the reserve will most likely continue at least through the fourth quarter, but as you saw this quarter, the level reserve addition is down substantially. We continue to position the balance sheet to ride out the recession, which you can see in our delevering actions earlier this year, shrinking certain asset positions and substantially adding to reserve levels.

Our outlook for the economy is close to the consensus view with unemployment peaking around the 10% level. We believe the pace of new bankruptcy filings for individuals have slowed somewhat but still see some additional pressure on home prices. Based on this economic scenario, results in the fourth quarter are expected to continue to be challenging as we close the year. While we still have several quarters before we can discuss actual normalized earnings, we believe that the economy is stabilizing and customer sentiment is improving. At this point, let me turn it over to Joe for additional color and commentary.

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken. I plan over the next few minutes to cover the performance of each of our businesses, credit quality, and some other topics. But before getting into business results, let me highlight the large items that impacted earnings in the third quarter, and you can see these on Slide Five. As most of you are aware by now, structured notes issued by Merrill Lynch which are mark-to-market under the fair value option, resulted in a hit to earnings of $1.8 billion on a pre-tax basis due to narrowing credit spreads. If you remember, the mark was a negative $3.6 billion in the second quarter. Now as a reminder, the impact of marking our cash liabilities does not impact Tier One capital. Credit valuation adjustments on derivative liabilities -- and these are principally in our trading businesses -- were revalued resulting in a negative impact of $714 million, versus a negative impact of $1.6 billion in the second quarter. Again, a good thing, but still negative to earnings. Market disruption valuation adjustments this quarter in our global markets business were actually a net positive of $200 million.

On the CMBS and related exposure side in global markets, we took a charge of approximately $600 million related to exposures in the hotel industry and equity investments. On our remaining CDO-related exposure, we recorded a loss of $138 million. These negative charges were offset by positive marks in legacy assets, primarily on the recovery of value on exposures wrapped by monetary lines. This enabled us to recover a portion of the valuation allowances against the reduced receivables from monolines. Now the third quarter tax rate, or a tax benefit of the loss, was higher than statutory due to a shift in the geographic mix of our earnings globally. In the fourth quarter, we expect the effective tax rate to trend toward statutory absent any unusual items.

Now let me quickly touch upon some highlights in each of the businesses this quarter. In our deposits segment on Slide Seven, earnings were $798 million in the quarter, up from $509 million in the second quarter. Net interest income of $1.7 billion was flat with the second quarter, while non-interest income of $1.9 billion increased to 10%. Non-interest expense of $2.3 billion declined 11% due to the absence of the FDIC special assessment charge that was incurred in the second quarter.

Now on Slide Eight, you can see average retail deposit levels for the quarter, excluding Countrywide, were up almost $8 billion or 1.2% from the second quarter, which we believe is above industry growth. We continue to see product mix shift from CDs to higher margin checking accounts. Now Merrill Lynch continues to show momentum here as financial advisors provide the customers the benefits of an expanded product suite. Checking balances now represent over 40% of our retail deposit base.

Now in late September, we announced changes to our overdraft fee policies. These changes were intended to help customers avoid excessive overdrafts by better managing their finances. As a result of these changes, future fee revenue streams will be negatively impacted beginning in the fourth quarter. We are assessing proactive strategies to further strengthen consumer trust, and more evenly balance our fee structure across our entire customer base. Additionally as most of you are aware, the Federal Reserve is expected to issue a final ruling in the fourth quarter addressing Reg E. The proposed ruling may further impact our fee revenue on a go-forward basis. We will be more explicit about the impact once the final ruling is known. But as things currently stand, given the changes we made, absent any mitigating actions, I would expect revenue to be negatively impacted between $150 million and $200 million in the fourth quarter.

The Global Card Services is on Slide Nine. Although a loss of $1 billion was recorded, this was an improvement over the second quarter results by almost $600 million, due mainly to lower managed provision expense. Both managed revenue and expense levels were flat with the second quarter. Provision dropped $766 million, due to reserve reductions of approximately $560 million this quarter, which occurred in consumer credit card, consumer lending, and small business, as delinquencies improve. I will come back to this in a minute as we actually reduced reserves $1.2 billion, but we had to put up reserves about $600 million, associated with the maturing credit card securitizations. Average managed consumer credit card outstandings were down 2.4% from the second quarter, to $168 billion. In the third quarter retail purchase volume -- and this would be both debit and credit volume -- was flat with the second quarter, although down 7% from a year ago. We continue to add new accounts. 700,000 new, domestic retail and small business credit card accounts in the quarter with credit lines of approximately $4.5 billion.

Home loans and insurance, and you can see this on Slide 10, experienced an increase in mortgage rates for most of the quarter, although we have seen a drop in the 30-year, fixed rate closer to 5% at the end of the quarter. As a result, total revenue for the quarter was $3.4 billion, down $1 billion from second quarter levels due to lower production and lower MSR hedge results. Production revenue decreased $565 million due to the lower volumes and margins. Servicing income decreased $672 million, primarily due to lower MSR performance, net of hedge results, reported in the line of business. As forecasted, HPI or the home price index improvements, hurt our MSR valuation. HPI improvements increased the chance of repayment or refinance, thereby increasing projected pre-pay fees.

The capitalization rate for the consumer mortgage MSR asset ended the quarter at 102 basis points, down seven basis points from the second quarter. Provision increased $171 million to $2.9 billion, and reflected an addition to the reserves of $900 million, most of which was associated with the home equity purchased and paired or the SOP 03-3 portfolio. Total first mortgage fundings in the quarter were $96 billion, down 14% from second quarter, or $111 billion. Approximately 39% of the fundings were for home purchases versus approximately 30% in the second quarter. We continue to maintain strong market share during the quarter estimated to be in excess of 20%. Now although we have seen -- or we have seen volatility in the rate environment has started to cause the re-fi volumes to trail off for most of the third quarter, we have observed volumes picking up with the recent decline in rates.

Global Wealth and Investment Management, and you can see this on Slide 11, earned $271 million in the third quarter, down from second quarter levels due mainly to higher provision expense. Growth in asset management fees and brokerage income was more than offset by additional Columbia cash support to purchase all remaining SIV, or structured investment vehicle exposure, and other troubled assets, principally from certain cash funds. Provision was up $277 million due to the charge-off of a single commercial client and higher additions to the reserve. Assets under management ended the quarter at $740 billion, up $35 billion from the end of June, as the improvement in market valuations more than offset outflows from the money market funds. We ended the quarter with approximately 15,000 financial advisors, flat with the end of June, and an indication of on going stabilization in that group. Also as you already know, we finalized details on the sale of the long-term asset management business of Columbia to Ameriprise, that's expected to close in the second quarter of next year. These in the low end of the range we disclosed. Think of this as having minimal P&L impact, but monetizing nearly $800 million of goodwill and intangibles, thereby improving capital slightly.

Now Global Banking, you can see this on Slide 12, and remember it encompasses our commercial bank, corporate bank, and the investment bank -- essentially broke even in the quarter with $40 million in net income. Down from the second quarter due to the absence of the gain from the sale of our merchant processing business to a joint venture. Loan spreads continue to widen as facilities were repriced at higher market rates. Although commercial and corporate clients are being cautious given the economy, and balances are down. We continue to see improved credit spreads as market prices reflect underlying risks. Provision expense decreased 9% to $2.3 billion, but still included a sizable reserve addition in the quarter of $592 million, mainly associated with commercial real estate. Average loans as it reported for the quarter were down 4% from the second quarter, as clients continue to aggressively manage working capital and operating capacity levels. Significant bond issuance for loan repayment also impacted balances. However, average deposit levels increased $10 billion, or 5% from the second quarter levels. Investment banking fees, and this is across the Corporation, were down $392 million -- and this is detailed on Slide 13, to $1.3 billion versus the second quarter but still represented a strong quarter in our mind, given the seasonal trends. The combined Bank of America-Merrill Lynch franchise ranked number one in high yield debt, leverage loans, and MBS. Number two in ABS and syndicated loans and ranked number three in global and number two in US investment banking fees for the first nine months of 2009.

Global Markets on Slide 14, earned $2.2 billion in the third quarter, up $800 million or 58% versus the second quarter. Strong sales and trading results, which you can see on Slide 15, combined with lower market disruption charges, drove the increase. Risk-weighted assets declined 5%, reflecting a more efficient use of the balance sheet and market value changes. As you can see on Slide 15, sales and trading revenue in the third quarter was $5.3 billion, versus $3.9 billion in the second quarter. Lower credit valuation adjustments on derivative liabilities, which were an actual negative mark in the quarter of approximately $700 million -- and lower market disruption charges where we had an actual positive mark of approximately $200 million in the quarter -- helped this quarter. But even so, results were better than we expected given the normal seasonal slowdown.

Structured products, rates and currencies, and equity trading all improved versus the second quarter. Non-industry expense was down from the prior quarter due to merger-related cost saves and a change in compensation that delivers a greater portion of incentive pay over time. We detail on Slides 16 and 17, a number of the most pertinent legacy exposure in the capital markets business. I won't go into detail, but as you will see most of the exposure showed improvement or reductions versus the second quarter. Not included in the six business segments is equity investment income of $886 million in the third quarter, due mainly to improved market valuations. In addition on a consolidated basis, we had security gains of approximately $1.6 billion, partially offset by impairment charges on non-agency RMBS of $411 million.

Now let me switch to credit quality, and this starts on Slide 19. Consumers continue to experience stress from higher unemployment and underemployment levels, ongoing high bankruptcy levels, as well as depressed home prices leading to higher losses in almost all of our consumer portfolios. Likewise, commercial portfolios reported higher charge-offs as a result of the prolonged recession and the impacts of continued stress on the consumer and housing-related sectors and deterioration in non-homebuilder, commercial real estate. Third quarter provision of $11.7 billion exceeded net charge-offs, reflecting the addition of $2.1 billion to the reserve, which was lower than the addition of $4.7 billion in the second quarter. We even had reserve reductions in certain portfolios. Consumer reserve additions were $1.5 billion. $1.3 billion associated with the reduction in expected principal cash flows on the Countrywide, purchased impaired portfolio, $660 million for consumer real estate loans, $600 million associated with card securitizations that matured and came on the balance sheet during the quarter. Offset by reductions in the allowance for credit cards that were already on the balance sheet, and where delinquencies improved $600 million. And a reduction in the allowance for consumer lending and dealer financial services of $530 million.

Commercial reserve additions were approximately $600 million, essentially all earmarked for commercial real estate, although a decrease of $140 million in reserves for small business were offset by an increase in other non-real estate commercial. Our allowance for loan and lease losses now stands at $35.8 billion, or almost 4% of our loan and lease portfolio. Our reserve for unfunded commitments now stands at $1.6 billion bringing the total reserves to $37.4 billion. Now we expect some reserve increases, including reserves for maturing card securitizations for the next quarter or two. But as Ken said, at levels reduced from the current quarter.

Even though the economy has shown some signs of stabilization that point toward recovery, the ultimate level of credit losses and reserve additions will be dependent on whether the stabilization is sustained as well as the duration of the credit cycle. I should note here that my comments about future reserve additions do not take into account the impact of FAS 166 and 167 that will be implemented next year and will result in the consolidation of certain assets such as the credit card trust on the balance sheet. Now on the held basis, net charge-offs across all businesses in the quarter increased $923 million, or 49 basis points from the second quarter levels, to 4.13% of the portfolio, or $9.6 billion. On a managed basis, overall consolidated net losses in the quarter increased $1.2 billion to $12.9 billion. Of the $1.2 billion increase, the consumer increase was almost 60%, or $720 million. Now due to the reduction in balances, principally in unsecured products, the loss rates are somewhat distorted. That's why I am talking in dollar terms.

Credit card represents 53% of total managed, consumer losses. As you can see on Slide 21, managed consumer credit card net losses were $5.5 billion compared to $5 billion in the second quarter. Losses increased due to a jump in early stage delinquencies in late 2008 and early 2009. If you couple that with the 180 day charge-off policy, you can see why losses increased this quarter. 30-day plus delinquencies in consumer credit card decreased $868 million, the second consecutive quarterly drop, leading to the reserve actions that I mentioned earlier. Now we continue to be cautiously optimistic, that delinquency trends signal a stabilization in losses. However, as I mentioned earlier, delayed recovery in the US economy beyond expectations or unforeseen events could obviously keep pressure on this performance.

Credit quality in our consumer real estate business continued to deteriorate in the third quarter. But before I get into the individual consumer real estate products, let me remind you of a couple of important drivers as I did last quarter. Total consumer NPAs, which are highlighted on Slide 22, increased to $1.9 billion in the third quarter, compared to an increase of $3.2 billion in the second quarter, and now total $21 billion. This is primarily comprised of consumer real estate with the lion's share being first mortgage. There are a number of things affecting this portfolio, but as a reminder, we generally place consumer real estate on non-performing at 90 days past due and take charge-offs at 180 days. At which time, we write the loans down to appraised value. We perform quarterly valuation refreshes, taking additional write downs as needed. We also have troubled debt restructurings, or TDRs, which we explained last quarter that reflected as NPAs even though most were not 90 days past due when the restructuring or modification was made. While our efforts are to responsibly keep borrowers in their homes and paying -- we think that reduces the overall costs -- the impact is that the NPA number is elevated.

Formal moratoriums on foreclosures have been lifted as the MHA program and other modification efforts are now up and running. Therefore, once a loan has been evaluated under all the various programs, if no other alternative exists, that loan will be released into foreclosure. Our residential mortgage portfolio -- I'm on Slide 23 now -- showed an increase of $162 million in losses to $1.2 billion, or 205 basis points. An increase of one half as much as we saw in the second quarter. Much of the increase was driven by a revision of our estimate of the impact of the REO process and what that has on that realizable value. Absent that catch up adjustment, charge-offs were virtually flat at $1.1 billion or 180 basis points. 30 plus delinquencies rose $1.9 billion, representing the repurchase of delinquent, government-insured or guaranteed loans from securitizations. Excluding the repurchase, 30-day delinquencies were up slightly, about $139 million.

Now the nonperforming asset front, we saw an increase of $2 billion, less than the $2.8 billion in the second quarter. Nonperforming TDRs increased $841 million in the quarter. Approximately 60% of the new TDRs into nonperforming were performing at the time of reclassifications. Of the $16.5 billion of residential mortgage and NPAs, TDRs make up 18%. Now about 57% or $9.4 billion of the NPAs are greater than 180 days past due and have been written down to appraised values, which should be considered when evaluating reserve adequacy. I should also note that we saw stability in both severity and average size of charge-offs this quarter. Our reserve levels were increased on this portfolio in the quarter and represent 1.87% of period end loan balances versus 1.67% in June. Given the weakness in the economy and the continued pressure on home prices, we may see continued deterioration in this portfolio. And therefore, may add further additions to the reserve. Now switching specifically to home equity, and I am back on Slide 24.

Net charge-offs increased $131 million to $1.97 billion in the third quarter. However, we accelerated charge-offs of $223 million during the quarter related to an adjustment to our loss severities due to the protracted nature of collection under some insurance contracts. Excluding that adjustment, net charge-offs would have dropped in the quarter. 30 plus performing delinquencies are up $184 million, or 15 basis points, to 1.4%. Nonperforming assets and home equity, principally loans greater than 90 days past due, decreased to $3.8 billion. A decrease of $146 million, which is the first decrease since the start of this credit cycle.

As I explained last quarter, we have been working with borrowers to modify their loans to terms that better align with their ability to pay. When we do that under most circumstances, the loans are identified as TDRs. Nonperforming TDRs in home equity increased $218 million. Almost 90% of the modified home equity loans were performing at the time of reclassifications into TDRs, elevating NPA levels. To give you some color, TDRs, where we have improved the likelihood of repayment, make up 43% of home equity NPAs. In addition, about 17%, or $656 million of the NPAs are greater than 180 days past due and have been written down to appraised values. We increased reserves for this portfolio to $9.7 billion, or 6.39% of ending balances. And that would be 5.12% excluding the purchased impaired loans. Due to further deterioration in the purchased impaired portfolio and continued elevated levels of delinquency on the rest of the portfolio. While delinquency growth has slowed versus the previous quarter, delinquency levels continue to be elevated.

Now on Slide 25, we provide you details on our direct and indirect loans, which includes the auto and other dealer-related portfolios as well as consumer lending. Net charge-offs in dealer finance decreased 3% to $194 million, or 1.85% of the portfolio, as we have experienced improved collateral values. We saw the expected leveling off in consumer lending charge-offs and expect them to decrease due to the improvements in delinquent amounts.

Slide 26 shows the details of the purchased, impaired Countrywide portfolio, which shows lower charge-offs but with actual trends of frequency and severity. Continuing to follow-up our expectations, we added $1.3 billion to the allowance on this portfolio. We provided more details on the slide for you given the charge this quarter so I won't go through that in detail. Looking forward, I would say this portfolio's valuation -- and remember the purchased impaired portfolio is a LIFO loan reserved portfolio, is more sensitive to HPI and our success under the modification programs. We would also expect a lion's share of the charge-off to come through in the next few quarters. Similar factors for the drivers behind our valuation of non-agency CMO securities which drove the OTTI charge that I mentioned earlier.

Switching to our commercial portfolio, you can see this on Slide 29. Net charge-offs increased in the quarter to $2.6 billion, or 309 basis points, up in dollar terms about 25% from the second quarter. Net losses in our $18 billion small business portfolio, which were reported as commercial loan losses, increased $23 million, or $796 million compared to an increase of $140 million in the second quarter. As we have discussed before, many of the issues in small business relate to how we grew the portfolio over the past few years, which is now compounded by the current economic trends. However, we think we are close to the peak in small business losses as indicated by several linked quarter declines and 30 plus delinquencies as well as 90 plus delinquencies which are down more than 10%. Our current allowance for small business stands at 15% of the portfolio.

Excluding small business, commercial net charge-offs increased $505 million from the second quarter to $1.8 billion, representing a charge-off ratio of 228 basis points. The losses in the quarter were split almost equally between non-real estate, which was about 52% and real estate. Of the $261 million increase in non-real estate losses, 72% was driven by two fraud-related losses. And within commercial real estate, net charge-offs increased $244 million to $873 million representing a charge-off ratio of 4.67%. This is the first quarter that non-homebuilder losses now constitute a majority, or 57%, of our commercial real estate losses. The increase in net charge-offs from the non-homebuilder portion of the portfolio was driven primarily by multifamily rental and multi-use property types.

Commercial NPAs, and this is detailed on Slide 30, rose approximately $1 billion, an increase of just about half of the second quarter to $12.9 billion, or $12.7 billion excluding small business. 44% of the increase was due to commercial real estate driven by non-homebuilder exposures. Homebuilders actually dropped again this quarter.

Let me give you some color behind the make up of our commercial NPAs. Commercial real estate makes up about 59% of the balance, or about $7.6 billion, with a little less than half of that being homebuilders. Outside of commercial real estate, the balance is concentrated in housing-related and consumer dependent portfolios within commercial domestic. NPAs are most significant in commercial services and supplies -- think realtors, employment agencies, office supplies, et cetera at 6% of the total commercial NPAs followed by individuals and trusts at 4%, and vehicle dealers and media at 2% each. No other industry comprised greater than 2%. Just over 90% of commercial NPAs are collateralized and approximately 34% are contractually current. Total commercial NPAs are carried at about 75% of original value before considering loan loss reserves.

The reservable criticized -- utilized exposure in our commercial book increased $2.9 billion in the third quarter, compared to an increase of $8.5 billion in the second quarter and is the lowest increase since the fourth quarter of 2007. However, it was still an increase and reflected of the continued deterioration in the US economy with about 60% of the increase being real estate. Commercial real estate, criticized increased $1.7 billion to $22.9 billion. While homebuilders with $6.7 billion still represent the largest concentration, we actually saw a reduction there of about $670 million. The largest increases were in office, multifamily rental, and multi-use properties. Outside commercial real estate, we saw further weakening. And again, housing-related and consumer dependent businesses. 85% of the assets in commercial reservable criticized or secured, of which approximately 10% is our highly secured asset-based lending business. While we obviously will see some continued deterioration, our past rated credit discussions over the past couple of quarters have felt much better, which is translating into lower flows into criticized. As I mentioned earlier, we added to commercial reserves in the third quarter, of which almost all was related to commercial real estate. Total commercial reserve coverage at the end of September increased to 2.76% of loans.

Now let me move from credit quality and talk about net interest income. Here, I'm on Slide 32. Compared to second quarter on a managed and FTE basis, net interest income was down $356 million. Managed core NII dropped approximately $283 million while market-based NII dropped by $73 million. The core NII decrease was mainly due to lower loan levels, almost across the board due to weaker demand and the impact of our earlier deleveraging of the ALM portfolio, partially offset by the impact of the favorable rate environment and improved pricing. Also impacting our net -- our net interest income was the drag from asset quality, both nonperforming as well as interest reversals. This negative impact on core managed NII in the third quarter was $1.15 billion due to nonperforming assets, approximately $330 million in interest reversals approximately $820 million. Combined, this impact was approximately $40 million worse than second quarter. Most of the interest reversals relate to the credit card business. The core net interest margin on a managed basis decreased 6 basis points to 3.65% due mainly to lower loan levels and higher yield in assets such as cards.

Now turning to our interest rate risk position, we continue to be asset sensitive, where we benefit as rates rise and are exposed as rates decline. As you can see from the bubble chart on Slide 34, which as you know is based on the forward curve, our interest rate risk position is slightly more asset sensitive relative to how we were positioned three months ago. The change in sensitivity is primarily due to the lower levels of rates. Given how low rates are, we remain flush with liquidity and believe an asset sensitive position makes sense as we are positioned to benefit as rates rise in the future.

Let me say a few things about capital, and you can see this on Slide 37. The Tier 1 capital ratio at the end of September was 12.46%, up 53 basis points from the second quarter, due mainly to managing the size of our balance sheet. Our Tier 1 capital level is $100 billion in excess of a 6% well capitalized, minimum requirement. Tier 1 common increased 35 basis points to 7.25%, while our tangible common equity ratio increased to 4.82%. Tangible common equity rose as a result of the improved valuations and securities available for sale, which increased OCI. As a reminder, the appreciation above our current carrying values for either BlackRock or China Construction Bank, is not included in OCI. Preferred dividends this quarter were $1.24 billion, of which almost $900 million is associated with TARP-preferred, or $0.10 per share per quarter given no tax benefit. Our non (inaudible) is up from the second quarter due to the preferred exchanges for common in the second period which recognized the discounts from the exchange. This level of preferred dividends in the third quarter is expected to remain about the same next quarter.

Now going forward into the final quarter of 2009 and in line with Ken's remarks, we believe we are at a peak in total credit losses, or at least very close to it. Having said that, it is difficult to call a specific quarter when credit costs start to drop substantially from the peak. Excluding the purchased impaired portfolio and the amount we put up for maturing securitizations, reserve additions would have been minimal this quarter. Once we hit the inflection point on losses, where we no longer have to build reserves, we should get some lift. We improved our strong balance sheet again this quarter with a robust and even more conservative liquidity position, stronger credit reserves, and higher capital ratios. With credit losses possibly peaking soon, we believe the level of our reserves in revenue generation over the next several quarters will enable us to get through the period with minimal impact on capital levels.

Merrill Lynch once again contributed positively to earnings as it has done so over the first nine months of the year. The Merrill Lynch integration effort is on track and continues to make headway. With Countrywide, we are in the process of launching significant system conversions over the next several quarters and plan to finalize the Countrywide integration by June of next year. Cost saves at Merrill were approximately $1 billion this quarter, or $2.2 billion for nine months. So we are well on our way toward exceeding 45% of the total cost saves, which were projected at $7 billion annually in 2009 and well ahead of our original 2009 goal. We continue to see decent business momentum this quarter, and with further stabilization in both the economy and credit quality, we can continue to improve our competitive position, which should enhance the bottom line. Now with that, let me open it up for questions, and I thank you for your attention.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from the site of Chris Kotowski from Oppenheimer. Your line is open.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Hello. A couple of things. One is, I was wondering -- and looking at the consolidated P&L, we still see other than temporary impairment losses on AFS debt securities. Just about every credit spread that we look at improved during the quarter. And I was just curious, why are there still losses there given the environment?

JOE PRICE: Losses there were, Chris, driven principally off of two places. One was the -- as I mentioned in the remarks-- in the non-agency CMOs, that principally came over from either Countrywide or some from the Merrill Lynch investment portfolio. And as we recalibrated the severities and the cash flow expectations off of all those, that is what drove the impairment for us from that standpoint. And the other -- probably, the other third -- it is probably two thirds or maybe closer to half-half, related to some of the market disruption charges that I mentioned in the markets business where the CDO charges. Some of those securities, and you can see this in the supplement or if you go back in the 10-Q, have a piece of them carried in the available for sale. And it was related to that same charge.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. Again, just because all the markets seem to have improved. The other thing was the $277 million reserve to a single client out of Global Wealth Management. In general, I think of that as a granular, non-credit, intensive business. Can you give some color on that, and give us comfort that there aren't others like that in there?

JOE PRICE: The charge -- I think you are referring to the total change in credit cost as opposed to just the particular charge. It was probably half of that. It did relate to a fraud-related item. One of the larger credits, but a fraud-related item.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay.

KEN LEWIS: It is coming in commercial credit.

JOE PRICE: It is a commercial credit, I'm sorry, too, Chris.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And then I don't know if there's any comment you or Ken can make about announced timing on the succession announcement?

KEN LEWIS: No. I can just say that there's an appropriate sense of urgency, but combined with obviously wanting to make the best decision, it's the most important decision a Board can make. So I am assured that there's the proper balance in getting it right but also doing it with a sense of urgency, but I can't give you a date.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good morning.

KEN LEWIS: Hello, Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Hello. A couple of questions on credit and earnings power. On credit, if I back out what you provided for in the CFC -- provision that you did this quarter which is it fair to say that that's a catch up provision, and you would think that you are done with that? Is that a fair assessment?

JOE PRICE: I am thinking this whole downturn, Betsy, I have learned never to be done with anything. But we tried to lay out on the slide, the detail characteristics so you can see the delinquency improvement and the trends on it in the package. So if we are not done, that should be the lion's share. But it is sensitive to home price indexes, or home price out into the future, and then also modifications. But the lion's share should be behind us.

BETSY GRASECK: What are you thinking about in terms of home price change one year forward? Because I think that's what you would be reserving for is your forward-look for one year?

JOE PRICE: For [03], it is a life of loan thing, so you look forward. But we are pretty consistent with the case [shiller] details on both the state level as well as nationally.

BETSY GRASECK: So is the provision that you would get to about $10 billion, ex the CFC, a core run rate for this quarter, do you think? Or -- ?

JOE PRICE: Well, if you just did the math and took that and said what did you build I think I made this comment in the remarks. If you took that out, the 0303 provision, and then you took maturing securitizations. Everything else kind of netted off, is a way. But we are not suggesting that charge-offs have absolutely peaked. We think we are near or somewhere near from that standpoint. And then hopefully if the economy can continue to show stability and improve, we would not have the level of reserve builds on top of that. I think that's the way to think about it.

BETSY GRASECK: Reserve build really is a function of NPA growth. Is that fair?

JOE PRICE: It differs by the pieces. So it is less about NPA growth and more about our view of the forward-looking charge-offs on the consumer products. And then principally on the commercial corporate side, it is pretty much loan by loan and risk rating driven. So take out the reservable criticize. That is driving a big piece of that.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And how do you think about what your reserve does over the next couple of quarters or the next couple of years?

JOE PRICE: Probably tripes economic activity. The better the economy -- if you think about credit quality in general, the core is where the charge-offs go. And obviously, as the economy continues its path of stabilization and growth, we ought to be able to track that. That would suggest to you that at some point those are not needed. But right now, it is too early to call that.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then in the earnings power question, it seems like you are indicating that as rates rise and as demand for credit comes back, you have got some earnings power. The other question has just from the liquidity that you indicated -- a significant amount of liquidity at this stage. What would drive you to put some of that excess liquidity back to work sooner?

JOE PRICE: Well, earlier it was probably as much about making sure we got the Merrill Lynch - BAC or BAS platforms put together, understood contingent liquidity requirements and things of that nature. We are through that exercise, and now it has probably as much to do with opportunity and maybe a little of the other still leftover. And so you will see us put some to work in what I would call a liquidity portfolio. We have done some of that this quarter, but the duration will probably stay reasonably short until we see the curve in appropriate position.

BETSY GRASECK: And is there anything associated with TARP repayment? Are you holding any excess liquidity to pay back TARP?

JOE PRICE: Obviously, the most beneficial thing would be to take the TARP dividend out with some of that liquidity. And so that is obviously one of the things in the thinking, yes.

BETSY GRASECK: Is there any expectation that you can give us on time frame for that?

JOE PRICE: I didn't hear you, Betsy?

BETSY GRASECK: Is there anything you can give us with regard to expectation for repaying TARP?

JOE PRICE: All I will say is we are supplying all of the information and doing everything we can on our part. But you probably heard that some more specific guidance is supposed to come out from the regulators regarding repayment criteria very shortly. We will need to make sure we meet those criteria, but nothing else has changed from what we have said in the past. That's our goal.

BETSY GRASECK: Would you use any excess liquidity to pay down debt as opposed to issue? You have got some issuance coming due over the next year?

JOE PRICE: Yes. This quarter if you looked at what we did, we had probably had about 3.5 to four times the maturity than we had issuance. We were out in market. We issued part of showing that we could, and then where we wanted to keep the avenues open. So you would probably see us do a little more of that over time, too.

BETSY GRASECK: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We will move next to the site of Matthew O'Connor from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi Ken, Joe. Loans continue to climb at a pretty rapid rate both to the overall industry and for you as well. I am just wondering with some signs that the economy is bottoming, is your appetite to make loans and keep them on your balance sheet increasing at all?

KEN LEWIS: Well, we -- I would just say that we have actively looking for every good loan we can make. Obviously, it's the core of how we make money. So the attitude hasn't changed, but if the economy starts to get better and there's demand then we will be there to supply credit.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Do you have thoughts of where we might first see that demand? Which categories?

KEN LEWIS: I don't think so, do you think -- ?

JOE PRICE: My guess -- I am thinking on the commercial side, you would probably see it first in middle market areas because once business confidence comes back and you see the middle market companies begin to build -- build their inventory and spend more on CapEx, put people back to work, et cetera. That's probably the -- on the commercial side where you would see it more so than maybe large corporate which would tend go into the marketplace a little more. On the consumer side, it is probably first mortgage and areas of that nature versus home equity and things of that nature that you would see it first.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately, I just had a clarification question. On Slide 15, where you show the sales and trading revenue, obviously both periods are being impacted by this CVA write downs as well as the market disruption noise. If we look at the equity income line? Is that a pretty clean number quarter to quarter? I figure there's not that much noise in those two numbers.

JOE PRICE: The only reason I am hesitating, Matt, is to see how much derivative liability impact you had in there. It shouldn't be -- it should not be a whole lot. But it is probably a little bit. But I think compared to fixed income, that one is pretty apples to apples.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Lastly, if I may, and I apologize. If you addressed this, I missed it. But the Tier 1 common dollars actually went up $2 billion quarter to quarter even though net income was negative. I was just trying to figure out, is there more deferred tax assets that are now being allowed? Or what is driving that increase in capital?

JOE PRICE: There was a piece of that that relates to deferred tax assets where our carry back capacity -- where we refined our carry back capacity and had some incremental ability. So there was a piece of that, and I will come back to you, or get Lee or Kevin to on anything else that was main. But that was one the bigger drivers.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Do you know offhand how much additional DTAs being excluded that could come back in over time?

JOE PRICE: We don't have a lot of haircut DTA there. We do have some remaining for GAAP purposes, and therefore, it is not in the DTA inutilized. Or let's call it reserved against carry forwards. And so, it is more of that. But count it in -- count it in several billion not a ton more than that.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. So the regulatory capital from here will be mostly driven by net income, and then whatever happens in the balance sheet.

JOE PRICE: Yes, and you do have volatility from the DTA to the extent that over time you move out of carry back into carry forward. A lot of moving parts on it. You could get a little there, but it shouldn't be that big of a number.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Alright. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: The next from the site of Paul Miller from FBR Capital Markets. Your line is open.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. I had a question, mainly on the credit card. Can you talk about how -- if you are loan-[modding] some of those credit cards, and are they coming up in the TDRs? And how they are impacting both the NPAs and the credit card portfolio and the reserve methodology.

JOE PRICE: When you talk about modifying-- there's a lot of different ways you can modify credit cards. There's two principal ways that you think about it. Those that are in early stage collections or something, and those that you put on a fixed plan. And in both of those cases, the reperformance period is, I think, three and four months respectively, from that. So, you are not really -- you would only see it after -- you would only see it, quote, change in the delinquency stats after they met the full minimum payment for those periods. So that is the real impact. Less impact on TDRs, that is more of a mortgage product-related thing for consumers.

PAUL MILLER: And so are you -- the issue is we don't -- we are hearing a lot of anecdotal data about a lot of credit card modifications taking place. And we are just wondering what -- are you loan-modding your credit card portfolio, and how much of an impact is it having on the overall performance?

JOE PRICE: Yes, we are trying to help our customers there, and we are modifying and trying to do various workout strategies with customers. But once you do that, you still have to meet minimum payment standards and requirements. And you have to meet -- they have to meet full reperformance for again, three to four months, before you see them change in delinquency status. So I think what you are seeing -- any impact on the delinquency status that you are seeing I think is true performance driven -- sustained performance driven.

PAUL MILLER: Thank you very much, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Ed Najarian with ISI Group. Your line is open.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. First is a quick question. Joe, you made a comment about capital ratios right at the end of your remarks in terms of capital ratios staying relatively stable through the next several quarters. And I was wondering, did you mean that to include with the impact of FAS 166 and 167, or excluding the impact? If it is excluding the impact, what would you say 166 and 167 impact is on your capital ratios?

JOE PRICE: I was excluding -- I was talking about from an operating standpoint, Ed. From a FAS 140 standpoint -- amendments to FAS 140, best we can tell right now we would project there to be about $125 billion that comes back on the balance sheet in January. Think of about $70 million of that being in cards. So you can make your own estimate on what you think the reserves would be. The rest of it would be -- the delta between those two would principally be multi-seller and some home equity securitizations. But lion's share of the reserve impact will come out of credit card. And since that is on the balance sheet already for regulatory purposes, the risk-weighted impact really would exclude card that is already on there. So think of that number -- again, if we were estimating, or if we were trying to call it today what we think it will be out in January somewhere in the $25 billion to $30 billion range for RWA.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. So that's additional RWA, and then you have the reserve impact as well.

JOE PRICE: You got it. Yes.

ED NAJARIAN: And is there any way to quantify those two things together in terms of basis points on Tier 1 ratio?

JOE PRICE: The only reason I am hesitating is I would just assume you make your own view as to the reserve cost -- what the reserve requirement will be on the various components that come on because we are not settles yet on that. But think of the $30 billion of RWA. I am looking at Kevin. I will come back to you on the exact number of RWA per basis point. And then the other one would simply be the reserve impact. So that's more of a dollar thing for you.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And then, second question, kind of comes back to the issue with respect to declining loan balances. I don't know if you can give any -- number one if you can give any sense of how many more quarters? I know it is a tough question to answer. Or to what additional extent you would expect loan balances to decline before they stabilize? And as that is happening, what is your appetite to replace net loan run-off with investment securities or mortgage-backed securities given the very low rate environment on MBS?

JOE PRICE: I guess one way to think about further declines in loan balances is just to look at the ending balances versus the average because you can see that there's some categories where you still have got downdraft coming into next next quarter on it for a little while. When that actually changes has probably got -- goes back to my earlier comment. Probably has a little more to do with where business or economic activity is from a demand standpoint as Ken referenced, than anything else. In the interim, kind of back to Betsy's question -- what's the best use of our excess liquidity during the period? Clearly, repayment of some TARP will be on the agenda when we get approval for that. Clearly, you can manage through some of this by reducing the debt footprint while you have excess liquidity and let maturities outrun new issuance. And then when you get to deploy in excess liquidity and securities, the appetite -- I would say, we have some. But we are not -- we are going be patient. And then we probably -- if we do something shorter term, we probably keep the duration in reasonably well.

KEN LEWIS: Your inventory level number is probably going be a key one going forward because you do have some companies with very, very tight inventory levels. And as you start to get the economy improving, they are going to have to start building inventory levels. And then, you will start seeing some -- at least working capital loans.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thanks. I guess it would be fair to say that in the current rate environment -- in the near term with NBS yields this low that your first reaction in terms of the use of excess liquidity would be to pay down higher cost debt.

JOE PRICE: I don't know that I would put first, second, third. I would just say that is one of the ones that you saw us do this quarter where we let maturities outstrip issuance.

ED NAJARIAN: Alright. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We will move next to the site of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein. Your line is open.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hello, Joe. Following up on the NII. When you net together those balance sheet considerations with maybe a little bit better trend in interest reversals, is your hope to keep NII -- core NII, pretty flat going forward?

JOE PRICE: Yes. You have got a couple of things. It also depends on where short-term rates go because you have a deposit impact when you start coming out of this thing that will be favorable. So I put the credit drag in the deposit side on the favorable piece. And then the demand -- until demand picks up, that is going to be the challenge. So over time, those are the factors that we are really going to deal with. In the near term, I don't want forecast fourth quarter margin or net interest income on there. But our goal would be to try to retain reasonable stability there. Obviously, I have got some hedge and effectiveness and things like that that can work against me in the near term. But that would be -- that is clearly the goal. But demand of higher yield -- demand for higher yielding loans is the wild card on this.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And in the reserve additions for card loans that are maturing, is that typical for these to come on with a natural maturation? Or is this related to you supporting some of these trusts where the excess spreads have come down?

JOE PRICE: Natural maturities.

KEN LEWIS: Yes.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

JOE PRICE: And we will have some more of that in the fourth, just FYI.

JOHN MCDONALD: A question on Global Wealth Management. Are we seeing leverage there to the improving markets. Investor sentiment, obviously this quarter, was hurt by the provisioning and cash support charges. But is that a business you feel like is underearning and should have some leverage as things get better here?

JOE PRICE: I am sorry.

JOHN MCDONALD: Global wealth. Retail brokerage.

JOE PRICE: Absolutely. Once you take some of these things that [Sally's] business had to absorb this quarter out, and then start looking forward -- both the stability of the FA trends, the productivity levels that we saw out of that. A lot of very positive momentum and you add that to market lift, and that should take us forward.

JOHN MCDONALD: A question for Ken. Since it is the first time, as you said, you have addressed the shareholders, the investment community since the announcement. Maybe you could give us some thoughts on what drove your decision and the timing?

KEN LEWIS: Nothing more than what I have already said. That I came back from some time off, and I had reflected on my -- just my 40 years, or two thirds of my life being with the Company and felt like it was an appropriate time. I always thought I would intuitively know that, and I did. So it was just, 40 years with the same Company, and eight years as the CEO is enough.

JOHN MCDONALD: Yes. And also if I can ask, to what extent will you be involved in the screening and the selection process for a successor? And do you have any views on whether an insider or outsider would be best for the Company and the shareholders.

KEN LEWIS: I have voiced opinions, but there's a special committee that is looking at it and will look at all aspects of different ways to go. And then, we will make a recommendation to the Board. So I want to -- I probably should express my opinion privately. But wait for the selection committee to make their recommendation to the Board.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thank you.

KEN LEWIS: Yes.

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Nancy Bush from NAB Research, LLC. Your line is open.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH, LLC.: Good morning.

JOE PRICE: Morning.

NANCY BUSH: A couple of questions here. You said that Merrill was accretive for the quarter and you talked about stabilization of FAs et cetera, et cetera. Could you just tell us, or give us some kind of color on whether you're at the place in revenue generation with Merrill that you would like to be right now? Or whether some of the losses -- personnel, et cetera that were very well publicized in the last couple of quarters have actually cost you revenues that you now can start to recoup?

KEN LEWIS: Well, it is hard to quantify any of that, Nancy. I would say that just in terms of expectations, that we are are right where we thought we should be. And of course, we are ahead on expenses. I have been very impressed with Tom Montag's ability to attract really outstanding people when we have lost or needed to fill a position. So we would be at a point now that's better than we were three months ago or six months ago. I think each quarter you are going to see us more going toward our full potential than maybe the first and second quarters. And things have settled down, obviously, a lot more. And then you can say the same thing on the wealth management side. I am very pleased with the things that Sally [Croshack] is doing. And we do now see stabilization in that financial advisor network. That was very important to get to that point.

NANCY BUSH: Thank you. And on the issue of loan demand, et cetera. Can you just comment on utilization of lines? Are we starting to see a flattening of the decline there? Or is it still accelerating at an accelerating rate?

JOE PRICE: Nancy, nothing sticks out to me across on the utilized lines. Clients are obviously conserving cash. But as evidenced by some of our deposits, they're not using their lines. Back in the disruption period, you clearly had a bounce in a couple of industries. But if anything, you're seeing less utilization. And in some cases in maturities, people actually permanently cutting down or coming in at lower overall amounts to, in essence, save their commitment fees.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Joe, one question for you. On the Tier 1 common ratio, it started out with, I think the regulators were saying 4% target, and then it became a 6% target. And it might be a 7% target. Do you have any sense at this point about where that number is going to need to go over the long term? Can you bring it down?

JOE PRICE: Nancy, I don't know that I have a good prediction. There are so many different opinions out there that you hear, and none are necessarily official. I do feel like though the pressure will be on higher quality capital of your total capital structure and that the focus, while still on Tier 1, will be more acutely on Tier 1 common over time. So the way we think about it when we run the Company is -- what is the baseline? And if the baseline is 4%, fine. Let's just define that, and then what's the cushion over that to absorb unexpected and to have room to be -- to operate. And then, the question will be -- is there something on top of that? And I think that's the discussion. It will also be driven, obviously, by the business mix. Especially to the extent that they increase the capital needs around certain trading activity and things of that nature.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you. And Ken, best of luck in your retirement.

KEN LEWIS: Thank you, Nancy.

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Jefferson Harralson from KBW. Your line is open.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KBW: Thanks. I wanted to ask you some bigger picture questions in your credit card business. Compared to peers, decently higher losses and less profitable. Can you talk about where your credit card business is? Any changes you are making from here? Any comments you can make about loss expectations and timing to profitability in that business?

KEN LEWIS: Well, I can't -- I can only say that we would acknowledge that the business has changed. The inability to do risk-based pricing has caused us to look at things differently. And so, we have a lot of people looking at the business. Talking about the -- and looking at the changes that need to be made, both in infrastructure and other ways we can make money. But it would be premature to tell you what it will look like in any exact form. But it is going to be different. We acknowledge that, and we are working on it.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Okay. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from the site of Mike Daniels from CLSA.

MIKE DANIELS, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. Can you hear me?

KEN LEWIS: Hi Mike, yes.

MIKE DANIELS: Okay. First question. Joe, you said consumer fees may go down $150 million to $200 million in the fourth quarter. Did I hear that correctly?

JOE PRICE: I was talking about in the deposit business, given the changes that we instituted, Mike. Without mitigation, that's the number.

MIKE DANIELS: So that would be the overdraft charges? So we should face that decline in there permanently, or no?

JOE PRICE: Well, we are obviously looking for mitigation actions and other things we can do. Some of those may be on the expense line. Some of those may be. But for right now, that's our best estimate of the raw impact of the changes we made.

MIKE DANIELS: Okay. And then commercial real estate loan losses had a big jump from 3.3% to 4.7%. How much of that jump would be due to say, refinancing? How much from TDRs? And how much from borrowers simply not paying? Just a rough sense?

JOE PRICE: Mike, you have got a ton of feedback. I can barely -- I could catch about half of your question.

MIKE DANIELS: Can you hear me right now?

JOE PRICE: That's better.

MIKE DANIELS: Sorry. How much of the jump in commercial real estate loan losses related to borrowers not paying or refinancing or TDRs?

JOE PRICE: I would say the biggest -- I don't have the exact break down. I will have to come back to you on stuff. But think of the appraisal process as probably being one of the biggest drivers of the losses as we try to keep our appraisals counted in a couple of months in terms of how current we try to keep them. And that, with property values falling as these appraisals have really come in. That has been probably one of the biggest drivers.

MIKE DANIELS: What was the catalyst for a renewed appraisal process?

JOE PRICE: When something goes substandard, or when something goes into your classified categories, you clearly would do it. Once it is in there, the formal requirement, I guess, is an annual one. But we try to stay as current as we can on those.

MIKE DANIELS: And correct me if I'm wrong, even if the appraisal says the value of the property is way down, but the borrower is still paying and is expected to pay -- you don't have to write that down? Is that correct?

JOE PRICE: Each credit -- there is some truth to that but each credit depends on the exact circumstances of the individual credit.

MIKE DANIELS: Okay.

JOE PRICE: The reliability of the repayment source. All the other things.

MIKE DANIELS: Alright. Then a very simple question with a tough answer. Credit losses have peaked perhaps, by your estimate, with your assumption unemployment is 10%. How much higher would the credit losses potentially go if unemployment goes to 11%? Or just what is the ongoing sensitivity of your credit losses if unemployment goes higher than expected?

JOE PRICE: I don't have a good estimate for an overall number for you, like that. I do -- it depends, because it is really net new claim that I think are part of -- or what we see as really driving it. If you saw a gradual roll, I think it would be very manageable. If you saw an instant spike, it would have a pretty big impact on us across the board because that would suggest the rest of the economy is very weak also.

MIKE DANIELS: Alright. I am not sure if it is Ken's last conference call, but any lessons from the last year? Five, 20 years? Thoughts you want to leave us with, Ken?

KEN LEWIS: No. Mike, I sit here at the moment thinking that we have built the best financial franchise in world. And I look forward, it would be from afar, I guess -- I look forward to seeing it play out in the next few years.

MIKE DANIELS: Alright. Thanks a lot.

KEN LEWIS: Thanks, Mike.

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Jeff Harte from Sandler O'Neill. Your line is open.

KEVIN STITT: Hey Jeff, this is Kevin. Unfortunately, we have to run to a meeting, and we will call you on the phone.

JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Okay.

KEVIN STITT: You who haven't been able to get your questions in, we will follow up with everyone. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's teleconference. You may have a great day, and disconnect at any time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | c151 : Earnings | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | gcon : Consumer Affairs | ereal : Real Estate Markets | gsocc : Soccer | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091030e5ag000p1
  


 HD
 Q2  2009  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,919 words
   PD
17 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to today's teleconference. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). We'll take questions in turn following the presentation. Please note today's call may be recorded. It's now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the you future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. And for additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.

And with that, let me turn it over to Ken Lewis.

KEN LEWIS, CEO & PRESIDENT, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning and thanks for joining our earnings review. The past several quarters have been quite tumultuous. For the first time in a while, though, we feel less constrained by economic events and more capable of demonstrating progress and momentum. Driving this attitude were several accomplishments this quarter in the areas of balance sheet strength, solid core operating performance, and ongoing integration and positioning of our businesses.

During the quarter, we increased our Tier One common equity by more than $34 billion the total results of our capital actions, approximately $40 billion, exceeded the capital buffer required by the supervisory capital assessment program by approximately 17%, all while again substantially adding to our credit reserves. In addition, there were several discernible positive trends in many of our businesses including robust activity in mortgage lending, investment banking and capital markets along with strong deposit growth. Much like our first quarter results, we were able to generate earnings in the second quarter from various businesses and investments to offset the significant impact from the normally high credit cost and the negative accounting impact from the improvement in our credit spreads. On the credit spread point, I want go into my opinion here on the counter intuitive accounting for certain liabilities, but suffice to say I'm pleased with both the improvements in the markets and the progress we have made to enable to benefit from this increased market confidence and I would rather see the operating improvements and take the accounting lumps that come with our Company's success.

For the second quarter of 2009, Bank of America earned $3.2 billion, before preferred dividends or $0.33 per diluted share after deducting deferred dividends of approximately $800 million. Total revenue on an FTE basis was in excess of $33 billion, or pretax preprovision income was approximately $16 billion. Positive drivers in the quarter included a particularly favorable capital markets environment, which produced a 56% increase in investment banking revenue versus the first quarter and core trading results that exceeded strong first quarter results. Mortgage banking income remain elevated due to high levels of home loan production. Benefits were recognized from the partial sale of our investment in China Construction Bank and a gain on the sale of our merchant processing business to a joint venture with First Data Corporation.

Momentum continued in new deposit generation and we focused on prudent balance sheet management, which included lower risk rated assets and significantly higher levels of Tier One common equity which enabled us to end the quarter with a Tier One ratio of 11.9%, a Tier One common ratio of 6.9%, and a tangible common equity ratio of 4.7%, up 154 basis points from March. These benefits to common equity also pushed our tangible book value per share up 7% to $11.66. The earnings impact of these positives were offset by continued high level of provision expense, and expense related to the FDIC special assessment for deposit insurance, the negative impact on the improvement in our credit spreads, and lower consumer and commercial customer activity across many of our businesses.

As we experienced in the first quarter, Merrill Lynch and Countrywide continue to provide a significant contribution to revenue. And more important, both businesses position Bank of America very well to benefit as the global economy stabilizes and begins to grow. Total credit extended in the second quarter was $211 billion including commercial renewals versus $183 billion in the first quarter. The larger components are $111 billion in first mortgages, $78 billion in commercial, and $9 billion in commercial real estate. The remaining $13 billion includes consumer retail loans and small business loans.

Provision expense in the second quarter was in line with the first quarter and included a $4.7 billion reserve increase versus $6.4 billion in the first quarter. Average retail deposit levels for the quarter excluding Countrywide were up $10.5 billion or 1.7% from the first quarter, which we believe is above industry growth. Deposit levels at Countrywide continue to drop as anticipated, driven by the alignment of pricing strategies. I would note that almost all our growth was associated with transaction accounts versus CD or savings accounts.

Before I turn it over to Joe, let me make a couple comments about our thinking given the current environment. The additions of Countrywide and Merrill Lynch continue to be accretive to earnings year-to-date, as these market sensitive businesses offer diversification to offset the core credit headwinds we're facing. For the rest of the year, the build-up in late stage delinquencies and continued economic pressures will cause charge-offs to continue to trend upward, although not at the pace we had experienced recently. Our largest jump in early stage delinquencies late last year essentially hit the 180 day charge-off period this quarter and we haven't seen such early stage jumps since then, as Joe will discuss. At this point, I would say consumer charge-offs may be close to peaking in dollar terms around year end although we believe they will stay elevated post the peak. Consequently, reserve increases will most likely continue for the remainder of 2009, although not at the levels we experienced during the first six months of the year. We continue to position the balance sheet to ride out the recession which you can see in our delevering actions this quarter, adding long-term debt and capital, shrinking certain asset positions and substantially adding to reserve levels.

Having said that, we're actually seeing a lot of business activity as demonstrated by the credit originations I referenced a minute ago. Our outlook for the economy is close to the consensus view with unemployment peaking somewhere around 10%, we anticipate bankruptcy filings for individuals even after reaching prereform levels to continue to increase, and we believe home price declines, while slowing, still have further to fall. These are the assumptions we use to run the Company. Based on this scenario, profitability in the second half of the year will be much tougher than the first half, given the absence of several one-time items that were positive to earnings. I think we have to get through the next couple of quarters and into 2010 before it becomes apparent that the market strength of our various businesses will help us return to more normalized earnings. We're still wrestling with the definition of normalized earnings given the future impact on the banking industry of proposed changes in regulatory oversight, accounting changes, and the Card Act. But we do believe our business model at Bank of America is the best model to benefit from future economic recovery.

At this point, let me turn it over to Joe for much more additional color and commentary.

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken. Over the next few minutes I'll cover the large items that Ken mentioned, the performance of each of our businesses, our capital markets exposures, credit quality, net interest income and capital levels. Before getting into the business results, let me highlight the large items that impacted earnings in the second quarter and you can follow this on slide six. Shares of China Construction Bank were sold for a pretax gain of $5.3 billion, which reduced our ownership to approximately 11%. Now, any impact from appreciate in the value of the remaining shares over our purchase price is not reflected in our shareholders' equity numbers and won't be until the third quarter of next year, when it will be recognized in other comprehensive income.

Let me touch on the effective rate here as it was impacted by the capital gain in the quarter. Essentially, the decrease in the effective tax rate was due to permanent tax preferences and the release of a part of a valuation allowance provided on acquired capital loss carry-forward benefits. We also have a continued shift in the geographic mix of earnings due to Merrill Lynch. Look for the tax rate to be a little more normalized toward statutory in the second half of the year.

Now, in late June we announced the formation of a joint venture with First Data to deliver next generation payment solutions to merchants. Due to our contribution to the joint venture, we recorded a recorded $3.8 billion pretax gain. You shouldn't expect a major change in the ongoing earnings impact to Bank of America given the business' relative size. Additional details of the joint venture are on slide seven.

Offsetting these pose activities, structured notes issued by Merrill Lynch were mark-to-market under the fair value option resulting in a pretax hit to earnings of $3.6 billion, due to the narrowing of Merrill Lynch credit spreads and if you remember the revaluation was a positive $2.2 billion in the first quarter. The applicable credit spreads were cut in half during the quarter, which is a good thing, but as Ken said we feel the impact to earnings. Now, as a reminder, the impact of marking our cash liabilities does not impact Tier One capital. Credit valuation adjustments on derivative liabilities and these are principally in Tom's trading businesses, were revalued resulted in a negative impact of $1.6 billion versus a positive impact of $1.7 billion in the first quarter. Again, a good thing but still negative to current period earnings. Higher deposit insurance premiums due the FDIC special assessment were accrued this quarter and cost us about $760 million.

Now, finally, I'll touch on reductions in market exposures in a few minutes, but let me give you a quick summary of the market disruption charges this quarter which totaled about $1.3 billion. And leverage lending we wrote down an additional $107 million. On the CMBS side we took a charge of approximately $570 million. Primarily related to equity investments and exposure in the hotel industry. On our remaining CDO related exposure we recorded a loss made up of super senior CDO write-downs and that was about $233 million, write-downs on positions retained from CDO liquidations and that was about $170 million and continued and hopefully the final clean-up of various other CDO related positions where we reassigned responsibility for liquidation for all in total of about $813 million. These were offset by some net recovers on other legacy positions.

Now, let me quickly touch upon some highlights for each of the businesses this quarter. Now, as we explained last quarter, impacted some of the segments is lower residual interest income which is the revenue allocated to the business segment that's the result of our asset and liability management and other corporate strategies. Corporate decisions such as delevering the balance sheet that Ken mentioned or changing interest rate positions will impact a level of residual interest income allocated to the business segment.

Now, in our deposit segment on slide eight, earnings were $505 million in the quarter, down from $601 million in the first quarter. Second quarter was impacted by a lower interest income allocation, as well as a major portion of the FDIC special assessment. Absent these items, deposits pretax earnings for the quarter increased $597 million from first quarter, reflecting steady revenue growth and disciplined expense management. Core net interest income increased $223 million driven by balanced growth of $39.5 billion a slight improvement in deposit spreads. Now, this quarter reflected the migration of customers from Global Wealth Management to our deposit segment where they can be serviced more efficiently. The migration contributed $32 billion of linked quarter balance growth. Now, outside of the balance transfers, average balances grew $13 billion organically, not including the $6 billion of planned runoff in the Countrywide portfolio that Ken referenced a minute ago. Now, non-interest income of $1.7 billion grew 16% from the first quarter, the result of seasonality, account growth and revenue initiatives.

In Global Card Services on slide 10, a loss of $1.6 billion was recorded and once again was impacted by high credit cost although down $700 million from the first quarter. Average managed Consumer Credit Card outstanding were down 3% from the first quarter to $172.6 billion. Now, in the second quarter, retail purchase volume and this would be both debit and credit increased 8% from the first quarter due to seasonality although down 10% from a year ago. Even though the economy is contracted, we continue to add new accounts. 611,000 new domestic retail and small business credit card accounts in the quarter with credit lines of approximately $4.2 billion.

Now, Home Loans & Insurance and you see this on slide 11 continues to benefit from the low interest rates. Total revenue for the quarter was $4.5 billion down 15% from first quarter levels, as continued high production revenue was more than offset by lower MSR hedge results. Mortgage services right hedging was more normal this quarter as the write-up in the asset was offset by hedge losses leaving a benefit of roughly $138 million on a net basis versus $1.3 billion in the first quarter. The capitalization rate for the MSR asset ended the quarter at 109 basis points. Provisioning, although down from the first quarter levels, remains high, pushing earnings once again into negative territory. Total first mortgage fundings at $111 billion were up 30% over first quarter and approximately 29% of the fundings were for home purchases and although benefiting some from seasonality, was a very positive sign for the housing market. We maintained strong market share during the quarter.

Now, although we've seen volatility in the rate environment, that started to cause the re-fi volumes to trail off in late June and early July, we have observed volumes picking up with the recent decline in 10 year treasuries which says the re-fi market still has some legs going into the second half of the year. Keep in mind that all of this has occurred as Barbara Desoer's team in Calabasas is managing through the mortgage industry's largest ever consolidation, significant efforts to help customers stay in their homes and a sizable re-fi boom.

Global wealth and investment management and you can see this on slide 12, earned $441 million in the second quarter, down from first quarter levels. This business was also impacted by our overall balance sheet strategy, as net interest income absorbed over $288 million in lower allocated revenue. Assets under management ended the quarter at $705 billion, up $8 billion from the end of March, as the improvement in market valuations more than offset outflows from the money market funds. Non-interest income increased from the first quarter, driven by lower support to certain cash funds, and higher brokerage activity. Turnover among our financial advisor has slowed and we ended the quarter with approximately 15,000. We plan to add to our sales force and are ramping up up our trainee program, which was put on hold during the first six months of integration.

Global Banking, you see this on slide 13, which encompasses our commercial bank, corporate bank and the investment bank, earned $2.5 billion in the quarter versus $172 million in the first quarter, primarily due to the gain from the sale of our merchant processing business as part of our joint venture. Loan spreads continued to widen as facilities were repriced at higher market rates. Although commercial and corporate clients are being cautious given the economy and balances are down, we continue to see improved credit spreads as market prices reflect underlying risks. Provisioning expense increased 40% to $2.6 billion, and reflected a reserve increase of $1.1 billion. Average loans as reported for the quarter were down 2% from the first quarter as clients continued to reduce inventories, and capital expenditures while aggressively managing working capital levels. However, average deposit levels increased $4 billion or almost 2% from the first quarter levels.

Investment Banking fees and this would be across the whole corporation, were $1.65 billion, and that's detailed on slide 14. It was up 56% versus the first quarter. High yield loan syndication and equity capital markets experienced significant growth with syndication fees during the quarter hitting record levels. Advisory revenues dropped by 11% on the back of a substantial drop in global M&A activities and fee pools. The combined Bank of America, Merrill Lynch franchise ranked number one in high yield debt, leveraged loans and MBS, number two in ABS bill volume, and ranked number three in global and number two in US investment banking fees for the first half of 2009.

Turning to Global Markets, on slide 15, they earned $1.4 billion in the second quarter versus $2.4 billion in the first quarter. The trading environment in the second quarter continued to been fit from the improving credit markets and core revenue increased after normalizing for credit valuation adjustments on derivative liabilities and market disruption charges. Our credit businesses and think of this as high grade, high yield public finance and distress had a great quarter, which more than offset a seasonal decline in Commodities and reduced opportunities in rates an currencies due to lower volatility. Risk weighted assets declined nearly 12% reflecting a more efficient use of the balance sheet and market value changes.

As you see on slide 16, sales and trading revenue in the second quarter was $3.9 billion versus $6.3 billion in the first quarter. Now as I mentioned earlier, results this quarter included charges on legacy positions of $1.3 billion in credit valuation adjustments on derivative liabilities of $1.6 billion. Legacy charges in the first quarter were a negative $1.7 billion, while credit valuation adjustments on derivative liabilities in the first quarter were a positive $1.7 billion. Excluding the corresponding impact of legacy adjustments and credit valuation adjustments, our sales and trading revenue this quarter was up approximately $422 million, to more than $6.7 billion driven mainly by fixed income. Now, driving this improvement was strong performance in credit trading due to strong client flows in a market where liquidity rebounded. We detail on slide 17 and 18, a number of the most pertinent legacy exposures in the capital markets businesses. The largest reductions in exposure this quarter were centered in credit default swaps with monoline financial guarantors, where we saw $11 billion of notion come off which represents a reduction of about 20%.

Additionally, the leveraged loan exposure is down to $3 billion on a carried basis, a reduction of $1.4 billion in the second quarter with the remaining exposure made up of senior secured bank debt versus bridge or junior debt tranches. The one area that still needs additional liquidity is CMBS. There has been a small amount of activity in I guess what you'd call "[re-rimmicking]", evidencing some signs of life and spreads have come in, but the activity remains small and while discussions are becoming more robust, know meaningful origination or distribution of positions has occurred.

Not included in the six business segments is equity investment income of $6 billion in the second quarter and that's included on slide 19. As Ken said earlier, we sold some our investment in China Construction Bank and booked a pretax gain of $5.3 billion. In addition we had securities gains of approximately $632 million, offset by impairment charges of non-agency RMBS of $639 million. These positions continued to deteriorate given the weaker underlying cash flows from consumer mortgages.

Now let me switch to credit quality that starts on slide 20. As Ken referenced, credit quality deteriorated further during the quarter as the economy continued to weaken. Consumers experienced increased stress from higher unemployment and underemployment levels, increased bankruptcies, as well as further declines in home prices leading to higher losses in almost all of our consumer portfolios. These factors along with continued pull backs of spending by both consumers and businesses and weakening commercial real estate also negatively impacted the commercial portfolio. Second quarter provision of $13.4 billion exceeded net charge-offs reflecting the addition of $4.7 billion to the reserve, versus an addition of $6.4 billion in the first quarter, as we strengthened our balance sheet to absorb expected losses going forward.

Now, sustained headwinds from the recession continued to impact our consumer portfolios, resulting in reserve increases for most consumer related products, most notably residential mortgage and home equity, albeit at lower levels than the first quarter. On the commercial side, we added approximately $1.1 billion to the core commercial reserves, with a little over half of that in the commercial real estate portfolio, reflecting deterioration outside of residential, particularly across retail and office. And the remainder in the commercial domestic portfolio, from deterioration, which was broad-based in terms of borrowers and industries.

Now, the reserve additions also include approximately $855 million associated with a reduction in expected principal cash flows mostly related to Countrywide, but also some on the Merrill Lynch impaired portfolios driven mainly by continued deterioration in the economy and the home price outlook. Our allowance for loan and lease losses now stands at $33.8 billion or 3.6% of our loan and lease portfolio. Our reserve for unfunded commitments now stands at $2 billion bringing the total reserve to $35.8 billion. We expect continued reserve increases in the second half of 2009, but again, as Ken said, not at the levels experienced so far this year. Obviously, the ultimate level of credit losses and reserve increases will be dependent on the severity and duration of the credit cycle.

Now, on a held basis, net charge-offs in the quarter increased 79 basis points from first quarter levels to 3.64% of the portfolio, or $8.7 billion. On a managed basis, overall consolidated net losses in the quarter, increased 102 basis points to 4.42% of the managed loan portfolio or $11.7 billion. Net losses in the consumer portfolios were 5.45% versus 4.26% in the first quarter. Due to the reduction in balances, principally in the unsecured products, the loss rates are somewhat distorted so I'll talk about them more in dollar terms. Credit card represents 53% of total managed consumer losses. As you can see on slide 21, managed Consumer Credit Card net losses were $5 billion, compared to $3.8 billion in the first quarter. If you remember, the largest jump in early stage delinquencies in our card business was in late 2008, so with 180 day charge-off policy you can see why losses increased this quarter. 30 day plus delinquencies in Consumer Credit Card decreased more than $600 million. Now, while some what we're seeing in early stage delinquencies probably has a seasonality component, we're cautiously optimistic that those trends, if sustained, could eventually stabilize losses. However, continued economic weakness in the US and Europe and higher levels of bankruptcies would obviously keep pressure on this performance. Now, I should note here that much of our reserve increase this quarter in US card related to maturing securitizations and the need to provide reserves if that exposure came back on the balance sheet, rather than being principally related to further unexpected deterioration.

Credit quality in our consumer real estate business continued to deteriorate in the second quarter as shown on slide 22. Before I get into the individual consumer real estate products, let me speak to a couple of important drivers. MPAs which are highlighted on slide 27 increased $3.2 billion in the second quarter compared to an increase of $4.6 billion in the first quarter and now total $19.1 billion. This is primarily comprised of consumer real estate with the lion's share being first mortgages. Now, there are a number of things affecting this portfolio but as a reminder, we generally move consumer real estate to non-performing at 90 days past due and take charge-offs at 180 days. At which time, we write the loans down to appraised value and perform quarterly refreshes, taking additional write-downs as needed. We also have troubled debt restructurings or TDRs which I'll define in a moment that are reflected a as MPAs even though they were not 90 days past due when the restructuring or the remodification was made and lastly, as you're aware, the various moratoriums we instituted on foreclosures have had the effect of holding up loans in non-performing status versus allowing them to clear into REO and ultimate sell. While our efforts to responsibly keep borrowers in their homes and paying as we think that reduces the overall costs, the impact is that the MPA number is inflated. Formal moratoriums have now been lifted as the MHA program and other modification efforts are all up and running. Therefore, once a loan has been evaluated under all our various programs, if no other alternative exists, those loans will be released into foreclosure.

Now, specifically switching to home equity, and this is back on slide 22, our home equity portfolio continued to be negatively impacted by rising unemployment and centered in higher CLTV loans particularly in the states that have experienced the significant decreases in home prices. Home equity net charge-offs increased to $1.8 billion compared to $1.7 billion in the first quarter. Now, as we saw in card, 30 plus performing delinquencies are down $646 million, or 39 basis points to 1.29%, which is a positive sign. We're attributing part of the trend to early collection efforts and some seasonality until we see it sustained. Now, we continue to see increased utilization rates and they're up about 140 basis points to 55%, although period end balances are down and net draws on home equity lines were at their lowest compared to the past several quarters, I think they were under $2 billion this quarter. Open lines are $100 billion are for the most part to customers with refreshed FICOs greater than 740 scores and refreshed CLTVs of less than 90%. Non-performing assets in home equity and this principally loans greater than 90 days past due, rose to $3.97 billion, an increase of $300 million, less than half of the increase we saw in the first quarter.

Now, as you're aware, we've been working with borrowers to modify their loans to terms that better align with their current ability to pay. When we do that, under most circumstances, we identify these as troubled debt restructurings or TDRs, which are modifications where economic concession has been granted to the borrower. Some of these modified loans were already in our non-performing assets. However, many were accelerated into non-performing classification upon modification. Non-performing home equity TDRs increased $700 million. The acceleration of performing loans into MPAs upon modification was the principal driver of the MPA increase, as 75% or $650 million of the home equity non-performing TDRs done in the quarter were performing at the time of modification.

To give you some additional color on the MPAs, TDRs where we have improved the likelihood of repayment make up 36% of home equity MPAs. In addition, about one third or $1.4 billion of the MPAs are greater than 180 days past due and have been written down to appraised values. Now, we increased reserves for this portfolio to $8.7 billion or 5.59% of ending balances due to continued elevated levels of delinquencies and size of the unit charge-offs which is more reflective of the size of the delinquent loans than in increasing severity as severities have actually extra stabilized.

Now, our residential mortgage portfolio showed an increase in losses to $1.1 billion or 172 basis points. That's 138 basis points net of our [resi wrap] from the $785 million, and an increase pretty consistent with what we saw in the first quarter. As we saw in other areas, we've now seen two consecutive quarters of stable or as was the case this quarter, declining 30 day delinquencies. On the non-performing asset front we saw an increase of $2.8 billion, about a quarter less than the $3.8 billion we saw in the first quarter. Non-performing TDRs increased $1.3 billion in the second quarter, with about 35% of the increase being from loans that were performing at the time of modification. Now, of the $14.5 billion of residential mortgage MPAs, TDRs make up 14%. About 60% or $8.8 billion of the MPAs are greater than 180 days past due and have been written down to appraised value. Given the weakness in the economy and continued declines in home prices, we anticipate continued deterioration in this portfolio and therefore would expect some additional reserve increases. Our reserve levels were increased on this portfolio during the quarter and represent 1.67% of period end loan balances.

Now, on slide 23 we provide you with details on our direct and indirect loans which includes the auto and other dealer related portfolios, as well as consumer lending. Net charge-offs in our auto and other dealer related portfolios actually decreased to $199 million or 1.96%, from 2.78% in the first quarter. Probably a slight extension of the normal seasonality pattern but clearly encouraging. We saw the expected increase in consumer lending charge-offs that were reserved for over the last several quarters and expect them to somewhat level off in dollar terms due to the improvements in both early and later stage delinquencies.

Switching to our consumer portfolios, and you can see this on slide 28, net charge-offs increased in the quarter to $2.1 billion, or 237 basis points up to 69 basis points from the first quarter. Net losses in our $18 billion small business portfolio, which are reported as commercial loan losses increased $140 million to 16.69%, and are most pronounced in states experiencing severe housing pressure. As we talked about before, many of the issues in small business relate to how we grew the portfolio over the past few years, which is now compounded by the current economic trends. However, we think we're close to a peak in small business losses as indicated by linked quarter declines and 30 plus delinquencies and flat 90 plus delinquencies. Our current allowance stands at 16% of the portfolio.

Excluding small business, commercial net charge-offs increased $461 million from the first quarter, to $1.3 billion, representing a charge-off ratio of 158 basis points. The increase was driven by commercial domestic exposure centered in the financial sector and to a lesser extent by commercial real estate. Now, in total, the losses in the quarter were split almost equally between non-real estate and real estate. A couple of individual exposures drove most of the non-real estate increase and the rest was pretty granular. Now, within commercial real estate, net losses increased 78 basis points to 3.34%. While commercial real estate losses continued to be centered in home builders, I think that was more than 60% of the second quarter real estate losses, about 26% were related to principally office and retail.

Commercial MPAs and this is detailed on slide 29 rose $2.2 billion, $669 million less than the increase in the first quarter, to $11.9 billion. 50% of the increase was due to commercial real estate, trending more to non-residential exposure like office and retail versus home builders, which had driven much of the increase over the past few quarters. Let me give you some color behind the makeup of our commercial MPAs. Commercial real estate makes up about 60% of the balance or about $7 billion with a little over half of that being home builders. Outside of commercial real estate, the balance is concentrated in housing related and consumer dependent portfolios within commercial domestic. MPAs are most significant in commercial services and supplies, and here think realtors or employment agencies, office supplies or those types of companies, at 5% of total of commercial non MPAs followed by individuals and trusts, capital markets, and vehicle dealers at 3% each, and no other industry comprises greater than 2%. Just under 90% of our commercial MPAs are collateralized and almost 40% are contractually current. Total commercial MPAs are carried at about 75% of original value before considering our loan loss reserves.

Reservable criticized utilized exposure in our commercial book, increased $8.5 billion in the second quarter, compared to an increase of $11.7 billion in the first. While the increase was still large and reflective of the continued deterioration in the economy, it slowed and was comprised of about 40% real estate and 60% non-real estate. Commercial real estate criticized increased $3.6 billion, to $21.2 billion. While home builders with $7.3 billion still represent the largest concentration, we actually saw a reduction there of $330 million. Now the largest increases were in retail and office, which are our second and third largest criticized concentrations within commercial real estate. Outside of commercial real estate, we saw further weakening and again housing related and consumer dependent businesses. 80% of the assets in the commercial reservable criticized are secured, of which 10% is in our highly secured asset based lending business. Also remember that asset based lending shows a resurgence in recessionary environment and that many of our asset based lending credits are considered criticized as soon as the loan is made but charge-offs are exceptionally low due to the high margin requirements. While we obviously see some continued deterioration, our past rated credit discussions this quarter have felt much better than they have over the course of the last few quarters. Assuming no change, that should translate into lower flows into criticized.

Now, going forward, we think we'll see some leveling off or decline in home builder charge-offs offset by increases in non-residential commercial real estate as well as commercial domestic. In the non-real estate charge-offs this quarter, we expect to see more diverse charge-offs over the next several quarters, given the economy. Now, as we did with all portfolios, additional reserves were added in the second quarter, bringing our commercial coverage to 2.48% of loans that would be 1.76% excluding small business.

Let me get off credit quality and say a couple of things about net interest income and I'm on slide 31. Compared to first quarter on a managed and FTE basis, net interest income was down $892 million. Core NII dropped to approximately $527 million while market based NII, dropped by $365 million, in line directionally with our comments three months ago. Now, the core NII decrease was due mainly to our continued delevering of the ALM portfolio and lower loan levels, which was across the board due to weaker demand, partially offset by the impact of favorable rate environment and improved pricing. Also impacting our net interest income was the drag from asset quality, both non-performing as well as interest reversals. This negative impact on core managed NII in the second quarter was $1.1 billion, due to non-performing assets, and that was approximately -- or non-performing assets of approximately $300 million and interest reversals of approximately $800 million. Combined, this impact was approximately $200 million worse than first quarter. And most of the earned interest reversals as you might imagine relate to credit card.

The core net interest margin on a managed basis increased seven basis points to 3.72% due to improved yield curve. At this point I wouldn't expect a lot of movement in the core net interest income margin in the near term. And the negative impact of the discretionary portfolio delevering was pretty much absorbed this quarter. Now, prior to the fourth quarter, our risk position had been liability sensitive where we benefit as rates decline and are exposed as rates rise. As we discussed last quarter, our risk position has evolved to become more asset sensitive due to a reduction in fixed rate mortgages because of the deleveraging and the addition of Merrill Lynch. As you can see from the bubble chart on slide 33 which as you know is based on the forward curve, our interest rate risk position hasn't changed much from the first quarter. Given how low rates are, we're comfortable with our current interest rate risk profile.

Let me say a few things about capital. You can see this on slide 35. The Tier One capital ratio at the end of June was 11.93%, up 184 basis points or $20 billion from the first quarter due mainly to our capital actions in the second quarter. Our Tier One capital level is $95 billion in excess of the 6% well capitalized minimum requirement. Tier One common increased $34 billion to 6.9%, an increase of 241 basis points. Now, I should note here that we have also increased credit reserves $11 billion since year end, the effective date of the stress test.

Our tangible common equity ratio increased 154 basis points to 4.67%. During the quarter, we raised and you can see this on slide 36 almost $13.5 billion in common equity through the direct issuance of 1.25 billion common shares at a price of $10.77 per share and exchanged an additional one billion shares at an effective price of $14.80 per share for $14.8 billion of preferred stock for a combined total of $28.3 billion in new common equity. The exchange for preferred shares will translate into reduced dividends of almost $1 billion on an annual basis. Quarterly preferred dividend payments going forward are projected to be $1.1 billion, $350 million for private preferreds. And approximately $713 million for government preferreds plus an additional $180 million of non-cash amortization of the discounts related to assigning value to the warrants and the TARP deals. Remaining private preferreds at the the end of June total $18 billion as you can see on slide 37, down $14.8 billion from the end of March. Now, we gave you a good deal of detail on the package and previously filed 8-Ks on the impact of the share exchanges on this quarter's earnings, share count and the other applicable information that should help you in your modeling.

Going forward into the second half of 2009, and in line with what Ken said, we've been fighting the downturn for almost two years now, but think we are seeing a slowing in credit deterioration with a peak in overall credit losses over the next few quarters. Having said that, it's difficult to call the specific quarter when credit costs start to drop substantially from the peak. Now, however, once we hit the inflection point on losses where we no longer have to build reserves we should get some significant lift. We have a very strong balance sheet and a robust and conservative liquidity position, strong credit reserves and a solid capital position. As our six month results demonstrated we're engaged 100% in leveraging the strengths of the corporation to be profitable on an EPS basis, and add to our capital levels. While we expect credit losses to trend higher in most of our businesses, we believe the level of our reserves and revenue generation over the next several quarters will enable us to get through the period with minimal impact on capital levels. Both Merrill Lynch and Countrywide contributed positively to earnings over the first half of the year. And the Merrill Lynch integration effort is on track and continues to make headway. Cost saves were approximately $800 million this quarter or $1.2 billion for six months so we're well on our way towards exceeding 40% of the total cost saves which if you remember were targeted at $7 billion annually in 2009 and well ahead of our original goal. So, while the next few will be challenging, we saw great business momentum this quarter and believe we can continue to move Bank of America forward from both a competitive and operational standpoint.

With that, let me open it up for questions and thank you for your attention.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions). This one from Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney Advisory Group.

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY GROUP: Good morning. I have a couple unrelated questions. My first one is related to the merchant processing business joint venture with First Data. Is Charlie Fort the private investor who is investing along with you and then can you talk about or give us an idea about the capital structure that entity may at some point take on in terms of -- is that a potential spin out? That's the first question. Then I have a follow-up after that, please.

KEN LEWIS: Meredith, we haven't disclosed the third party investor of either side, first data, nor us. On the second part, what I would tell you is we're really focused on combining the two platforms, kind of focused on serving our clients and taking advantage of that. Any subsequent actions are right now not on the horizon. That's a down the road kind of question.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. And then my next question has to do with small businesses and unrelated but also related to the fact that your multi-seller conduit facility was down this quarter. The broader question, understand that environment. Is that market in any way coming back? What's the outlook on that market? And then if you could just speak more broadly to small businesses, obviously CIT's been in the headlines, your outlook on small businesses related to cards as well, that would be helpful. Thanks so much.

KEN LEWIS: Well, I guess we had a couple comments in our remarks where we're continuing -- we as a Company are continuing to do business and be active in lending there. I'd say on a broader basis, and I'm going to merge slightly small business with maybe the part of middle market, if you went around the franchise, I think you would generally hear from a business standpoint, because of the consumer pullback, continued tight management of inventory levels, working capital, suspension of CapEx, all those same types of things just on a slightly smaller scale as you go down the spectrum of the size of the Company. So all of that is still there. I would probably then based on that characterize it as much demand driven and actions by the small businesses, as it is inability to find financing to be able to grow, obviously, there's some piece of that but that's the way we kind of are seeing it right now.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Just one last question. I had asked this on last quarter's conference call as well. Some think that California real estate has bottomed. You still see a contraction in liquidity to subprime and some subprime actually looks like it deteriorated, this is for the industry, this quarter. Could you comment on your outlook on subprime because you do have exposure there and as does the industry and if we're seeing stabilization of losses there or what your outlook is?

KEN LEWIS: Yes, Meredith, I think California is so large that it's hard to always talk about it as one single market. But what we have seen is in the hardest hit areas, you are seeing actually some home price increases and increases in sales. But that's off a very, very low bottom.

OPERATOR: We'll go to our next question, this one from the site of Adam [Herch] from Jupiter Advisors. Your line is open.

ADAM HERCH, ANALYST, JUPITER ADVISORS: Good morning. Thank you. Could you give us additional insight into the credit card business and maybe how losses at the credit card business on a frequency and severity basis fire compare to the industry overall? Thank you.

JOE PRICE: Well, if you look at our credit card business, it tends to have -- each competitor is different, so it's hard to kind of just do it to the industry at large, but we tend to have a good bit of borrowing kind of business as opposed to necessarily just pure transacting business and as a result of that more of our traditional revenue stream in the last few years has come from associated revenue, interest income and the other attendant revenue flows off of that. In addition to that, we probably have traditionally run a little higher line size and therefore, because of that, you would see slightly higher loss per account when you come through. So that's probably the way to contrast or compare to the industry. There are a number of other factors but that one would probably be one pointed to what you were asking.

ADAM HERCH: What that would suggest is that by pulling in lines across the business, there should be an ability to control for the losses going forward.

KEN LEWIS: Well, line management efforts obviously are all focused on controlling losses from there. I'd say that that's part of the strategy but obviously the strength of the consumer will be the overriding factor.

ADAM HERCH: Thank you very much.

KEN LEWIS: You've actually got two variables that go a different way. You've got increased bankruptcies and unemployment levels going up and those obviously are drivers and then on the other side you've got 90 day and 30 day delinquencies going the right way. So at some point, the 30 day, 90 day phenomenon will win out. That's going to take several quarters.

ADAM HERCH: Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Matt O'Connor from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

JOE PRICE: Hi, Matt.

MATT O'CONNOR: Some early signs that the consumer is bottoming here while at the same time maybe there's signs that the commercial buckets collectively are getting worse for the industry. Obviously Bank of America is more tilted toward the consumer. Think of that macro backdrop and your mix, as we think about the charge-offs peaking over the next few quarters, is the outlook do you think at this point more uncertain on the commercial side or the consumer side in terms of predicting the peak of losses?

JOE PRICE: I don't know that I -- I don't know that I have a good answer for you, Matt. I think on the consumer side, the delinquency levels and the other factors that Ken kind of references has given us some insight if those are sustained in being able to predict leveling off and then at some point peaking on there and you do that on a portfolio basis. For commercial, you tend to focus -- and I'm talking beyond small business -- you tend to focus individual credit by credit when you're looking at charge-offs and so you probably have a little better ability to look forward on that and it's less macroeconomic trended, it's more individual credit because of the structure of the deals and things like that. So I think generally speaking, you tend to have more comfort, if you want to call it that, in some of the commercial outlooks than you do on consumer, but it's more because of the type of the credit and the ability to look at the structure than the economic backdrop that you talked about which your indication would otherwise be the way to think about it.

KEN LEWIS: And if you think about -- if you think that the economy is beginning to bottom and you'll get some stabilization or some slight improvement in the economy, that would say that you would rather be dealing with the commercial side than what we've been dealing with on the consumer side.

MATT O'CONNOR: I guess it's just hard to tell on the commercial side whether there's a lag in terms of the economy and I think the banks in general including you guys did a much better job underwriting commercial than maybe some of the previous cycles but it's hard to get your arms around if there's a lag.

KEN LEWIS: I think there's a little bit of a lag but you do have the economy's bottoming going for you if that's the case.

MATT O'CONNOR: Just separately, there's a lot of accounting proposals out there and regulatory proposals in general, who knows how it will all play out. One thing that seems high probability is that the credit card receivables will come on balance sheet I believe beginning next year. Some reserve accounting will change. I think you've got about $85 billion, $86 billion of securitized card. As you work on your capital planning, your reserve methodology, how have you accounted for that.

JOE PRICE: Well, it's clearly considered. Remember that the trusts, the credit card trust came on balance sheet for regulatory accounting purposes in the first quarter. Obviously, you still have to deal with the reserve impact of it and then from a GAAP standpoint, in January you would anticipate that coming on. Clearly -- and it wouldn't be limited, Matt, just to cards. Under the new accounting, it would be a number of the off-balance sheet structures but card being the biggest one. Right now, that roll-on fits into our capital planning and our analysis of reserves, and necessary reserves, so we're assuming that both the credit card trust, the revolving home equity, and the asset based conduits come back on and some other things. Many of those like the asset based already again carry regulatory capital wouldn't have big reserve requirements so focus back on card, we would envision putting it on and putting reserves on for that under our current methodology.

MATT O'CONNOR: The Tier One common ratio already includes in the RWAs the securitized credit card?

JOE PRICE: Assets, Yes, Yes.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then the reserving, I mean, typically I guess it's nine months of reserves?

JOE PRICE: Yes, it's not quite that clean but whatever our existing policy is at the point in time would be what we would be following and we have a little more other items that stick on top of that nine, but generally and directionally you're there.

MATT O'CONNOR: All right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from the site of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets. Your line is open.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. I think everybody's trying to predict when we peak out on these charge-offs but we still got an unemployment rate that continues to grow I think faster than expectations. When do you think that -- can we see a peak in charge-offs before the unemployment rate peaks or will it most likely come after the unemployment rate peaks or the job market peaks. I know the unemployment rate is kind of -- it's a wild card.

JOE PRICE: It's speculation from that standpoint. What I would tell you is that we have seen in the early stage, and again, you've got to be careful because there's two quarter -- two quarters don't make a trend but you have seen reductions in early stage delinquencies and in some into the later stage in some of the -- like home equity product that we talked about that has occurred at the same time that you have seen what's happened to unemployment. So I think there's so many factors working on a consumer's ability to pay, unemployment is one. Underemployment is one, all the other factors, that it's hard to get comfortable that the traditional correlation really is as tight as we might have been able to predict in the past.

KEN LEWIS: And the bankruptcy factor, Paul. That's a big -- that is a big deal.

PAUL MILLER: Yes, I guess the other question is I know the bankruptcy thing is convoluting the data. The other is the cure rates. Some of the feedback that I get is that the cure rates are not at traditional levels either. Even though we're seeing some stabilization at 30 day, is the cure rate improving from a year ago or six months ago also or are they relatively the same or getting worse?

JOE PRICE: We'll probably have to have -- get back to you specifically on any particular portfolio. I'd tell you, if you just kind of look at returns to early stage buckets or returns to other things for something like real estate product, it takes quite a few sustained on-time payments to get returned to accrual status and that I would say you're probably right. You haven't seen a lot of kind of migration from cures back in on that product. Card is probably a little more traditional.

PAUL MILLER: And then moving on to I guess another big macro question, I mean, you guys did a really good job with your pretax, preprovision numbers, $14 billion range. Which if you go back six months ago and I think Ken you made a comment that you thought your pretax, preprovision numbers for this combined Company could be in that $45 billion, $50 billion range. I don't know if you updated that. If you did, I missed it. You're definitely ahead of that pace. Do you think that that $14 billion is sustainable over the next couple quarters? I know that's a tough question to ask but I think that goes a long way determining where the valuation of this thing is.

KEN LEWIS: Yes. I think the -- the issue is the volatility of course in your capital markets. It's such a big factor that it's hard to say. I would -- I feel very comfortable with the earlier comments about the annualized preprovision number and -- but to talk about it on a quarter-to-quarter basis is pretty hard, Paul.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. I know it is, Ken. Hey, Ken, thank you very much.

KEN LEWIS: Okay.

JOE PRICE: Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Mike Mayo with CLSA. Your line is open.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CALYON SECURITIES: Good morning.

KEN LEWIS: Good morning.

MIKE MAYO: A little bit more on the 30 to 90 day stage delinquencies are looking good but the outlook is still negative for the next six months. The first question is, what's the severity on these lines? In other words, even if delinquencies were to stabilize, would worse severity mean higher loan losses in the future? That's kind of number one. Number two, Joe, can you elaborate on what you mean by the seasonal impact on delinquencies? I guess. Number three, I guess you're assuming 10% unemployment where as our economist here is expected 11.5% unemployment. So what would be the impact if we got to that higher unemployment level?

JOE PRICE: Let me give these a shot, Mike. Might have to remind me at the end of the question.

MIKE MAYO: On the severity, the seasonal I'm pact and the impact of unemployment.

JOE PRICE: Yes, on the severity side, and it's easiest for me to think about that on the consumer real estate product, our increases that we experienced some increases on let's call it on a unit basis this quarter, but they really weren't driven by severity. Severities actually held in reasonably well over the last six months. What we've tended to see is a little bit larger loan side which kind of tells you it's a migration probably out of subprime into a different customer over the course of the last six months, so you have bigger loan size at the same severity gave you a little higher loss per unit. That tends to be what we've seen more of in that product type. On your seasonality, and of course that's a big part of our portfolio, on the seasonality component, it doesn't necessarily hold in all products but you generally see a slight decline in delinquencies and even charge-offs in the early part of the year, let's call it the latter part of the first quarter, into the second and kind of like a check mark, tends to trend back up a little bit. This is a little more sustained than that and its rolled in some cases to later stage buckets but we are still attributing a good part of that improvement to seasonality until it holds on a sustained basis and works its way all the way through to charge offs.

MIKE MAYO: What is it about the seasonal factor? What's the factor behind that?

KEN LEWIS: Well, for instance, tax refunds, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: Anything else that comes to mind?

JOE PRICE: You tend to get -- take something like the auto business, you tend to get new models coming in. There are a number of things that happen in the industry that tend to drive it. Spring season, people want to in in their boats on the lake. There are all kind of little behavioral things that might cause the consumer to be -- to come a little more current or be more timely in that first point.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And then the last question, unemployment, if we -- instead peak at 11.5% instead of 10%, what impact would that have on your charge-off expectations?

JOE PRICE: Well, I mean, for an unemployment level to continue to increase, clearly it signals a broader weakness in the economy and continued weakness in consumer spending and all those things. I'm not -- I don't have a pinpoint answer for you as much as it would be additional costs that we would have to absorb, probably most pertinently on the consumer side. But it would roll through that additional weakness would roll through your commercial portfolios.

KEN LEWIS: I don't know if it's as simple as saying 11% is a more than 10%. I think it's that simple. When we do, and we have scenarios that at higher employment levels, I just don't have it before me, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. All right. Thank you.

KEN LEWIS: Thanks, Mike.

OPERATOR: Take the next question from the site of Ed Najarian from ISI Group. Your line is open.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. Just a couple of quick questions. Number one, did you actually give the amount of the tax benefit that you outlined or do you have the dollar amount of that tax benefit?

JOE PRICE: You mean -- no, we didn't disclose the specifics but think of it as driving the principal benefit in the first quarter.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. So -- but we can't get sort of an estimate of the dollar amount of that tax benefit this quarter?

JOE PRICE: Let me -- when I get to the 10-Q and we put the details in, I'll -- we'll put it in there, but think of the Merrill Lynch unrecognized capital loss carry-forwards that were basically triggered due to our change in capital gains, actual and outlook, as being the principal driver that released that.

ED NAJARIAN: Do you have kind of a range of what the normalized or what the -- what approximately the tax rate would have been without that benefit in 2Q?

JOE PRICE: No, the only -- again, that's kind of the backside of asking the same question. When we get the Q out you'll see a reconciliation of the unused benefits that we'll lay out. But just think going forward of migrating back towards something more towards I guess conceptually a statutory kind of rate.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And then second question has to do with the change in the credit card rules, credit card holder bill of rights I guess it's called. JPMorgan outlined that they expected that to negatively impact revenue by about $500 million to $700 million in 2010. Do you guys have any kind of an estimate on how that will impact your credit card revenues?

KEN LEWIS: It should be about the same. They're about the same size portfolios and we're obviously working on that issue because it's enough to get your attention and seeing ways if there are ways that we can mitigate that number. But that's a decent ballpark number.

ED NAJARIAN: And then would you expect to be able to sort of work around that number, so that the bulk of that revenue would come back the following year, based on changing product structures and things like that?

KEN LEWIS: That's really what we're working on as we speak, Ed, trying to see how we can offset the negative impacts.

ED NAJARIAN: All right. Thank you. And then this is kind of a very long range, big picture kind of question, but just sitting here today and thinking about getting through this credit cycle, continuing to build capital ratios, what are your preliminary thoughts about the process that you would go through and maybe even if you could give any insight on the timing that you would think about in terms of repaying the TARP preferred equity. In other words, would it be we'll take our time, we'll continue to build capital and try to pay as much of that back without issuing stock as possible or would you -- would it be more in the realm of, you know, we would like to pay it back sooner rather than later and would be willing to raise capital to do so?

KEN LEWIS: Well, we've raised the capital and as you can see from some of the ratios, they -- just well north of any minimum, well capitalized numbers. Our desire is to pay the TARP money back sooner rather than later. We do -- we've got the capital ratios and liquidity. We don't think we would be allowed to do it all at once and so the first thing is just conversations about when can we begin and how much. And so those discussions have begun, Ed, but I can't give you a time frame other than saying that we're in discussions.

ED NAJARIAN: And just one more quick question related to that. To the extent that you would have to raise at least some equity to pay back the $45 billion, would you expect that capital to be raised as preferred or as common?

JOE PRICE: Again, as Ken said, we think the capital that we've raised so far gives us clear flexibility on beginning a process here and the ultimate full repayment will be dependent a little bit on where the state of the economy is, the economy improves and our internal generation comes back strong, that would be the preferred approach to go after it.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. All right. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. Good morning.

KEN LEWIS: Hi Betsy.

JOE PRICE: Hey Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Hi. Couple questions. One's on California, just generally speaking, there is the budget issue, the IOU issue that's going on right now. How do you think about the degree with which that impacts your portfolio? Are you doing anything from a risk management perspective differently due to that situation?

JOE PRICE: Well, I don't know if it's incremental specifically to that situation, Betsy. If you thing about what is kind of where you had a lot of the increase in home prices and then the subsequent hardest drops, California was obviously one of those so a lot of your risk management practices were kind of migrated over the course of the last year plus, from that standpoint. The actual exposure, direct exposure to the state is manageable when the IOU issue was not as big as might have been predicted. So it comes back to how's the state of the economy in California and as Ken said, we are seeing some bottoming out in some areas of California, from a consumer real estate standpoint, seeing some good signs in the terms of sales, increases and inventories coming down and things like that. But it is still a tough unemployment situation in the state and you add the state budget to it, makes us stay very focused. But I wouldn't say any less or any more focused than we were because we already had it as an area that you were looking at.

BETSY GRASECK: Then on the reinvestment of your liquidity, your liquidity's building as you indicated. Can you give us a sense as to how you will be approaching reinvestment opportunities and is there an opportunity to reduce some of these negative drags on NII such that NII may have bottomed this quarter?

JOE PRICE: That's a tough question because as you know the dominant dimension of this Company is the stable funding base and that's what we're going to protect so as long as the outlook is still uncertain, I guess is what as the outlook is still uncertain, I guess is what I would call it, you should expect to see us to continue to protect liquidity and that would be in the forefront of what we're doing. You couple that with where the rate structure is right now and other things and I'll call it lack of opportunity maybe for shorter duration, good spread product and it leaves you with probably being patient rather than trying to jump back into something.

KEN LEWIS: Which means Betsy kind of a steady NII for the next few quarters at least.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Jefferson Harralson with KBW. Your line is open.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: I was going to follow up on an earlier question about the off-balance sheet assets coming back on. You talked about prefunding some reserve build for those assets coming on. Can you talk about I guess how much reserve is sitting on the balance sheet for in anticipation of the cards coming back on?

JOE PRICE: Yes, I didn't mean for you to interpret what I said earlier of prefunding. Under the accounting rules, when the under GAAP when the structures come back on is when you need to put your reserves on. What I was speaking to was the risk weighted assets have already come back on for regulatory capital purposes for the credit card trust and then the ways asset based conduits work your capital is pretty consistent, whether it's on or off from that standpoint but from a reserve standpoint we'll have to take that as an adoption of the new accounting standard impact when it actually comes on.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Do you thing that would be a reserve for the cards would be front end loaded into Q1 or would it be spread out over 2010 or what would that look like?

JOE PRICE: Probably have to go back and be certain here but I think the way the final rules came out it would be a transition adjustment or be a one-time charge. There was talk at one point about it being spread but that's not the way it ended up.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: The total off-balance sheet assets are coming back on with the cards included, are we talking about closer to $200 billion there or $400 billion? Or how far -- how close are we to figuring out what that number is?

JOE PRICE: Right now, I would say the card business, our resolving home equity and the conduits would make up the bulk of that and I would think of that somewhere in the range of about $150 billion. Of which, again, card is the biggest part and already in a regulatory capital.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.

JOE PRICE: Okay.

OPERATOR: We can go folks the site of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. I was just curious if the second quarter numbers incorporate the results of the shared national credit exam and do you have any color on how that review went this year, both for B of A and just in general?

JOE PRICE: Yes, as you know, we can't really talk about the specifics of the exam result but I would tell you that everything that we experienced or were aware of is in our results for second quarter.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer and Company.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & COMPANY: Two questions. One is a bit more of a nit and that is if you look on the consolidated P&L you see credit card fee income go down from $2.9 billion to $2.1 billion. So like a 25% decrease. But if you look through the segment reports, there's nothing that would indicate that kind of change. And can you square that circle for me?

JOE PRICE: Yes. The business units are on a managed basis so the securitizations would be reflected as if we have all the loans on but if you go to -- for the income statement. If you go to the consolidated, we have GAAP reporting so what you're seeing is the losses on the securitized portfolio increase generally driving that discrepancy you see.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: And then secondly, sort of more big picture question, and that is you mentioned at the outset sort of the reserve building would go on for next two quarters. But is it a fair characterization that you're determined to have any reserve building done by the end of 2009? And that next year one should see provision in charge-offs more or less tracking together?

KEN LEWIS: Well, you'd have to be a psychic and be able to predict the economy so I couldn't do that but what we would -- if provision build continues into 2010, we would see it lessening each quarter. So beginning next quarter and the next, we see less of a provision for reserve build, but I can't predict when it would end completely.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And due to time constraints, our last question will come from from the site of Nancy Bush from NAB Research, LLC. Your line is open.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH, LLC: Got it in under the wire.

KEN LEWIS: We were missing you, Nancy.

NANCY BUSH: Couple of questions here. One just sort of procedural or more mundane. Joe, could you just tell us what the ongoing new FDIC assessment will be on a quarterly basis, sort of just roughly?

JOE PRICE: Nancy, can I come back to you and give you the exact amount? I mean, the special assessment of 760 is all in there so if you're thinking about kind of run rate, if you back that out, we would be at the right point is probably the best way to think about it.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Great. Secondly, this sort of goes hand in hand with Ed Najarian's question. I'm not sure you'll be able to answer it but I need to ask it anyway. This issue of the agreement on the back stops and whether or not there will be some price to be paid for a non-existent agreement, can you tell us when you expect or what your best expectation right now is when that issue gets resolved?

JOE PRICE: Well, I guess, Nancy, the first thing I would say is we've clearly been informed there's no supervisory concern with this thing dragging on and so that centers it on just how do we close it out. And while I'd say we're not going to negotiate in public, I would fully expect us to reach resolution on this thing within the next 30 days.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. And if indeed there is a charge or some payment that goes with that, is it likely that that would be something that would have to be expensed or is there some reserve sitting around somewhere that that might come out of?

JOE PRICE: We would have looked at our own view of that but again, I wouldn't go into that specifically, so we would have something but I have no idea what might come back at me. So, its hard to answer that.

NANCY BUSH: And just thirdly, the loss rates in some of your master trust, card master trusts are quite high, and I'm wondering if there's anything particular about the MBNA portfolio, the old sort of legacy MBNA way of underwriting, if you're able to look back at that. Is this an underwriting issue? If you could just give us a little bit of color on those loss rates?

JOE PRICE: Well, I think over the course of the last several years, as we expanded beyond a lot of the affinity programs which may have been a little more of the center of the legacy MBNA, you got a more of a borrower than a transactor and that obviously in this kind of downturn has led to where we are. So the trust itself, think of that as reasonably blended compared to our total portfolio and that's generally across the total portfolio what we experienced.

NANCY BUSH: All right. Great. Thank you very much.

KEN LEWIS: Thank you.

KEVIN STITT: Thanks very much, everyone.

OPERATOR: And this concludes today's teleconference. Have a great day. You may disconnect at any time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | gcon : Consumer Affairs | e1106 : Consumer Credit/Expenditure/Savings | c184 : Joint Ventures | c151 : Earnings | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c314 : Pricing | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c31 : Marketing
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090731e57h000p1
  


 HD
 Q1  2009  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,286 words
   PD
20 April 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to today's teleconference. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). We will take questions in turn following the presentation. Please note today's call may be recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt, please begin sir.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements in that these statements, regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks, that may cause actual results in the future, to be different from our current expectations.

These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.

With that let me turn it over to Ken Lewis.

KENNETH LEWIS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PRESIDENT, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Thank you for joining our earnings review. Our goal that we communicated to you in January, given our view of the economy, was to produce earnings for 2009 that are accretive to capital levels. We believe first quarter results are a clear example of our ability to produce such earnings, to offset the significant impact from a contracting economy, and abnormally high credit costs.

Total revenue on an FTE basis was in excess of $36 billion, while pretax pre-provision income was approximately $19 billion, both were easily record levels. Positive drivers in the quarter included a particularly favorable trading environment for interest rate products, currencies, credit products, and equity derivatives, elevated mortgage banking income related to higher volumes, benefits from the sale of certain securities and equity investments, continued momentum in new deposit generation, and prudent balance sheet management.

The earnings impact of these positives were offset by a substantial increase in provision expense, and the impact of lower consumer spending across many of our businesses. It is interesting that the two businesses, that is Merrill Lynch and Countrywide, that garnered the most press, provided a significant contribution to revenue and earnings growth. For the first quarter 2009 Bank of America earned $4.2 billion before preferred dividends, or $0.44 per diluted share, after including preferred dividends of $1.4 billion.

Major items in the quarter included the addition of Merrill Lynch on January 1st, accounted for approximately $3.7 billion in net income this quarter, prior to certain merger related costs. Mortgage banking income increased $1.8 billion to $3.3 billion, compared to the fourth quarter as first mortgage production levels of $85 billion increased significantly, reflecting the strength of the origination platform. Shares of China Construction Bank were sold for a pretax gain of $1.9 billion, which reduced our ownership from 19% to approximately 17%.

Also in the quarter securities, MBS, were sold for a gain of $1.5 billion in part to avoid prepayment risk. Structured notes at Merrill Lynch, which are marked to market under the fair value option, were revalued resulting in a $2.2 billion increase to the P&L. Total realized cost saves from the Merrill Lynch transition were approximately $420 million in the quarter, while merger related expenses from Merrill Lynch were approximately $510 million pretax. Total credit extended in the first quarter was $183 billion, including commercial renewals, up from $181 billion in the fourth quarter.

The larger components are $85 billion in first mortgages, $71 billion in commercial, and $11 billion in commercial real estate. The remaining $16 billion includes other consumer retail loans and small business loans. Provision expense increased almost $5 billion from the fourth quarter, and included a $6.4 billion reserve increase, versus $3 billion in the fourth quarter. Included in our record revenue levels were losses in global markets totaling $1.7 billion, associated with additional market disruption losses that have impacted past quarter, which Joe will review.

We decreased the period end balance sheet in global markets on a pro forma basis by 21%, or $149 billion. Average core retail deposit levels, that is legacy Bank of America before the addition of Countrywide and Merrill Lynch, ended the quarter up $33 billion, or 6% from levels a year ago, which we believe is a multiple of market growth. We exited the fourth quarter with a focus on balancing deposit growth and profitability, demonstrated by our efforts to lead market pricing lower, in response to significant Fed fund rate declines.

As we saw competitive and market pressures increase in the first quarter, we saw responded with new savings products, marketing, and associate engagement activities during the month of February. By the end of the quarter and continuing into the second quarter, we believe we have regained momentum in our ability to grow market share. Capital levels improved from the end of December. Tier 1 capital increased to $171 billion, or 10.1% of risk weighted assets, while the tangible common equity ratio increased to 3.13%.

Before I turn it over to Joe, let me make a couple comments about our [Company] given the current environment. Fist, make no doubt about it, credit is bad, and we believe credit is going to get worse, before it will eventually stabilize and improve. Whether that turn is later this year, or in the first half of 2010, I am not going to hazard a guess. But I do know that our associates are doing everything they can, to not only manage through the turmoil, but to offset higher credit losses, with continued revenue generation across all product lines.

Results this quarter are a testament to the value and breadth of the franchise, the brand, the product mix, and the perseverance of our associates, who have been weathering this environment for the past seven quarters. The additions of Countrywide and Merrill Lynch have clearly been accretive to earnings, as these market sensitive businesses offer diversification, to offset the core consumer credit headwinds we are now facing. For the rest of the year, we look for charge-offs to continue to trend upward, I think it will be at a slower pace than we have experienced in the past few quarters.

Reserve build will also continue for the next couple quarters, though not at the level we experienced this quarter. We continue to position the balance sheet to ride out the recession, which you can see in our actions this quarter, by delevering the balance sheet, adding long-term debt, shrinking certain asset positions, and substantially adding to reserve levels. Many of these actions have increased our liquidity, approximately $174 billion at the end of March, as you can see in the higher cash and cash equivalent levels. While these actions are prudent, they are also very expensive in the short term, but are well worth the cost in the long term.

From an economic standpoint, we believe we can see weak but positive GDP growth by the fourth quarter this year. I have to say that even our internal economists are a little at odds, as to the timing with some seeing recovery earlier. However, we think it is prudent to run the Company under an expectation it will be later in the year, or early next year.

We believe unemployment levels won't peak until next year, at somewhere in the high-single digits. At this point we don't see unemployment meeting or exceeding 10%, but that will of course be impacted by how long the economy stays in recession. As most of you know, unemployment was a lagging indicator, and is only one of the factors we look at, along with home prices, bankruptcy expectations, and speculative degrade of default rates, to name a few.

But at this point I want to turn it over to Joe for some additional color and commentary.

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken. Before commenting on specific businesses, let me point out that with our acquisition of Merrill Lynch, we have moved our reporting from three to six primary segments that you can see on slide seven. Essentially what we did was divide the three previous segments into further detail, with some minor geography changes.

In order to better coordinate our consumers payments businesses, we consolidated our Card Products into Global Card Services, which means debit cards have moved from Deposits to Global Card Services. Investment banking is part of Global Banking, and Investment Banking Fees are allocated between Global Banking and Global Markets. Global Markets consists of sales and trading activities, and Fixed Income, Currencies, Commodities, and Equities.

Now let me quickly touch on some highlights in each of the businesses, that demonstrate how we are performing in the face of a contracting economy. Let me first say that impacting some of the segments this quarter is lower residual net interest income, which is the revenue allocated to the business segments, that is the result of our asset and liability management, and other corporate strategies. Corporate decisions such as delevering the balance sheet, or changing interest rate positioning, will impact the level of revenue that we allocate to the separate business segments.

Under the Deposit segment, which you can see on slide eight, earnings were $493 million in the quarter, down from $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter, due to lower net interest income and service charges. The lower net interest income was due to the lower residual income of approximately $800 million allocated to the business. We continue to add new customers on a net basis in DDA savings accounts, as well as online banking.

While sales are in-line with a year ago, we are seeing more account closures by both the bank and the customer, as customers face the pressure of the recessionary environment. Net new DDA accounts, for instance, were 218,000 in the first quarter, up 68% from the fourth quarter, but down by more than half from a year ago. This growth correlates with what we think is higher retail deposit market share, as Ken referenced earlier, when he talked about deposit levels, which we show on slide nine.

Global Card Services which is on slide 10, earnings were a negative $1.8 billion versus $26 million in the fourth quarter, due mainly to a $2.5 billion increase in credit costs. Average managed consumer credit card outstandings were down 2% from the fourth quarter. Pressure on consumers to moderate spending has driven a drop in retail purchase volume, a 9% seasonal drop from fourth quarter activity, and a 10% drop from the first quarter a year ago. Even though the economy has contracted, we continue to add new account. 800,000 new domestic retail and small business credit card accounts in the quarter, with credit lines of approximately $5.5 billion.

Turning to Home Loans & Insurance, and you can see this on slide 11, the business is going full bore, as evidenced by the fact that we have added or intend to add almost 5,000 new positions in addition to transferring over 700 associates from other parts of the bank, to fulfill the increased volume. Total revenue for the quarter was $5.2 billion, up 60% from fourth quarter levels. However, earnings were negative due to a high level of provision, but still improved versus the fourth quarter, as the higher revenue more than offset the $1.7 billion increase in provisions. We saw first mortgage fundings spike 91% over the fourth quarter. Approximately one-quarter of the fundings were for home purchases. Our market share remains strong at 20%, and we expect strong origination trends to continue for the balance of 2009.

Global Wealth Management, which is shown on slide 12, earned $510 million in the first quarter in-line with fourth quarter levels, and more than double the earnings versus a year ago. This business was also impacted by our overall balance sheet strategies, as net interest income absorbed over $250 million in lower allocated revenue. Also, as you know, it is a tough environment for asset managers, given the condition of global markets, and investors' response to market conditions.

Assets under management ended the quarter just under $700 billion, down on a pro forma basis from the end of the year, due to the drop in market valuation, and outflows in Columbia's cash fund. Both asset management and brokerage fees were down, due to lower market levels. Much has been written about the disruption of our financial advisers, and some have taken substantial bonuses to move elsewhere, but for the most part, we are keeping the FAs who are most productive. Over 95% of the high producing FAs have remained with Bank of America. Of the FAs who have left the organization, more than 1,200, or 55% were trainees.

Turning to Global Banking, which is shown on slide 13, it encompasses our commercial bank, corporate bank, and the investment bank. Here we earned $175 million in the quarter, down from $1 billion in the fourth quarter, due to higher provision, higher expense levels, and lower allocated deposit net interest income, that more than offset higher noninterest revenue. Credit spreads continue to widen, as facilities were repriced at higher market rates. And although commercial and corporate clients are being cautious given the economy, organic revenue growth across these client segments was 10% versus a year ago.

Average loans as reported for the quarter were flat with the fourth quarter. Average deposit levels were stable factoring in some seasonal activity, and are up 22% from a year ago. Now investment banking fees, and that would be across the corporation, exceeded $1 billion, and you see this on slide 14, which is a strong showing in a pretty weak environment.

As industry-wide deal volumes were down across the board for the quarter, with maybe the exception of debt capital markets, the combined Bank of America/Merrill Lynch franchise ranked number one in US equity capital markets, high yield, leverage and syndicated loans by volumes, and was a top-five merger and acquisitions advisor in the US and globally, based on announced deal volumes.

Global Markets on slide 15 earned $2.4 billion in the first quarter, versus a loss of $3.7 billion in the fourth quarter. Clearly the trading environment in the first quarter was much improved from the fourth quarter, and was characterized by high levels of volatility, and increased client driven activity, especially in more liquid products.

The strong business performance this quarter is a testimony to the combined sales and trading platform, and in particular the excellent talent we have retained from both legacy companies in these businesses. All core businesses posted record revenues reflecting the environment, greater volatility in liquid products, a rebound in credit, and the complimentary nature of bringing the two platforms together.

Let me add some additional comments around the performance, as well as some color around the positions at quarter end. As you can see on slide 16, sales and trading revenue increased to just short of $6 billion in the quarter, versus a negative $5.8 billion in the fourth quarter. This included absorbing legacy charges on legacy positions of $1.7 billion, the largest related to write-downs of mono-line guarantor counterparty receivables of about $1.2 billion, but also benefited from credit valuation adjustments.

Rates and currencies had a very strong quarter, $3.6 billion, or almost 60% of the total sales in trading, versus $181 million in the fourth quarter, as we have been able to capitalize on increased volatility in the interest rate markets, the flight to safety in US Treasuries and Agencies, and solid customer flows. The commodities business reflected strong first quarter revenue, which is typical for this business.

In Credit Products where we had $890 million, versus a negative $2.2 billion in the fourth quarter, debt issuance in capital markets rebounded from the depressed levels of 2008, as issuers took advantage of improved investor appetite and attractive rates, some of which may be an acceleration of refinancing. Credit trading had strong first quarter results driven by increased volatility and liquidity, offering better opportunities in client flow trading, as credit spread relationships normalized from the dislocations experienced in the fourth quarter 2008.

Now for the rest of the year we expect continued strength in origination, and more normalized trading results. Structured products had a loss in the quarter due to the additional marks, which I will address in a minute. However within structured products, mortgage products benefited this quarter from favorable market conditions in agency related securities, due to investor appetite for yield, and government efforts supporting the mortgage market. Equities also had a good quarter, $1.4 billion in revenue, versus a loss of $18 million in the fourth quarter. Despite the quarter being generally characterized by continued weakness in global equity markets, equity derivatives benefited from high levels of volatility. Cash equities were solid due primarily to the addition of the Merrill equity franchise.

Now looking at the non business as usual results, losses of 1.7 were certainly lower than the levels we saw in 2008. However, we continue to carry exposures at risk in the current economic environment although at reduced amounts and marked at current levels. Let me give you a quick update as detailed on slide 17.

Starting with leveraged lending, we ended the quarter with exposures of $8.3 billion, which we are carrying at $4.4 billion. The pre-disruption exposures are those not having current market terms, totaled $6.9 billion, which obviously is included in that $8.3 billion, and are carried at $3.1 billion, $0.45 on the dollar. During the quarter we wrote down an additional $98 million, net of hedging results. Looking back in order to keep perspective, Bank of America's total leveraged exposure was over $32 billion, while Merrill's was over $52 billion in 2007.

On the CMBS side we ended the quarter at $7.3 billion. Approximately $5.5 billion relates to acquisition-related large floating rate debt, carried at $0.75 on the dollar. The $7.3 billion excludes approximately $4 billion of senior positions that we transferred through the accrual book, in connection with the merger, and in recognition of the fact that we will be holding these positions.

The Floating rate CMBS market remains relatively closed to issuance at this time. Charges during the quarter totaled $174 million, and related predominantly to this floating rate debt. We also recorded $150 million of losses associated with equity investments we made in acquisition-related financing transactions.

On slide 18 and in the supplemental package, you can see our CDO related exposure, along with the changes during the quarter, where we recorded losses of $525 million. The losses were comprised of $192 million in super senior CDO write-downs, a charge of $210 million to reflect counterparty risk, associated with our positions and hedges, and an additional write-down of $123 million, mainly on positions retained from CDO liquidations.

At the end of March, our unhedged subprime super senior related exposure dropped to $1.4 billion, while bonds retained from liquidations were $1.8 billion. These positions are carried at a combined $0.25 on the dollar, Now the $1.95 billion on non-subprime super senior unhedged exposure is carried at $0.65 on the dollar. The carrying value of the super senior CDO hedged exposure for subprime and non-subprime of $1.3 billion and $606 million, reflect values of $0.19 and $0.85 respectively.

Regarding the counterparties on the associated insurance wraps, $5.6 billion is with monoline financial guarantors. We are carrying a 60% reserve, against our $4.2 billion receivables related to these wraps. Now in addition to the monoline financial guarantor exposure related to the super senior CDOs, we have got $55.9 billion of notional exposure that predominantly hedges corporate CLO and CDO exposure related to legacy Bank of America correlation trading books, but also covers CMBS, RMBS, and other ABS cash and synthetic exposures.

$14.7 billion of the $55.9 billion is carried as a receivable, and we are carrying a reserve of just over 40% on that receivable. Charges to increase this reserve totaled $960 million during the first quarter. Finally, we had additional negative marks associated with auction rate securities of $73 million. Going forward I probably won't spend as much time on these exposures, but felt it was important this time given the merger.

Not included in the six business segments is equity investment income of $1.3 billion in the first quarter. As Ken said earlier, we sold some of our investment in China Construction Bank, and booked a pretax gain of $1.9 billion. Now in addition, we had negative marks and impairments of approximately $900 million on various investments, including global principal investing.

Now let me switch to credit quality which is starts on slide 19. As Ken referenced, credit quality deteriorated further during the quarter, as the economy continued to weaken. Consumers experienced increased stress from higher unemployment and underemployment levels, as well as further declines in home prices, leading to higher losses in almost all consumer portfolios. While we are seeing an improvement in early stage delinquencies in many consumer products, we are largely attributing this to seasonal factors, until we see more sustained improvement.

These factors along with further pull-backs in spending by consumers and businesses, and continued turmoil in the financial markets, also negatively impacted the commercial portfolios. Consequently the first quarter provision of $13.4 billion exceeded net charge-offs, with the addition of $6.4 billion to the reserve, versus an addition of $3 billion in the fourth quarter, as we fortified our balance sheet to absorb expected impacts going forward.

Now reflective of continued economic stress on the consumer, reserves were added for most consumer related products, most notably consumer real estate, credit card, and consumer lending. The reserve addition also includes approximately $850 million associated with a reduction in expected principal cash flows on the Countrywide-impaired portfolio, driven by continued deterioration in the economy, and the home price outlook.

On the commercial side, we added approximately $1.2 billion to the reserves for small business and broadbased deterioration in the commercial real estate and domestic portfolios. Our allowance for loan losses now stands at $29 billion, or 3% of our loan and lease portfolio. Our reserve for unfunded commitments now stands at $1.4 billion, bringing total reserves to $30.4 billion.

On a held basis net charge-offs in the quarter increased 49 basis points from the fourth quarter levels to 2.85% of the portfolio, or $6.9 billion. On a managed basis overall consolidated net losses in the quarter increased 56 basis points to 3.4% of the managed loan portfolio, or $9.1 billion. Net losses in the consumer portfolios were 4.26% versus 3.46% in the fourth quarter, and credit card represents almost half of total consumer losses.

As you can see on slide 20, managed Consumer Credit Card net losses as a percentage of the portfolio, increased to 8.62% from 7.16% in the fourth quarter. 30-day delinquencies in Consumer Credit Card increased 117 basis points to 7.85%. US credit card delinquencies continued to increase across all states, but more significantly in California and Florida.

Early stage delinquencies have shown improvement over recent trends, but as I said earlier we are attributing this to seasonality. With unemployment levels projected to go higher, we would expect the Consumer Credit Card net loss ratio to increase as well, as I said last quarter, exceed unemployment levels by at least 100 basis points, and be further impacted by decreasing loan levels.

Credit quality in our consumer real estate business continued to deteriorate in the first quarter, as shown on slide 21. Our home equity portfolio continued to be negatively impacted by rising unemployment, and centered in higher CLTV loans, particularly in the states that have experienced significant decreases in home prices. Our largest concentrations are in California and Florida, which make up 41% of quarter end balances, and 61% of home equity net charge-offs during the quarter.

Home equity net charge-offs increased to $1.7 billion, or 4.3%, up 138 basis points from the prior quarter. We did have some catch-up items in the first quarter that inflated the rate approximately 70 basis points, but having said that, we still expect loss rates to hover in the fours for a while. 30-day performing delinquencies were actually down seven basis points to 1.68%, and it is a positive sign, although we again are attributing the trend right now to seasonality. We continue to see increased utilization rates up 180 basis points to 54%, driven by additional line management, and net draws on home equity lines of credit.

Our ending home equity balance of $158 billion was up due to the addition of Merrill. That is about $5 billion. Nonperforming loans in home equity rose to 2.28% of the portfolio, from 1.75% in the prior quarter. Loans with a greater than 90% CLTV on a refreshed basis, currently represent 42% of loans, versus 37% in the fourth quarter. Reflecting my earlier comment on loss expectations in home equity, we increased reserves for this portfolio to 4.73% of ending balances, reflecting a continued elevated level of delinquencies, frequency of defaults, and loss severities.

Turning to residential mortgage, our portfolio showed an increase in losses of $785 million, or 120 basis points for the quarter. That would be 95 basis points net of our resi wrap protection. Excluding our community reinvestment act portfolio, and that totals about 7% of the residential book, but about 24% of the losses. losses would have been $597 million, or 98 basis points. If you combine that with the resi wrap, it would be 71 basis points, net of both of those.

We continue to see increased delinquencies in losses across our portfolio, and to no one's surprise, in those states most affected by housing problems, California and Florida, which combined comprised 43% of the balances, drove 59% of the net losses. Although period end loans are up due to Merrill Lynch, we have reduced the legacy Bank of America portfolio, through lower balance sheet retention of new originations, as well as sales and conversion of existing loans to securities, both of which further strengthen liquidity.

But this also has effect of bringing down the average loan balances, thereby negatively impacting the reported loss rate, and other credit metrics. Now we do expect to see continued deterioration, and anticipate additional reserve increases in this portfolio. We anticipate overall loss ratios to remain in excess of 100 basis points, which could potentially go higher, due to lower balance sheet retention of new originations.

On slide 22, we provide you details on our direct and indirect loans, which includes the auto portfolios and consumer lending. Switching to our commercial portfolios, and you can see this on slide 26, net charge-offs increased to $1.5 billion, or 168 basis points, up nine basis points from the fourth quarter. Almost all of the higher net charge-offs are driven by commercial real estate and small business. Losses in the remaining commercial portfolios actually declined from last quarter.

Net losses in small business, which are reported as commercial loan losses, increased $71 million to 13.47%, and are most pronounced in states experiencing severe housing pressure. As we have discussed before, many of the issues in small business relate to how we grew the portfolio over the last few years, which is now compounded by the current economic trends. Our current allowance for small business after adding to the reserves in the first quarter stands at just under 16.5% of the portfolio.

Excluding small business, commercial net charge-offs increased $73 million from the fourth quarter to $870 million, representing a charge-off ratio of 102 basis points. The increase was driven by commercial real estate. Within commercial real estate, net losses increased 20 basis points to 2.56%. Commercial real estate losses continue to be centered in homebuilders and land.

Reservable Criticized Utilized Exposure in our commercial book increased to 11.13% of the book, from 8.9% at the end of the year. The increase continued to be broadbased across industries, lines of business, and products. Nearly one-fourth of the increase was related to the addition of Merrill. Of the remainder, 27% was non-homebuilder commercial real estate, and 40% was commercial domestic, centered on consumer facing industries, like specialty retail and restaurants.

Commercial NPAs rose $2.9 billion to $9.7 billion. 13% of the increase was the addition of Merrill, while the remaining increase was centered in commercial real estate, still concentrated in homebuilders, but also some in retail and commercial land. Nearly 40% of the commercial NPAs relates to homebuilders.

Going forward we think we will see some leveling off of commercial real estate charge-offs, offset by growth in commercial domestic. Overall we would expect to see a continued uptick in charge-offs given the economy, but still within the range of expectations. As we did with all of the portfolios, additional allowance for loan losses were added in the first quarter, bringing our commercial coverage to 2.11% of loans.

Okay, let me get off credit quality, and say a couple things about net interest income. Here I am on slide 28. Compared to the fourth quarter on a managed and FTE basis, net interest income was down $95 million. Core dropped approximately $425 million, offset by $330 million of higher trading net interest income. Merrill Lynch added approximately $375 million to core net interest income, and $375 million to trading.

Excluding the addition of Merrill Lynch, managed core net interest income decreased approximately $800 million, and was due to essential three factors. First, two less days in the quarter, resulting in approximately $200 million less. Second, higher levels of long-term debt cost us approximately $200 million, as we continued to lengthen maturities. And finally, we continued to take steps to delever the balance sheet, which cost us $350 million this quarter.

While earlier delevering actions were designed to increase our liquidity, our current actions have more to do with the continued decline in mortgage rates, and the fact that prepayments would have eliminated gains in our mortgage backed securities portfolio. This quarter as you can see in the results, we sold approximately $51 billion of mortgage backed securities for gains of $1.5 billion. These actions also indicate that in the short term, we will probably wait to reinvest given the possibility that the forward curve may shift higher, and continue to position ourselves towards an asset sensitive balance sheet. What that means is that there could be some continued decline in net interest income.

The core net interest margin on a managed basis also decreased 39 basis points to 3.63%, due to lower margin, Merrill additions, and lower credit card balances. At this point I wouldn't expect a lot of movement in the core net interest margins in the near term. Prior to fourth quarter our risk position had been liability sensitive, where we benefit as rates decline, and are exposed as rates rise. This risk position has evolved over the last two quarters to become asset sensitive. Given the low level of rates, short-term funding products are unable to reprice much lower, while our discretionary portfolio is prepaying faster.

This has also been driven by a change in our balance sheet composition, including a reduction in our fixed rate assets, because of our discretionary portfolio reductions, and an increase in fixed rate funding, namely equity, and most of that due to preferred stock. In addition, Merrill Lynch added a mostly variable rate asset base, that is largely funded by sweep deposit accounts. As you can see from the bubble chart on slide 30, our interest rate risk position has become more asset sensitive when compared to year end, primarily due to agency MBS sales, and the addition of Merrill Lynch, net of the additional received fixed swap positions. Given how low rates are, we are comfortable with our current interest rate risk profile.

Now let me say a few things about capital, the and you can see this on slide 32. Tier 1 Capital at the end of March was 10.1%, up from 9.15% at the end of the year, due to the addition of Merrill Lynch, additional preferred, and quarterly earnings. This Tier 1 ratio is lower than the pro forma projection we estimated in January, due to the fact that we haven't finalized the insurance wrap with the Federal Reserve, and therefore the benefit is excluded from the 10.1%. It is estimated to add approximately 65 basis points.

Our tangible common equity ratio is 3.13%. As you have heard us say before, this is a pretty blunt calculation. For instance, adding back the OCI associated with higher quality MBS that we expect will pay off in full, and the restricted China Construction Bank shares, increased the tangible common ratio by approximately 37 basis points, giving you an adjusted TCE of about 3.5. Likewise, if you considered the excess cash and cash equivalent positions we are currently carrying, you would get another lift.

Our tax rate this quarter, excluding the FTE impact, was 21%, which is in the range we expect for the rest of the year, and is driven by the level and geographical mix of our pretax earnings. Going forward in 2009 and in-line with what Ken said, we have been fighting the downturn for almost seven quarters now, and expect to continue to fighting it for a few more quarters, until we see stabilization, and an eventual turn in economic growth. We have a strong balance sheet with a robust and conservative liquidity position, strong credit reserves, and a solid capital position.

As first quarter results demonstrated, we are engaged 100% in leveraging the strengths of the corporation, to be profitable on an EPS basis, and add to our capital levels. While we expect credit losses to trend higher in most of our businesses, we believe the level of our reserves and revenue generation over the next several quarters, will enable us to get through the periods, with minimal impact on capital levels.

As you know by now, both Merrill Lynch and Countrywide contributed positively to earnings this quarter. The Merrill Lynch integration effort, while difficult given the environment, is on track. As Ken said, cost saves benefited the quarter and for the most part are in-line with expectations. We completed the Merrill Lynch assessment phase of the transition in March, and they are now in to execution.

During the second quarter, we will focus on businesses that serve corporate and institutional clients. These lines of businesses will introduce new brands and logos for their combined organization, allowing them to interact with clients and customers as a united team. Likewise, at Countrywide we are rebranding our stores this month, so our customers will be looking at the Bank of America name across our entire mortgage operation. So while the next quarters will be challenging, we believe we can move Bank of America forward from a competitive standpoint, an operational standpoint, and an earnings standpoint.

With that let me open it up for questions, and I thank you for your attention.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions). We will take our first question from the site of Christopher Mutascio from Stifel Nicolaus, your line is open.

CHRISTOPHER MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning Ken and Joe, how are you?

KENNETH LEWIS: Good morning.

JOE PRICE: Good.

CHRISTOPHER MUTASCIO: Joe, I wanted to get a little more color on the commercial side of the loan book, I was taken back a little bit by how high the NPLs went this quarter on commercial real estate and C&I. Is this indication of we are now entering the second stage, if you will, of the credit cycle? We have all been worried about the consumer side, and still we are seeing some pressure there, but the commercial side is now full force, and if so, did the NPLs this quarter exceed your expectation, and therefore does it mean that the loss rates going forward could be higher than what you currently expect?

JOE PRICE: I think if you look at, as I said in our comments, there was some contribution from Merrill Lynch coming on, so kind of take that out, and that was about 13% of it I think. The rest was still centered in commercial real estate, and still centered in homebuilders, although some came from retail and land, so you are seeing some spread of that into other commercial components.

If you look at our Criticized, you can see some into the other domestic, or the increase that came from other domestic. So remember, part of this effort on Criticized and non-performing is to quickly identify, get these things into special workout groups, and be aggressive about that. So I wouldn't say they exceeded expectations as much as it is kind of the natural progression that you would see in credit management, coming in this weak environment.

CHRISTOPHER MUTASCIO: Just a follow-up, or an unrelated question, there has been some reports in the paper about maybe selling off some other business lines, and some in asset management. Any thought on that going forward? Are there other lines of business that you might be looking to sell or to monetize?

KENNETH LEWIS: This is Ken. You know we have got First Republic in the process as we speak. And we don't comment on any items before we put them up for sale, but any time you acquire a company the size of Merrill Lynch, you step back and you look across all your business lines, to make sure that you have got the ones that are strategically important, and then look very carefully at ones that you may or may not think that are, so that process is going on, but that is a natural process, given any large acquisition.

CHRISTOPHER MUTASCIO: If I could ask one final one, other than the $2.2 billion in the debt write-up of Merrill, were there any other fair market value adjustments that are noteworthy in the quarter?

JOE PRICE: You would have had your normal components of CVA in your derivative books, across Tom Montag's platform, or the Global Markets platforms, that would have had favorability in them this quarter also.

CHRISTOPHER MUTASCIO: Can you quantify that?

JOE PRICE: It is probably somewhere in the $1.5 billion number all-in, but on our spread side, here is the way to think about it.

CHRISTOPHER MUTASCIO: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley, your line is open.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. On page 16, you went through the sales and trading numbers, and then you indicated that going forward you think you can get to a more normalized level of trading. Clearly there has been a lot of volatility from write-downs, et cetera, and you have also had an increase it look like in the VAR in the quarter, but I am sure that is part due to Merrill. Could you just give us a sense as to how you are thinking the about managing the trading activities, and what kind of level of risk you are comfortable with?

JOE PRICE: I guess I would start by saying, you are correct this is a market driven business, and you start every day at zero, is the way to think about. In regards to the bias of our business, I think we saw very solid customer flows throughout the quarter. Those flows continue this quarter, and that would be the bias.

Having said that, the VAR will increase when you combine the two platforms, not only because of the calculation methodology, meaning that you have got a lot of volatility in the history, but because there are positions, whether they are market making inventory and proprietary, that will always be part of the business, but I would say you should think of Tom's bias, as being the customer flow business first, and everything else off the back of that.

BETSY GRASECK: And would you give 4Q '08 for Merrill, based on these categorizations on page 16 at some point?

JOE PRICE: I am looking at Kevin to jot that down, as we think about when we put the 10-Qs out, okay?

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then separately, there has been discussion of the PPIP, the bad assets held, those kind of programs. Is that anything you are considering for exposures that you have?

JOE PRICE: I guess at this point, it has not been finalized exactly what the process will be, so we have got to first see exactly what it is. I think any program that adds to price discovery, and adds to some pricing in the marketplace will be helpful.

At this point, our inclination would be to think about giving it a small trial run to see what it yields, and to see if the offers an additional avenue to Tom, to manage the businesses and assets, and see where we go from there. So right now it is still a lot to go, before we make any final determinations.

BETSY GRASECK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Michael Mayo from CLSA, your line is open.

MICHAEL MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hey, Joe. Just to follow-up on first, the commercial problem assets. Slide 26 of the presentation, Reservable Criticized Utilized exposure that went from $37 billion up to $49 billion. Are these Criticized lines out there that are getting drawn down by the customers, or what is that? Why is that going up so much, and what does that mean for future commercial losses?

JOE PRICE: First, actual draws or utilizations were flat to slightly down this quarter, Mike, so I think that a tad of that may be seasonal, but I think in general, you did not see any significant draw down across the board. You saw a little bit of the opposite. If you look at the increase that came, think of it as about, this is looking at about a $12 billion increase. Think of about 3 of it coming out of non homebuilder commercial real estate, about 3 of it coming out of the Merrill Lynch addition, and then the rest coming out of your consumer facing industries in domestic, and I referenced a few when we gave the comments, but that is kind of the make up of it.

I would saying again, generally this classification is where we highlight the credits that need special attention or need more attention on them, and focus on them, and we segregate them for work out. And so that is what you should read into it. The loss expectations as I commented earlier, we will see some uptick in losses around commercial domestic in this weak economy, but nothing outsized at this point, is kind of our view.

MICHAEL MAYO: Are you surprised at how good commercial loan losses are? Just the tradition commercial, 56 basis points of loans in the first quarter.

JOE PRICE: If you think of what we have tried to do over time, we tried to migrate a lot of the weaker structured credits in the commercial book into the markets business. We carry it on fair value option, hedge it there. So if you took something, for instance, like some of the names you have heard, the majority of what is in our accrual book is on secured, whereas some of the unsecured paper is carried in the fair value option, or on the trading side, and we pretty actively hedge it. I am not saying we haven't taken some charges over the last several quarters in that type of paper, but I think it is kind of what we decide to carry in the accrual book, probably has much to do with it. Obviously we feel pretty good about the underwriting there.

MICHAEL MAYO: Separately, on the consumer portfolio, you said seasonal factors several times, and showing some caution for the next couple quarters. Is that indicative of your portfolio, or simply how you expect the industry to perform?

JOE PRICE: I guess I would say I would expect to see some of that across the industry, and to the extent that we have a little more favorability in a few of those early state, maybe that is telling us something, but again we are kind of managing as if it isn't, until we see that on a sustained basis.

MICHAEL MAYO: And what are those seasonal factors?

JOE PRICE: Typical things. Take something like an auto portfolio. It is the way car buying happens throughout the year. Some of these are masked a little bit by the economy, but it is those typical early spring, early year, early spring kind of factors, that you generally see some reductions in delinquencies.

MICHAEL MAYO: And would the foreclosure moratorium be part of that at all, now that you can foreclose on homes again?

JOE PRICE: Well, realistically, not in this quarter. The foreclosure moratoriums, you probably saw a build-up in some of our later stage delinquencies, as things were not referred to foreclosure from those standpoints, but that probably worked later stage, not earlier stage, and probably worked against you versus for you.

MICHAEL MAYO: Alright. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from the site of Nancy Bush from NAB Research. Your line is open.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning. Couple of questions here. Could you just talk about the durability of the kind of gains, or kind of business that you are seeing at Countrywide going into the second quarter? I know you had big origination revenues. You did have, I think, a pretty good MSR adjustment gain. How do you see the second quarter shaping up?

JOE PRICE: Well, on the production side I think we are continuing, Barbara's team is continuing to see good inflows so I would expect that, quite frankly, to continue, for at least until you see some kind of significant change in rates, although as I pointed out in the comments, you are actually seeing a reasonable percent in purchased money, and so obviously that is helped by the first time homebuyer credit, and the level of rates, and all of those things. On that side we would anticipate continuing to see some pretty good results.

On the MSR side, Nancy remember that we wrote down our MSR values in the fourth quarter by almost $7 billion, offset by hedges here. You had a little bit of a reversion back up, and then hedge results were pretty good. The way I kind of think of it, as I look back and say, where do we have the ending MSR value, and I think we are around 83 basis points, when most of the people that are out there so far this quarter are somewhere in the 90s. So I feel pretty good that you are not going to get a surprise off of that, although it will be impacted by future rates and some of the administration's programs, so reasonably sustainable, but probably a little bit high this quarter.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Second question would be the tenor of the deposit businesses here, account openings, that sort of thing, how are those tracking?

JOE PRICE: New account openings are actually doing very well, we feel very good about that. We are seeing a little heavier closure both by, that we are affecting as well as consumers, and I attribute some of that to just kind of the general economic environment, but even on a net basis, Even from quarter to quarter we are up over, if you look back to the first quarter last year we are down slightly, but it wouldn't driven by the sales side as much as on the closure side. We feel pretty good about that, some of the closures are low balance, less profitable, but also where customers are electing to consolidate accounts to save fees, things of that nature.

NANCY BUSH: Just sort of the general tracking of deposit spreads?

JOE PRICE: I am sorry, Nancy?

NANCY BUSH: Deposit spreads. Have you kind of hit the wall here, in how far you can lower deposit costs?

JOE PRICE: I think reasonably speaking, yes. It doesn't mean there is not room in certain markets and certain areas, but I think on an at-large basis you are correct.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: And we will go next to the site of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse, your line is open.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. Can you talk a little bit in greater detail, expand a little bit, on the prospects for the credit card business, you lost almost $3 billion, with the 4-and-change billion reserve addition. What is the prospect for the interplay, and what kind of steps have you taken in pricing, and how much of the increase in losses that you are likely to see, could that offset?

JOE PRICE: There is clearly unsecured consumer credit, mainly credit card, is where you feel the teeth of this slowdown. We don't necessarily view that as a term kind of issue, from a strategic view for how you run the credit card business, although given all of the other regulatory changes in the winds, we will have to be responsive to those, Moshe. The pricing, we have taken certain actions on pricing, and we have some in the works, although those are, think of those as risk based. Think of those as less introductory, low rates, things of those natures, so I don't have a pegged percentage right now, of how much of that increased loss those will offset, and I think that is why you saw us building.

You have seen us build reserves to take care of a lot of our future expected loss in that portfolio, but I don't know, Ken, if you have anything to add. I kind of look at it more as we are responsive to the changing environment, but we are also staying true to the core business.

KENNETH LEWIS: I wouldn't add anything to that. I agree.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Just a quick follow-up. As you see comments kind of originally obviously from the Fed and UDEP, but now out of the Administration and Congress, any thoughts about the prospects for the revenue side of the business?

KENNETH LEWIS: That is what, I guess Joe was referring to, going forward. There are things of that nature, as you know probably better than we, that are causing us to step back and look at the business, and see what should we do differently, to kind of relate to that new operating environment, but that is kind of in the process as we speak.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Thanks.

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Steven Wharton with JPMorgan, your line is open.

STEVEN WHARTON, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Hi guys, quick follow-up question. You mentioned that the ring fence had not been finalized, and that that would lead to a 65 basis point increase in the Tier 1 ratio at quarter end. Would that be a similar increase for the tangible common equity to risk weighted asset ratio, have you calculated what that impact would be?

JOE PRICE: I think that asset pool was carrying a 20% risk weighting, and that is what drives it, plus there is preferred issuance, but I don't have that handy right off, but it would have a rink weighted asset impact there.

STEVEN WHARTON: Okay. And is there a reason why it is taking so long to get it finalized, and will this be changed, or impeded at all by the stress tests?

JOE PRICE: I guess I would say it probably had something to do with the stress test, in that the Federal Reserve guys have been relatively busy this past quarter, but no greater linkage than that, to my knowledge. I would look for us to try to address it in the second quarter.

STEVEN WHARTON: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question from the site of Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney Advisory Group. Your line is open.

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, MEREDITH WHITNEY ADVISORY: Good morning. I wanted to ask a question related to this release versus last release, and the concentration issue, in terms of mortgage loans, and credit card loans and losses. So it looks like the losses are spreading out through the rest of the county, as opposed to just concentrated from California and Florida. The spread factor is an increasing factor, or in fact do you see Florida, California improving? So what I am looking for is more color regionally, and then also, if you are seeing any type of either stabilization, or in fact another leg down with subprime from California and Florida, given the fact that it looks like another wave of contraction has been taken out of the system, or liquidity has been taken out of the system, with the shuttering of HSBC, with so many finally closing their subprime books.

JOE PRICE: I guess on a regional basis I would say, and look Meredith, it is too early to call stability probably, in this cycle, but I would say California feels a little bit better. You are seeing signs of life in terms of certain markets, although they are clearly still MSAs that are severely under pressure. So there I feel a little better.

I think Florida we will continue to see some pretty hard down draft, and that one I wouldn't point to any particular points of light at this time. I think on a broader basis, your thought about this economic weakness is spreading much broader around the country is valid, and we are seeing the impact, although I would say both because of the size of those particular particular areas, as well as the size of the portfolio, our concentrations, we are still focused principally on those types of areas.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. So nothing further in terms of weak spots regionally, hot spots regionally, or exposures that you are worried about?

JOE PRICE: Like I said, more of a broader spread as opposed to real hot spots beyond that, but I would probably still put Florida at the top of our list of focus.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. And then would you update from last quarter your unemployment, and peak to trough home price assumptions?

JOE PRICE: As Ken said in his comments, at this point we don't see unemployment peaking into double digits. We still see it in the high-single digits, is the way I would characterize that. And likewise on his comments about GDP, from an [HPA] standpoint, I would say we are pretty close to Blue Chip consensus. Think of it as still in that mid-30s peak to trough, think of it as having been through almost 30% of that, so quite a ways there, although different regions will act very differently in that.

When you think about our reserving policies, remember we reserve kind of on an incurred loss, so when I give you loss projections, or give you thoughts about where basis points of loss might be, that tends to incorporate our view on the home price outlook, moreso than the exact reserve at the point of time.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Jason Goldberg with Barclays Capital, your line is open.

JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Good morning. Ken, during the course of the quarter, in the press we have seen you comment several times about your adequacy of capital levels. Can you discuss that in terms of do you feel enough capital, particularly in light of this stress test, the quality of the capital, there is a lot of talk about preferred to common conversions, et cetera.

KENNETH LEWIS: Well, first of all, with regard to needing additional capital, we absolutely don't think we need additional capital. With regard to the second part of the conversion, we think we are fine but it is now out of our hands into others. So from all of the ways we have looked at it we think we are fine, but again, this is in the hands of the regulators at the moment.

JASON GOLDBERG: Can you comment in terms of where you think you are with respect to the stress test, or kind of what your views were in terms of what you submitted?

KENNETH LEWIS: No, I think we have said before that we have submitted the information, and that is where we are. It is now in their hands.

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. Then secondly, appreciate the outlook on charge-offs, and thoughts around credit quality. In terms of the 6.4 billion addition to the reserve, obviously a big number, I guess how do you think kind of the taste of reserve builds will progress as the year goes on?

KENNETH LEWIS: You are right, that is an extraordinary reserve build, and I think as we look at a gain from CCB, or whatever, you have got to look at in the context of reserve build that big, at closely to the height of the recession. So I think we will have to put these things in context. But we would expect further reserve build, but not of that magnitude going forward, Jason.

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our final question will be a follow-up from Christopher Mustacio from Stifel Nicolaus, your line is open.

CHRISTOPHER MUTASCIO: Joe, I just wanted to clarify my first question, when I talked about the fair value adjustments in the quarter could be another gain of 1.5 billion, is that separate and aside from the investment security gains of 1.5 billion?

JOE PRICE: Yes, that would be component of counterparty risk valuation adjustment embedded in Global Markets.

CHRISTOPHER MUTASCIO: Okay, so the large kind of gains in the quarter were the China Construction Bank, the investment security gains, the Merrill debt, and the fair value. Then offset to that would be the merger related expenses? Did you also mention you had some security losses in the quarter, and can you tell me what they were?

JOE PRICE: Equity losses, if you go back in our comments, you can see that when we talked about principal investing, there is somewhere in the 900 million range, but also we have got kind of ongoing business as usual charges embedded in Global Markets too, so what we tried to spell out for you, was the stuff that we viewed as more unusual.

KENNETH LEWIS: Don't forget, Chris, that was the higher than usual was that $1.7 billion that Joe had mentioned. That would be, we would view as kind of, not business as usual.

CHRISTOPHER MUTASCIO: That is fair. I appreciate it.

KENNETH LEWIS: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: And this concludes today's teleconference. Have a great day. You may disconnect at any time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090504e54k000jh
  


 HD
 Q4  2008  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,457 words
   PD
16 January 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to today's quarterly earnings announcement teleconference. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). We'll take questions in turn following the presentation. Please note this call may be recorded. It's now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt, Bank of America Investor Relations. Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. With that, let me turn it over to Ken Lewis.

KEN LEWIS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PRESIDENT, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. I don't need to tell you what extraordinary times we're experiencing. The economy and subsequently the credit markets literally hit a wall starting in September and culminating late in December, with the greatest impact of my almost 40 years in banking. As you have seen in earnings reports so far, nobody operating in the capital markets or lending to the consumer has been immune.

While 2008 was a very disappointing year, we still made a $4 billion profit, even as we experienced more than $10 billion in capital market losses and $27 billion in credit costs. We suffered as the economy slowed materially, as we were long credit risk in our core activities of commercial and consumer lending, as well as in our capital markets businesses. So the question on my mind and your minds is what are we doing about it? We managed our risk position down during 2008, reducing wherever we could the relevant positions in every area. Due to liquidity, we could not get that risk down far enough. We continue to rework our credit risk appetite in consumer. We've instituted LTV, debt to income ratios, and other restrictions which are more prudent in light of the times we are facing. This of course raises concerns with legislators and other consistencies that we may be pulling back on credit when consumers, small businesses and commercial customers need it most. There is no doubt our overall appetite on credit risk is greatly reduced. Given the [rate loss] and provisions here and throughout the industry, how could it be otherwise.

Nonetheless, as you will see in a few minutes, even while we seek to reduce risk, we continue to offer loans and credit to individuals, small businesses and corporate customers. We originated $115 billion in new credits during the fourth quarter alone. In our card Company, we have revisited and revised our unsecured underwriting terms and our card terms, focusing on the programs which will produce better charge-off results. In our commercial areas we continue to aggressively work on credit book to reduce our exposures. During the last two years, we have purchased sizable credit exposures in our acquisitions of Countrywide and LaSalle which have added to our credit positions, but we continue to restructure these operations and work to reduce risk levels. We've been working on the integration plans for Merrill since September and are now carrying through those plans.

So where does that leave us? The core businesses at Bank of America continue to operate quite well. We continue to grow our franchise, focusing on customers and associates. We have had healthy growth in checking accounts and deposits. Customers continue to seek us out as a Company of strength. Metrics on customer favorability, brand awareness, customer satisfaction and purchase consideration all improved last year. And we continue to be a leader in helping to find solutions for the credit crisis. We are proud of this record. I think it's important for investors to understand that we do this because it's good business. The recession and credit crisis will end some day, and people will remember that our Company was there for them in hard times. That will be an essential element in our opportunity to return to the kind of profitability all of us want out of our Company.

With that backdrop, I'll discuss fourth quarter earnings, focusing mainly on the highlights across the Company with some specific comments on individual businesses. Then Joe will go into more detail on certain issues including the actions we announced today, capital markets, credit quality, net interest income and Merrill Lynch. Finally, we'll touch on our thoughts looking into 2009 and discuss some of the near term trends that will impact earnings.

On January 1st, we completed the purchase of Merrill Lynch, establishing a company unrivaled in its breadth of financial services and global reach. This merger reinforces Bank of America's position as a leading global financial institution. The merger creates in our opinion the most attractive US consumer banking franchise with broad earnings, diversification, and an attractive growing deposit base. One of the largest wealth management businesses in the world with approximately 20,000 financial advisors and more than $2 trillion in client assets; a world leader in the global markets and corporate investment banking businesses, particularly in the areas of lending, debt and equity underwriting, trading, liquidity, payments management, research, and merger and acquisition advice. And unparalleled in the number of commercial clients we touch through business lending and treasury services. Longer term, the combination should be an earnings powerhouse with leading market share in almost all of its businesses.

We are happy that John Thain has assumed a major role at Bank of America. John is in charge of global corporate investment banking as well as global wealth and investment management, both of which will incorporate most of Merrill's businesses.

Since most of you are focused on the short-term, let's turn to that. Last quarter we said that market turbulence, economic uncertainty, and rising unemployment would take its toll on quarterly earnings, and that has certainly been the result for the fourth quarter, both at Bank of America and particularly at Merrill Lynch. The United States is currently in a severe recession, affecting all sectors of the economy. Congress' passage of the financial stabilization plan, as well as other programs put in place, are starting to stabilize credit markets and promote liquidity, but at a pace slower than any of us would like. We believe it will take time before substantial benefits are seen in the health of the consumer and the impact on GDP growth. Consequently, we think the prudent decision is to take our dividend to $0.01 rather than to wait and see how earnings will evolve in 2009. This reduction will preserve approximately $2 billion in quarterly dividends that would have been paid out.

You saw in the release that Merrill Lynch experienced a fourth quarter loss of $15.5 billion that Joe will talk about in a moment. That loss materialized late in the quarter in December and presented us with a decision. We went to our regulators and told them that we would not -- that we could not close the deal without their assistance. As a result, we have agreed to the issuance of $20 billion in Tier 1 qualifying TARP preferred, as well as the issuance of an additional preferred of $4 billion in exchange for an asset guarantee that is essentially insurance protection on approval of capital markets related assets. We believe those actions were in the best interest of Bank of America and the financial system by limiting significant additional downside risk. These actions also allow us to turn our attention to consolidating and recognizing the long-term strategic benefits of the two companies.

Turning to earnings, Bank of America in the fourth quarter reported a loss of $1.8 billion or $2.4 billion after preferred dividends or $0.48 per diluted share. However, for the entire year, we did remain profitable, earning $4 billion or $2.6 billion after preferred dividends. As we experienced in the third quarter, earnings in the fourth quarter were seriously impacted by the headwinds of continued high credit costs, severe market turbulence and losses related to one-time events. Although it's difficult to focus on what is going right at this time, I do think it's imperative to understand that most of our main businesses remain profitable in the fourth quarter. Global consumer and small business banking, earnings of $835 million, global wealth and investment management, earnings of $511 million. And within global corporate investment banking, business lending made $301 million, and treasury services made $756 million.

While these earnings and these businesses in some cases are substantially lower than earnings in normal times, they're still profitable, even with the significant increases in credit costs, lower customer activity and other market headwinds. An additional positive is that our retail businesses are experiencing a significant growth in deposits even as we operate in a low interest rate environment.

Average core retail deposits grew almost $12 billion, or 2%, including the expected runoff in deposits of Countrywide. If you exclude the impact of Countrywide, retail deposits grew just short of $19 billion or 3.5%, which we believe is a multiple of the overall market and was done while we maintained pricing discipline. As we experienced during the MBNA integration, approximately $7 billion of deposits left Countrywide after initiating more rational pricing. The combination of deposit growth and anticipated stabilization of the markets should have a positive impact in 2009.

However, more than offsetting deposits this quarter were several events related to the market turbulence. These events included losses associated with CDO related exposure, auction rate securities and legacy trading books, write-downs in leveraged finance, CMBS and private equity, additional support of the Columbia cash funds and a challenging trading environment that impacted our trading results.

In addition, the economy weakening in the third quarter is evidenced by rising unemployment, bankruptcies and continuing home price declines. This weakening drove additional credit deterioration across our loan portfolio, causing us to add substantially to our allowance for loan losses. Total revenue for the fourth quarter was approximately $16 billion on an FTE basis, down approximately $4 billion or 20% from the third quarter. Net interest income rose 12% from the third quarter while non-interest income decreased 68%. Driving much of the decrease in non-interest income was this impact of continuing market disruption and trading account profits, equity investment income and other income.

Non-interest expense decreased 6% from the third quarter, driven by lower personnel costs, primarily incentive compensation. Provision expense of $8.5 billion increased by $2.1 billion from the third quarter. Net charge-offs rose $1.2 billion to $5.5 billion. The increase in reserves of approximately $3 billion brings the allowance for loan losses -- loan and lease losses to $23.1 billion, or 2.5% of our loan and lease portfolio.

Earnings in each of our businesses were significantly impacted by all the factors I just have detailed. Let me spend a few minutes discussing each of those businesses. Global consumer and small business banking earned $835 million, down $504 million from the third quarter as stable revenue levels, lower expenses and lower taxes partially offset an increase in provision expense of $1.1 billion. The retail deposit story remains very positive, as I mentioned. Although the pace of growth is down from levels a year ago, we continue to generate net new checking and saving accounts. For the second year in a row, we grew net new checking accounts by more than 2 million.

The recent drop in interest rates is driving a significant increase in mortgage applications, mainly re-fis, which is providing a very good start, a very good start to production levels for 2009. Global wealth and investment management earned $511 million in the fourth quarter, which is actually up from the third quarter and from the fourth quarter a year ago. Driving the comparison from last quarter was the fact that our support of the Columbia cash funds, $226 million, was less than the support in the third quarter.

Global corporate investment banking lost $2.4 billion in the quarter, as positive earnings and business lending, which were $301 million, and treasury services, $656 million, were offset by the market results in CMAS. Treasury services actually had a pretty good year with earnings this quarter up significantly from the third quarter. For the full year, they earned $2.7 billion, benefiting from core deposit growth and the flight to quality. Business lending produced linked quarter average commercial loan growth of $10 billion or 3% with revenue growth of 15%. CMAS lost $3.6 billion which Joe will address in a minute. Not included in the three business segments is equity investment income with a negative $387 million. These results were driven by minimal cash gains offset by lower valuations and impairments.

Now, before I turn it over to Joe, let me make a couple of comments about the current environment, some of which references my earlier comments. As I said, the economy is experiencing a severe recession. Receding home prices, rising unemployment and bankruptcies make it difficult to predict the timing of an economic rebound. We believe the economy will continue to be a challenge throughout 2009, with some potential early signs of stabilization during the second half of the year. Currently, employment weakness is expected to continue through a good part of 2009, as it lags the turn in GDP with unemployment rising in excess of 8%. Credit quality will continue to be an issue over the next few quarters, with provision and charge-offs remaining at elevated levels and perhaps not improving until the latter half of 2009.

Our Tier 1 capital ratio is estimated to be 9.15% at year-end, with a tangible common ratio of approximately 2.83%. As a point of reference, if you consider the OCI associated with higher quality MBS that we expect will pay off in full, and the restricted CCB shares, that would add more than 40 basis points to the ratio or 3.27%. My point being that this ratio, while important, is impacted by certain factors that don't really influence how we run the business. Joe will discuss what our pro forma ratios will look like, given our actions so far this year.

Given our economic outlook, we still believe most of our core businesses can produce positive earnings for 2009, assuming a continued tight grip on expense levels across the Company. We expect these earnings will also be accretive to capital in 2009. Remember, we sold some of our CCB investment in early January, which will result in approximate pretax gain of $2 billion in the first quarter. Most importantly, we remain committed to serving our customers and clients while driving profitability during these tougher times.

I know I'm repeating myself here, but these times continue to be increasingly difficult on all of us, including our shareholders, our associates and our customers. With the expanded investment in our Company by the Federal Government, we intend to play a major role in restoring the economy of the United States to a healthy rate of growth. We will do this by providing credit to consumers, small and large businesses, and state and local governments.

I have recently created a senior management team to oversee the Bank of America credit initiative, which will meet weekly to review lending levels in each of the categories that I mentioned. This team will report monthly to the public on lending activity. This reporting will be in addition to any reports requested by our regulators, the Treasury or Congress. Going forward, the role of banks must be to fuel the economy with credit, while abiding by the inescapable transparency and accountability inherent in the use of public money for any purpose.

Bank of America acknowledges the responsibilities of the Company in the use of public funds, and stands ready to play the role as the leading bank to help reverse the current economic recession and restore America as the world's leader in business innovation and progress. Our acquisitions of both Countrywide and Merrill Lynch were directed at strengthening the franchise, but also contributed to marketplace stability, and we remain a partner for our customers and clients, critically providing credit, helping them restructure their balance sheets, and giving them advice on how to best navigate their individual financial situations.

Most of you I think are well aware of our home loan modification program that is projected to modify over $100 billion in mortgages and over three years keep up to 630,000 borrowers in their home. We have 6,000 associates in our home retention division working with borrowers. During 2008, the home retention division completed over 300,000 workouts. We are working out two troubled loans for every one on which we foreclose.

Bank of America last year provided more than $150 billion toward lending, investing and grant dollars to America's small businesses and communities and to support lower and moderate income individuals and communities. Bank of America's $1.5 trillion commitment in 10 years is unparalleled in the business. Business lending remains strong, and we have continued making loans to states and municipalities in a time of extraordinary uncertainty. Our team is doing everything they can to operate as efficiently as possible, and to build the earnings power of the franchise so when conditions improve, you will see the benefits.

Now, with that I'll turn it over to Joe to expand a bit on the quarter as well as on some of the points that I've referenced.

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken. As Ken mentioned, we entered into several agreements with the various government agencies in light of Merrill Lynch's fourth quarter loss. These actions will replenish capital and provide protection, essentially insurance against significant downside risk on a pool of $118 billion in capital markets related exposures. Now, in doing this, we've insulated in large part future significant losses from the asset classes that drove Merrill Lynch's loss. This wrapped pool includes assets that when combined with other losses, where exposure no longer exists, represents some two-thirds of Merrill Lynch's fourth quarter loss. In doing so, we expanded the coverage to include substantially similar exposures on the Bank of America platform as these assets will be managed together in the ongoing Company. From the standpoint of the Bank of America capital markets loss in the fourth quarter, the pool includes assets that drove about the same percentage of our losses.

Generally speaking, the wrap covers domestic, predisruption or legacy leverage loans, and commercial real estate loans, those that were largely acquisition related facilities originally intended to be securitized, CDOs, financial guarantor counterparty exposure, certain trading counterparty exposure and certain investment securities. The terms of the agreement are that in exchange for us issuing preferred stock of $4 billion which pays a dividend of 8%, and warrants, the combined government agencies will absorb 90% of the losses on this pool after an initial $10 billion first loss that we retained. We retain 10% of the losses in excess of the first loss position. Now, we'll continue to manage these assets in the ordinary course of business, and retain the income from the aggregate pool. There's some more details in our filings on the specific provisions. While the platforms still carry market and credit risk, by entering the agreement we have limited the downside on much of the capital markets' legacy cash positions, as well as selected counter parties in exchange for the first loss position in a premium. Assets included in the wrap will carry a 20% risk weighting for capital purposes.

Let me now turn to earnings and begin by elaborating a bit more on fourth quarter results before turning to credit quality, capital, and Merrill Lynch. Turning first to GCIB, and more specifically, capital markets and advisory services. As Ken mentioned, this was one of the most difficult capital markets environments in history, and the fourth quarter was particularly severe. Prices continued to decline across a broad spectrum of asset classes. Global deleveraging accelerated, volatility and illiquidity continued to disrupt equity and credit markets, and correlation trades experienced significant divergence, all of which made for an incredibly challenging backdrop in addition to normal fourth quarter seasonality. All this led to very disappointing results, a net loss of $3.6 billion in CMAS.

On a positive note, investment banking fees were up 30% from the third quarter to $618 million. Now, we would characterize our market disruption charges this quarter as approximately $4.6 billion. These charges continue to be centered in CDO related write-downs as well as a couple other areas.

Now, let me start with leveraged lending, where we ended the quarter with exposure of $3.6 billion, which is all funded, down $2.9 billion from September. $1.7 billion of the reduction was the transfer of bonds to the corporate investment portfolio where they will be carried as an investment. The remaining reduction was a combination of sales, write-downs and terminations. Legacy or predisruption exposure is down to $2.3 billion, and is carried as $0.67. During the quarter, we wrote down an additional $425 million versus $648 million in the first nine months of 2008, as valuations continued to erode due to spread widening.

On the CMBS side, we ended the year with $7.6 billion in exposure, down 7% from the third quarter, of which $6.9 billion is funded. As always, remind you approximately 80% is comprised of larger ticket floating rate debt, most of which was acquisition related. This floating rate debt was written down approximately $500 million. We also recorded $328 million of losses associated with equity investments we made in acquisition-related financing transactions. There were several other legacy books where we continued to record losses, including $740 million in structured credit trading, of which about $400 million was counterparty valuation losses. This book as well as our other credit products experienced losses as cash spreads gapped out disproportionately, and extreme dislocations in basis correlations occurred. We also lost $589 million on non-US high grade MBS as the severe spread movements were not limited to the US.

Now, finally, in the supplemental package you can see our CDO and subprime related exposure, along with the changes during the quarter where we recorded losses of $1.7 billion. The losses were largely comprised of approximately $848 million of super senior CDO write-downs, a charge of approximately $400 million to reflect the counterparty risk associated with our insured super senior positions, and additional write-downs of $423 million mainly on positions that we retained from CDO liquidations.

Now, at the end of December, our unhedged subprime super senior related exposure dropped to just below $1 billion, $980 million to be specific, while bonds retained from liquidations were about $2 billion. Unhedged super senior related exposure including the securities retained from liquidations now totaled $5.3 billion. Our remaining hedged exposure of $1.5 billion, which is all high grade, is carried at $0.41 on the dollar and approximately 71% of that, of the wrappers, are from monolines. This exposure is included on the schedules in the supplemental package along with the relevant information.

Now, before I move off these legacy exposures, let me say that the domestic CMBS and leveraged loans as well as the CDOs, both the hedged and unhedged, are now covered under the government wrap. As I told you last quarter, we agreed to offer to buy back auction rate securities that we sold to certain customers. During the fourth quarter we actually repurchased approximately $4.7 billion, bringing our total holdings to $7.6 billion. Valuation declines in the quarter cost us approximately $410 million, of which most was recorded in the GCIB unit. Our estimated remaining repurchase commitment was $675 million at year end.

Now, let me switch to credit quality. We began seeing a decidedly negative impact on our customers from the slowing economy, particularly the consumer, and these pressures accelerated in December. This is evident in spending patterns as well as credit performance. As a result, fourth quarter provision of $8.5 billion exceeded net charge-offs, resulting in the addition of approximately $3 billion to the reserve. Reflective of continued economic stress on the consumer, reserves were added for most consumer related products, most notably home equity, credit card and consumer lending. The reserve addition also includes $750 million associated with the reduction in expected principal cash flows on the Countrywide impaired portfolio, driven by continued deterioration in the economy, and the home price outlook. On the commercial side, we added approximately $460 million to the reserves for small business, broad based deterioration in the non-real estate commercial portfolios, as well as the home builder portfolio.

This commercial increase is reflective of the slowdown in consumer spending, continued global financial markets turmoil, and housing value declines. Our reserve now stands at $23.1 billion or 2.5% of our loan and lease portfolio. On a held basis, net chargeoffs in the quarter increased 52 basis points from the third quarter to 2.36% of the portfolio, or $5.5 billion. On a managed basis, total net losses in the quarter also increased 52 basis points to 2.84% of the managed loan portfolio, or about $7.5 billion.

Managed net losses in the consumer portfolios were 3.46% versus 2.89% in the third quarter. Managed consumer credit card net losses represent 54% of total consumer losses. Managed consumer credit card net losses as a percent of the portfolio increased to 7.16% from 6.4% in the third quarter. 30-day plus delinquencies and managed consumer credit card increased 79 basis points to 6.68%, while 90-day plus delinquencies increased 28 basis points to 3.16%.

Now, we've continued to see increased delinquencies across our card portfolio, even more so in the states most affected by housing problems. California and Florida make up a little less than a quarter of our domestic consumer card book, but represent about a third of the losses. Clearly, with unemployment levels projected to go beyond 8% in the US, we would expect the consumer credit card net loss ratio to increase as well, and probably exceed unemployment levels by at least 100 basis points and be further impacted by decreasing loan levels.

Credit quality in our consumer real estate business also continued to deteriorate from the third quarter. Our largest concentrations are in California and Florida, which combined, represents about 40% of the home equity portfolio and represented about 65% of the losses. Home equity net losses increased approximately $149 million to $1.1 billion, or 2.92%, versus 2.53% in the prior quarter. 30 plus performing delinquencies increased 47 basis points to 1.75%, while NPAs increased 41 basis points to 1.86%.

Now, we have seen HELOC utilization rates tick up about 200 basis points to 52% driven by additional draws and slower payments. Our ending home equity balance of $153 billion was up slightly during the quarter. New business and increased utilization net of paydowns contributed approximately $5.1 billion in growth which was partially offset by closed accounts and charge-offs. Now, as we said last quarter, with the increased economic and credit pressures, we continue to believe that the loss rate will cross the 4% mark in 2009.

Now, our residential mortgage portfolio showed an increase in net losses to $466 million, or 73 basis points for the quarter. That would be 62 basis points net of the insurance wrap that we have on that product. Excluding our community reinvestment act portfolio, and that portfolio totals 7% of the residential book, losses would have been $340 million or 57 basis points, so about 46 basis points net of both the CRA and the insurance wrap.

Now, we've continued to see increased delinquencies and losses across our portfolio, again, even more so in the states most affected by the housing problems. California and Florida, which combined comprise 42% of the balances, drove 63% of the net losses. Now, although approximately $119 billion or 48% of our residential mortgage portfolio carries the risk mitigation protection, it does not cover our CRA programs. $70 million of net losses this quarter were covered by insurance, which reduces the net losses to 62 basis points on the portfolio versus the reported 73 basis points.

Now, I should note that we continue to reduce whole loan balances through sales, or by converting them to securities as examples of many actions we're taking to fortify liquidity. This has the effect of bringing down the average loan balances, thereby negatively impacting the reported loss rates. However, having said that, we do see continued deterioration and worsening economic conditions could drive a loss rate in excess of 100 basis points net of our insurance.

Turning to our other consumer portfolios, the auto portfolio at the end of December was about $26 billion in loans. Net losses in the quarter were $155 million or an annualized 2.44% of the portfolio, up from 1.68% in the third quarter. Although a portion of this increase was due to seasonality in this business, reduced collateral values as well as economic stress on the consumer also contributed to the higher losses. Within card services, we have a consumer lending business that has about $28 billion, which is mostly comprised of unsecured consumer loans. Largely due to increased unemployment and increased bankruptcies, this portfolio is also experiencing rising delinquencies and losses.

Net credit losses were 10.37% in the fourth quarter, up 194 basis points over the third. Now, loss rates have also been impacted by tightening in underwriting criteria resulting in a significant slowdown in the new loan production. Like our other portfolios, California and Florida continue to have outsized delinquency and loss contributions in relation to the outstandings. During the quarter we increased reserves on this portfolio by about $450 million to a level of around 12.3% of ending loans.

Switching to our commercial portfolios, net charge-offs increased $399 million in the quarter, to $1.36 billion, or 159 basis points, up 46 basis points from the third quarter. The deterioration this quarter was broadly spread across various businesses, although on a semipositive note, small business had the smallest increase, i.e., about $35 million, we have seen in several quarters. Net losses in small business, which are reported as commercial loan losses, increased to 11.5%. If you exclude small business from commercial domestic, our total commercial loss rate is about 99 basis points. Further excluding commercial real estate, where losses have been concentrated in home builders, the loss rate is 65 basis points.

As we have discussed before, many of the issues in small business relate to the rapid growth of the portfolio over the past few years which is now compounded by the current economic trends. The continued increases are consistent with the seasoning of these vintages and while clearly too high, are generally in line with our forecast from last quarter. Reservable criticized utilized exposure in our commercial book increased to 8.9% of the book from 7.45% at the end of the third quarter. Now, the increase was scattered across industries, lines of businesses and products. Commercial NPAs rose $1.7 billion to $6.8 billion. Nearly 56% of the increase in commercial NPAs was in the commercial real estate business, spread across home builders, retail, and apartments.

Now, let me move off credit quality and discuss net interest income. Compared to the third quarter on a managed and fully tax equivalent basis, net interest income was up $1.5 billion, of which core, which excludes our trading related margin, represented $994 million. The increase in core NII was driven mainly by lower short end rates on market based funding and core deposit products. The core net interest margin on a managed basis increased 16 basis points over third quarter to 3.95%, due primarily to the improved rate environment. As you can see in our material, our interest rate positioning is now asset sensitive to parallel moves in rates, compared to our liability sensitive position at the end of September. The change in sensitivity is primarily due to the changes in the forward curve as well as the absolute low level of rates. Now, due to this low level of rates, some of our longer term assets are repricing faster while our shorter term liabilities have already or are unable to reprice much lower. Now, given how low rates are, an asset sensitive position makes sense as we're positioned to benefit as rates rise in the future. While we're asset sensitive to parallel moves in interest rates, we continue to benefit from curve steepening. As a heads up, we expect net interest income to drop in the first quarter for seasonal reasons, as well as the negative impact of lower interest rates on our asset repricing.

Now, let me switch and talk about fourth quarter results for Merrill Lynch. As Ken mentioned, Merrill Lynch's fourth quarter preliminary results total a $15.5 billion loss. In our supplemental material, we've included a preliminary P&L and balance sheet. Now, Merrill Lynch data we're providing today is preliminary, is a preliminary overview, as Merrill's ordinary and usual process for analyzing the numbers continues. Now, once the results are fully complete, Merrill Lynch & Company will file a Form 10-K for 2008, so there will be more information in that report for you. Now, before I take you through the details on the large items, let me say that the difficult capital markets environments, particularly the severe impact late in the fourth quarter, hit the Merrill Lynch platform very hard. As asset prices continued to decline across all the categories, volatility and illiquidity spread throughout the markets and the correlation trades were really hit hard. All this led to very disappointing results. However, starting off on a positive note, global wealth management continued to deliver solid results despite the environment, with global private client net revenues down only 10% sequentially and even less in the US advisory portion of the business, a testament to the quality of the franchise. Certain other businesses also performed relatively well, such as investment banking, down only 4% sequentially and commodities, which was up substantially on strength in trading gas and coal in Europe.

Now, in the fourth quarter, Merrill Lynch overall recorded negative revenues of $12.6 billion. So let me take you through the principal drivers of those losses and the related remaining exposures. Starting with the transitory leveraged lending exposures, charges totaled $1.9 billion during the quarter, driven by several credits under significant duress. Remaining exposure in that transitory book totaled $5.6 billion, carried on average at $0.42 on the dollar or $2.4 billion on a market value basis. The portfolio is comprised mainly of less liquid positions such as revolvers and bridge loans. Now, of this total market value, about $1 billion is domestic and covered under the wrap. Remaining commercial real estate exposure, excluding the First Republic portfolio is $9.7 billion. Commercial real estate losses were $1.1 billion, of which $475 million related to whole loan conduits. The remaining whole loan conduit exposure is $3.8 billion. It's currently carried at $0.72 on the dollar, of which about $2 billion is covered under the wrap. The remaining $600 million of losses were due to real estate related debt and equity investments involving smaller credits in EMEA and the Pac Rim. The remaining exposure of these investments was $5.7 billion at the end of the year.

The US super senior ABS CDO losses were $369 million this quarter, and remaining unhedged exposure was $800 million. It's carried at about $0.14 on the dollar. The hedged long exposure is just over $1 billion, and it's carried at about $0.20 on the dollar. Both of these are to be covered under the wrap. Merrill Lynch experienced a loss of approximately $300 million on the financial guarantors covering the US super senior ABS CDOs. The remaining receivable from guarantors on that portfolio is $1.5 billion, and this exposure is also covered under the wrap. Regarding credit default swaps with monoline financial guarantors, excluding those that I just mentioned covering the US ABS CDOs, total notional was $50 billion with a mark-to-market before any adjustment for counterparty risk of $12.8 billion. $7.8 billion after the counterparty risk adjustment.

Now, as part of Merrill Lynch's correlation trading and credit trading books, they've entered into various derivative contracts with monoline insurers to hedge risk in the portfolios. Of the notional amount of the insurance of about $50 billion, one half relates to CLO and various high grade basket trades, and the other half relates primarily to CMBS and RMBS on which the underlying collateral varies from AAA to BBB. To date, Merrill has taken credit valuation adjustments of approximately 39% on the receivable balance. Now, both the remaining receivable balance as well as the remaining net notional are covered under the wrap. CVA taken during the fourth quarter on these exposures totaled about $3 billion.

Merrill Lynch also recorded $1.2 billion in losses on their US banks investment portfolio during the quarter. This portfolio had a year end market value of $10.4 billion, with $9.3 billion of cumulative loss adjustments recorded in OCI, reducing their shareholders' equity at year end. As you know, OCI gets adjusted in purchase accounting so carrying or market value will be equal to our basis at acquisition. Of the remaining market value, 95% is covered under the wrap. Counterparty valuation costs on the derivatives book, other than the monolines that I've talked about just a minute ago, during the quarter were almost $2.5 billion. This cost included approximately $800 million due to the narrowing of Merrill Lynch spreads due to the merger announcement, which would normally provide an offset but obviously in this case went the same direction. There's about $17 billion of selected counterparty notional on derivatives, $3.2 billion of which is mark-to-market which is covered under the wrap that I've previously discussed.

Write-downs on private equity and principal investments totaled $1.7 billion, driven by valuation adjustments on private holdings and marks on the public holdings. Other write-downs included $2.3 billion in goodwill impairment related to the fixed income and investment banking businesses. Now, in addition to pressure on legacy exposures, the market dislocation and contagion caused many businesses to have very weak results, particularly credit, proprietary trading and principal investing. As I mentioned earlier, while large write-downs occurred in the fourth quarter, we've limited the significant downside risk in these asset classes under the wrap. Now, we'll provide more details on the Merrill Lynch exposures and what portion is covered under the wrap in future SEC filings.

And since we closed the acquisition of Merrill Lynch on January 1st, the results I just detailed are not reflected in our fourth quarter. Integration efforts continue to move ahead and we remain confident in the long-term prospects of the combined Company. So let me quickly cover some of the merger specifics. We issued approximately $1.4 billion Bank of America shares at an exchange rate of 0.8595 for each Merrill share. I'll give you some preliminary purchase accounting estimates but realize that they'll probably change somewhat as we're currently finalizing those. From an accounting standpoint, under the revised purchase accounting guidelines, we'll mark Merrill Lynch's balance sheet to fair value levels as of January 1st. As required under FAS 141R, the total purchase price for the transaction will be recorded for accounting purposes at the value as of the close, or $29.1 billion. That includes the $20.5 billion in common shares, and the $8.6 billion in preferred equity. Subtracting Merrill Lynch's estimated tangible book value adjusted for the impact of the preliminary purchase accounting of approximately $19.8 billion and $3.9 billion in identifiable intangibles net of tax results in goodwill of about $5.4 billion.

Other changes in purchase accounting adjustments from our prior disclosures include using the actual year-end number from Merrill Lynch's total shareholders' equity, which at $20.6 billion reflects the fourth quarter loss, and incorporating a write-down of Merrill Lynch's debt of $15.5 billion, reflecting fair value given Merrill Lynch's year end credit spread. As you can see, total assets at Merrill Lynch at the end of December before purchase accounting marks were $663 billion, loans held for investment net of the allowance were $58 billion, and deposits were $98 billion. Now, expect some shifting around of what's in the accrual book versus the market books as we move further down the path of consolidating operations and management. You can see from the material, our updated restructuring costs of $3 billion pretax or $2 billion after tax is consistent with our initial estimates. At this point, we expect to hit our targeted cost saves of $7 billion pretax, and it looks like we'll get more in 2009 than expected. We originally indicated 20% to 25%, but now it looks like we could be north of 35%. This will likewise accelerate our merger charges a little.

Now, under FAS 141R, the $2 billion of after tax restructuring charges will be recorded through the income statement as a restructuring expense through 2011. The restructuring charge for 2009 is estimated to be approximately half of the total, spread somewhat evenly over the four quarters. Given the size of the balance sheet, adding Merrill Lynch to Bank of America would reduce Bank of America's Tier 1 capital by approximately 45 basis points, 8.7% on a pro forma basis, which includes the $10 billion of preferred that funded January 9th, that was part of the initial TARP equity program. Adding the incremental preferred issuance we announced this morning, plus the risk weighted asset adjustment due to the asset wrap, pro forma Tier 1 would be approximately 10.67%. Estimated risk weighted assets from Merrill after purchase accounting adjustments are approximately $379 billion for your reference. Adjusting for the wrap, combined risk weighted assets dropped by around $70 billion. Now, as a reminder, we also strengthened Tier 1 somewhat two weeks ago with the sale of some of our investment in China Construction Bank, generating a pretax gain of approximately $2 billion.

Turning to tangible common as Ken mentioned earlier, we ended the quarter at 2.83%. Now on a pro forma basis including Merrill Lynch and the other actions that ratio would be 2.66%. And if you consider the same adjustments that Ken mentioned earlier related to higher quality debt securities and our restricted shares of CCB, you could add about another 30 basis points or so to the ratio so call it just under 3%. Now, we're clearly comfortable running the Company at this level of Tier 1, realizing that an excess over what's appropriate in more normal times is needed and the tangible ratio, while adequate, will be rebuilt through earnings given the dividend action we announced this morning. And while I'm not going to predict capital ratio levels at the end of March, we'll continue to be more efficient with the use of our balance sheet including the combined trading books of Bank of America and Merrill Lynch.

Now, from an earnings perspective, we believe Merrill Lynch on a GAAP basis will be dilutive to Bank of America's earnings over the next two years, due to what we believe will be below normal investment banking and trading environments. And while we've not formally guaranteed the debt of Merrill Lynch, we clearly view it as supporting a critical part of our ongoing operations.

Before turning it back to Ken, let me say a couple of things about liquidity. The Parent Company's liquidity remains strong with time to required funding at 23 months on a pro forma basis with Merrill Lynch. It's actually 37 months before Merrill Lynch at the end of the year. The additional actions today, meaning the TARP capital, will add an additional seven months to that for our Parent Company liquidity. Also during the fourth quarter we raised nearly $20 billion of debt under the TLGP, primarily at the holding Company level, to ensure robust and excess liquidity and prepare for the Merrill Lynch merger. Our primary bank, BANA, is running the highest levels of excess cash in the Company's history on a daily basis, and although somewhat inefficient from a margin perspective, it is prudent given the environment. The positive inflows remain strong, and customers clearly prefer to keep cash in safe and liquid form. This is one of the strongest aspects of our franchise and where we truly benefit from being the largest coast to coast financial institution.

With that, now let me turn it back to Ken.

KEN LEWIS: Thanks, Joe. Moving to 2009, let me reiterate that there is considerable uncertainty about the economic environment and the ongoing health of the consumer. Due to that uncertainty, we won't go into the detail we have provided in the past as far as our expectations for 2009. However, those banks with market presence and strong balance sheets can weather and even benefit from the situation and we do feel good about our relative position in our businesses versus the competition.

Making pro forma revenue comparisons between 2008 and 2009 is difficult, given the market disruption losses experienced by both companies in 2008. However, we believe core net interest income would benefit given a favorable rate environment. However, trading net interest income will drop given the targeted reduction in the trading books, and as was mentioned before, expect net interest income in the first quarter to be down due to seasonal impacts as well as lower pricing of assets, but then positive comparisons in each of the quarters thereafter. Non-interest income will obviously grow, if you assume some stabilization in the markets, but I will let you hazard a guess on the health of global markets in 2009.

One area we do have control over is non-interest expense. For 2009, we originally targeted approximately 20% of the $7 billion in cost saves from the Merrill integration and we now believe as Joe said, we can get closer to 35% or even north of 35%. Additional cost saves from Countrywide and LaSalle should also have a positive impact on expense levels. Consumer credit quality will continue as a headwind, due to what appears to be further deterioration in housing and unemployment levels, and their subsequent impact on consumer asset quality. Similarly, we would expect to see challenges in the consumer dependent sectors of our commercial portfolios. Given this scenario, for the next several quarters, we would expect net losses to be at or above levels we experienced in the fourth quarter. While provision is dependant on future credit losses, everything we are seeing currently points to no relief in provision for at least the next several quarters. Clearly, a real positive for us in 2009 would be for the trading environment to settle down. Under that scenario, we can manage through the tough credit environment, which unfortunately, is with us for the next few quarters. And with that, let me open it for questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions). We'll take our first question from the site of Matthew O'Connor with UBS. Your line is open.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning.

JOE PRICE: Good morning.

KEN LEWIS: Good morning, Matt.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: How should we think about all this non-common equity that you and other banks have? At the end of the day, when you think about the line of defense against losses, it's common equity, loan loss reserves and preprovision earnings. All these preferreds doesn't really address any of that. In fact, the $3 billion that you paid out per year in dividends reduces the common equity. So I can appreciate that it helps from a liquidity side which is already very strong at Bank of America but does it matter having 8.5% Tier 1 versus 10% Tier 1 when the common equity is still relatively low?

KEN LEWIS: Matt, as I made in the comments, obviously Tier 1 is a critical measure and it's one that we clearly manage by because it gives you the composition of the asset mix much more specific to our institution. Having said that, you've heard us say before, every ratio has its day in the sun, is critical at different points in the cycle and we clearly view the common equity ratio as something that needs to be focused on. It is affected as I mentioned before, and Ken mentioned by certain other attributes that go into OCI and all and while we feel very comfortable that it's adequate at the level it is, that's one of the areas that we have a focus on to build and that was as I mentioned before why the dividend reduction will help rebuild that.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: And obviously to rebuild the TCE, you can have organic earnings, you can shrink the balance sheet as you mentioned, capital raises as well on the common side. But can you talk about how meaningful some of the balance sheet reductions might be as we think about 2009? I can appreciate a lot of prepayment speeds are pretty low right now and it's tough to divest some of these assets but what are some of your expectations on how meaningful you can reduce the balance sheet?

KEN LEWIS: Before Joe says it, just look at what the pro forma that most thought in terms of what the balance sheet would look like and it's probably $300 million, $300 billion, excuse me, $300 billion less than what you would have thought it would have been, and so that gives you kind of an idea of what you can do in a fairly short period of time and so I'll turn it over to Joe after that.

JOE PRICE: I think, Matt, a lot of the securities businesses I think still have opportunity, sizable opportunity because traditionally those businesses weren't necessarily focused on for aggregate gross balance sheet level given the matched books and some of the natural risk offsets, so you kind of managed on a net risk basis and it allowed some of the balance sheet to get bigger. That was some of the areas that the team focused on coming into year end but it's clearly still got some opportunity and that doesn't really have a material impact on the business flow and the business activity. So we think there are areas clearly like that that will help us.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately, the Countrywide marks had been pretty aggressive at the time when the deal closed. Any update on how you're feeling with those marks at this point?

KEN LEWIS: Well, I don't know if you caught it. I referred to in the comments and Kevin's got it in the back of the presentation a package that kind of shows you the -- let's call it the impaired loan pool performance. We did update those marks. We kind of reforecasted cash flow and we added about $750 million of additional marks to the impaired loan portfolio and that was focused principally in the pay option ARM product which is the one that we have always kind of viewed as some of the biggest downside risk in it.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We can take our next question from the site of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC. Your line is open.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning.

KEN LEWIS: Good morning.

NANCY BUSH: Joe, could you just tell us, the $118 billion that's being back-stopped here, says it's, quote, primarily for Merrill Lynch. Can you just split out what's from Merrill Lynch and what's from legacy BAC?

JOE PRICE: Don't hold me to this exactly, Nancy but think of it as 75% Merrill Lynch legacy assets and about 25% of similar types of assets off the Bank of America platform.

NANCY BUSH: And I guess I'm -- I mean, is there something special about those or did you just decide to throw them in because of the risk factor or -- I'm trying to sort of separate out this TARP investment and what happened at BAC and what happened at legacy BAC to -- I mean, what happened at Merrill and what happened at legacy BAC to trigger this.

JOE PRICE: Let me give you a first response and then Ken may want to elaborate. We were going through the process, we looked at what were -- first of all, what drove the losses on the Merrill Lynch platform during the fourth quarter, what were the remaining risk assets, that was the focus of the process. There were certain assets that just fall out of the criteria for the wrap, based on the different agencies' criteria. We then said, you know, a lot of the -- we had similar assets on the Bank of America platform and since you operationally manage some of this stuff together, it would not necessarily make sense to have overlapping positions in the same credit name, and so we reached across and said what are the similar Bank of America capital markets assets, and that's kind of the process that we went through to divide what would be ring-fenced.

KEN LEWIS: Well said.

NANCY BUSH: Ken, question for you and I think everybody is trying to grapple with this this morning. What if anything was missed in due diligence of Merrill Lynch that brought us to this point? If you could just elaborate on your view of that.

KEN LEWIS: Yes, in a nutshell, much, much higher deterioration of the assets we had identified than we had expected, going into the fourth quarter. So our forecast of losses, Merrill Lynch's forecast of losses and, frankly, I would think most anybody in the capital markets business would have forecasted a lower loss rate than what we saw, so it wasn't an issue of not identifying the assets. It was that we did not expect the significant deterioration which happened in mid- to late December that we saw.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. And I guess the final question I would ask for you, Ken, would be, we know that these TARP investments are necessary right now to get us through this period. But, I'm sure that you don't like your Company being called a ward of the state. And much of the banking industry is coming to that. But for BAC, when do you anticipate that you will be able to get out from under all these government, quote, investments?

KEN LEWIS: Nancy, I wish I knew because I -- because then I would know what the economy was going to do over the next few years. But clearly, as soon as possible, as to kind of reinforce your point. But you can start -- if you just start looking at preprovision and normal capital markets, this Company will generate huge amounts of profit when we get a normal economic environment, not even a great one, just a normal one, and so it's almost directly correlated to how fast you think the economy will come back.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our final question from the site of Mike Mayo with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

KEN LEWIS: Good morning, Mike.

JOE PRICE: Good morning.

MIKE MAYO: What is pro forma tangible book value, I guess it's $11.44 at the end of the fourth quarter but including Merrill Lynch, what would that be?

KEN LEWIS: Mike, I've been thinking about ratios so much. Let me get Kevin to come back.

KEVIN STITT: I'll come back.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And in terms of -- just a follow-up to that last question, so were you able to walk away from the Merrill Lynch deal, I mean if it was so much worse as of mid-December, couldn't you say, hey, let's renegotiate or let's do something?

KEN LEWIS: Well, let me just kind of take you through that. It's a very legitimate question. As we saw the anticipated fourth quarter losses accelerating, we did evaluate our rights under the merger agreement and during that time we spoke to and were in close coordination with officials from both the Treasury and the Federal Reserve. The government was firmly of the view that terminating or delaying the closing of the transaction could lead to significant concerns and could result in serious systemic harm, and a repricing assuming it could be agreed would have a new stockholder vote both at Bank of America and at Merrill Lynch and therefore would have been delayed by at least a couple of months and that would have led to considerable uncertainty and could have well cost more than the repricing we would have saved. And I think in recognition of the position that Bank of America was in, both the treasury and the Federal Reserve gave us assurances in December that we should close the deal and that the government would provide the assistance we've been talking about. So particularly ringing -- putting a fence around some of the assets that we were most concerned about. And so in view of all of those considerations, and in view that strategically, Merrill Lynch remains a solid franchise, we just thought it was in the best interest of our Company and our stockholders, and the country, to move forward with the original terms and the timing.

MIKE MAYO: So what I think I hear is you're kind of helping out the country, doing a little bit of a favor, so why in turn is the Company put in some chains in terms of the executive compensation limits and it seems like the regulators got tougher on Bank of America as a whole, because you went out of your way to kind of make Merrill Lynch work. Or am I misreading something here?

KEN LEWIS: Well, I think you have to think about it in a broader perspective, that you can't -- that there are going to be issues with others, and there have been issues with others and we did think we were doing the right thing for the country, but at the same time, from the government's perspective, they've got to have some template and not have us be seen as played with favoritism.

KEVIN STITT: Hey, Mike. Kevin. Just before you leave, the tangible book value including the Merrill Lynch shares is about just under $10, call it $9.93 or something like that.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. So it goes down by about $1.50 or so?

KEVIN STITT: Right.

MIKE MAYO: And actually, when do you -- do you think you'll be building up book value next quarter, all things considered, or -- I guess the question is do your preprovision, pretax profits help offset the credit losses or how do you think about that?

KEN LEWIS: This is almost a facetious thing to say, but if I could annualize the first two weeks it would be building quite a bit. But it's only been two weeks and you wouldn't know. But yes, we would, but obviously we're subject to what happens in the economy.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Great. I know the Citigroup call is starting soon, so thank you.

KEN LEWIS: Thanks, Mike.

KEVIN STITT: Thanks, everyone.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's teleconference. Have a great day. You may disconnect at any time. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090123e51g000gq
  


 HD
 Q3  2008  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,524 words
   PD
6 October 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2008 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to today's program. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions). Please note this call will be recorded. I will be standing by if you should need any assistance. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Kevin Stitt. Go ahead please.

KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good afternoon. This is Kevin Stitt, Bank of America investor relations. Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial conditions and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.

   TD
These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. With that, let me turn it over to Ken Lewis.

KEN LEWIS, CHAIRMAN, CEO AND PRESIDENT, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good afternoon and thanks for joining our conference call on such short notice. We have several items to discuss today. To say the least, these are turbulent times for the banking industry with events unfolding on a daily basis that are breathtaking, both as to the speed of occurrence and unprecedented in the impact on both the markets and the economy.

But at the same time, the banking industry is evolving much as we thought it would a couple of years ago. With greater clarity than we had before, we are experiencing a consolidation in the industry that is producing less than a handful of large banks at the top, fewer banks in the middle and thousands of smaller banks at the bottom.

With the announced acquisition of Merrill Lynch, Bank of America will be one of just a few banks that early next year will hold collectively more than 30% of the deposits in the US along with extremely strong positions in commercial banking, investment banking and asset management. With our size, scale and strong market share, Bank of America's positioned to benefit as the economy stabilizes and starts to recover.

However, over the next several months and into 2009, we expect that continued market turbulence and economic uncertainty will produce less than normal earnings but also require that we be willing and able to provide liquidity and support to commercial and retail customers. That customer support in the near-term will benefit us greatly in the longer term.

Consequently, we think the prudent decision is to strengthen our capital position now rather than taking the risk of being exposed to any number of uncertainties in the US and global markets. Congress's passage of the financial plan as well as other programs put in place is a good start in stabilizing the credit markets and injecting liquidity into the system.

However, we believe it will take time before substantial benefits are seen in increased liquidity, reduced market volatility or improved investor sentiment. Therefore we believe it is in the best interest of the shareholders to get our Tier 1 capital ratio to our targeted goal of 8% and improve our other capital ratios.

In addition at least in the short-term, we believe it is wise to position our dividend to better match our reduced earnings performance. Accordingly, we're reducing the quarterly dividend by 50% to $0.32 a share and have announced that we intend to raise $10 billion of common stock in offering.

Today's actions will results in our Tier 1 ratio on a pro forma basis including Merrill Lynch to be around 8%, our target. Additional capital will ensure that we can handle the economics scenario we face, continue to be a source of liquidity to our customers and still take advantage of opportunities to grow our market share.

Given reported earnings for the third quarter and an economic outlook that shows a weaker economy going into 2009, we paying a lower dividend is prudent capital management. While it is tough for me to announce a dividend cut, I see it as taking one step backwards in order to take two steps forward.

While I will call the dividend cut temporary, I will say that once our earnings return to more normalized levels, I will be the first one to ask our Board for a dividend review. Our history of paying dividends is impressive and I look forward to the day our dividend can get back in line with where it has been.

Earnings for the third quarter of $1.18 billion or $0.15 per diluted share were disappointing. But we're talking about earnings, not losses. Good performance in several of our businesses was offset by market turbulence, losses related to several onetime events and continued high credit cost.

Although it is difficult to focus on what is going right at this time, we ask that you as investors recognize how well several of our businesses are performing. We're seeing impressive execution in consumer banking as well as momentum in commercial banking both in lending and in treasury management.

Offsetting much of this success was several events related to the market turbulence. These events including losses associated with exposure to Fannie and Freddie, support of the Colombia cash funds, a challenging trading environment, additional negative marks on certain balance sheet positions and potential losses related to our auction rate securities settlement.

In addition, the economy weakened materially from the second quarter as evidenced by rising unemployment, bankruptcies and continuing home price declines. This weakening drove an increase in expected credit cost causing us to substantially add once again to our allowance for loan losses which now exceeds $20 billion.

In light of our outlook for the rest of this year and 2009, the dividend and capital actions better insulate us from problems that may occur. These actions allow us to be be positioned for businesses as usual and for growth opportunities at the expense of others. So with these comments, let's go over the numbers.

I will spend a few moments discussing third quarter earnings, focusing mainly on the highlights across the Company with some specific comments within the different businesses. Then Joe will delve a bit deeper into certain issues such as capital markets, credit quality, capital and Countrywide.

In the third quarter as I mentioned, net income was $1.2 billion with $704 million available to common shareholders of $0.15 per diluted share including the impact of merger and restructuring charges of $0.04. Total revenue for the third quarter was $19.9 billion on an FTE basis, down approximately 15% from the second quarter excluding Countrywide but up approximately 5% from the third quarter a year ago.

Consumer and commercial client flows remain relatively strong throughout the quarter in most of our businesses even with the continued turmoil in the housing markets. Net interest income rose 4% from the second quarter excluding Countrywide while non-interest income decreased 36%.

Driving much of the decrease in non-interest income was the impact of continued market disruption in trading account profits, equity investment income and other income. Non-interest expense was flat with the second quarter excluding Countrywide.

Provision expense of approximately $6.5 billion increased by $620 million from the second quarter while net charge-offs rose $737 million to $4.4 billion. Increase in reserves of approximately $2 billion brings the allowance for loan losses -- loan and lease losses above $20 billion as I mentioned to almost 2.2% of our loan and lease portfolio.

Credit cost remains at high levels reflecting weaker housing markets and an increasingly slowing economy particularly in geographic regions that have experienced significant home price declines. This weakening which was exacerbated by recent increases in unemployment and bankruptcies resulted in additional credit deterioration across many of our portfolios.

Excluding the addition of Countrywide, core deposits at period end versus the second quarter increased approximately 4% or almost $27 billion, $21 billion of retail deposits and almost $6 billion of commercial. We believe that retail growth is a multiple of the overall market.

We also believe this is being driven by flight to safety. It is producing faster than normal organic growth in retail and commercial customers. During the quarter, net new checking and savings accounts were 1.8 million which was an increase of 44% from second quarter results.

After adjusting for the sale of prime brokerage in the quarter which represented about $9 billion in loans, commercial lending, excluding small-business, increased $5 billion, a portion of which we believe is related to recent disruptions in the credit markets and is a combination of new business and drawdowns. Countrywide contributed an estimated $259 million in net income excluding $72 million in merger-related charges.

Given the 107 million shares issued for Countrywide, the earnings are clearly accretive to the overall earnings. In addition to earnings, the integration effort with Countrywide, credit quality and actual savings are all generally in line with our previously disclosed expectations.

You may have seen our announcement this morning with various state attorneys general to create a home retention program to modify troubled mortgages with interest rate and principal reductions for Countrywide customers. That loan modification program is in line with our expectations, so there is no impact on our purchase accounting adjustments.

Unfortunately, given our early earnings release, we don't yet have the detailed P&L's for our individual businesses which we will issue later this month. Before I turn it over to Joe, let me make a couple of comments about our thinking given the current environment, some of which references my earlier comments.

Our economic expectations project minimal if any GDP growth for the remainder of 2008 as any stimulus actions in the short-term will be more offset by the slowing economy. This expectation combined with current market conditions including housing, unemployment and restricted credit supports our view that the economy is moving to a more recessionary environment.

Unemployment weakness is expected to continue into and through a good part of 2009 with the possibility of unemployment rising above 7%. Consequently, credit quality will continue to be an issue over the next several quarters with provision and charge-offs remaining at elevated levels and perhaps not peaking until well into 2009. We see commercial credit deteriorating but not expected to rise to the levels seen in the last two cycles.

Shifting gears, we closed the acquisition of Countrywide on July 1 and continue to see that investment as being economically attractive in the long-term and in the short-term as well. Our Tier 1 capital ratio is estimated to be 7.50% at quarter end, down from 8.25% at June 30 due to addition of Countrywide.

Given the dividend reduction and capital raise, we believe that Tier 1 levels including Merrill Lynch on a pro forma basis will be around our target. Given our current economic outlook, we believe most of our core businesses will drive earnings for the remainder of the year and into next year along with the continued tight grip on expense levels across the Company.

Most importantly, we remain committed to serving our customers and clients will driving profitability during these tougher times and we believe our capital actions will enhance that capability. With that, I'll turn it over to Joe to expand a bit more on the quarter as well as on some of the points that I referenced.

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks Ken. Let me begin by elaborating a bit more on third quarter results before turning to credit quality, capital and Countrywide.

Turning to GCIB and more specifically capital markets and advisory services, results this quarter were materially impacted by market events. Investment banking fees across the Corporation were down 32% from the second quarter to $474 million as market activity slowed given widening spreads and the lack of deal flow.

Total revenue in CMAS excluding investment banking fees, or what we call Sales and Trading, was a loss of approximately $242 million versus a positive $1.2 billion in the second quarter. Now we would characterize market disruption charges this quarter as approximately $1.8 billion. These charges continue to be centered in CDO-related write-downs as well as a couple of other areas.

Now let me start with leveraged lending where we ended the quarter with exposure of $6.6 billion. That was comprised of $2.3 billion unfunded and $4.3 billion funded and was down $3.7 billion from June 30. The reduction since the end of June was driven by cash sales consistent with the previous quarters, meaning no transfers to the accrual book.

The unfunded portion generally represents new business at market terms. Now during the quarter we wrote down an additional $145 million versus $503 million in the first half of this year as pricing continued to erode a bit during the quarter due to market volatility. Importantly, legacy or pre-disruption exposure totaled $4.2 billion at September 30, all of which was funded and that reflects a reduction of about $2.4 billion from the ended June.

Now for prospective total leveraged exposure at September 30, 2007 on the beginning of this disruption was over $32 billion. Now on the commercial mortgage-backed securities side or CMBS side, we ended the quarter with $8.2 billion in exposure of which 7.5 was funded. As I mentioned last quarter, approximately 80% is comprised of larger ticket floating rate debt, most of which was acquisition related.

This floating rate debt was written down approximately $145 million this quarter. Now this exposure was reduced by a little over $1 billion this quarter based on the sales that we had. Now as we said before, this product is difficult to hedge as compared to the remaining $1.7 billion of exposure which is primarily fixed-rate conduit paper.

In a related matter, we recorded $34 million of losses associated with equity investments we made in the acquisition related financing transactions. Now there were several other legacy books where we continued to record losses but to a lesser extent compared to prior quarters given the reduced risk levels.

Finally, in the supplemental package, you can see our CDO and subprime related exposure along with the changes during the quarter where we recorded losses of $952 million. The losses were largely comprised of approximately $725 million of super senior CDO write-downs and a charge of approximately $225 million to reflect the counterparty risk associated with our insured super senior positions.

At the end of September, our net subprime super senior related exposure dropped to $2.9 billion and when combined with earlier repurchased asset-backed securities, our exposure was $4.3 billion. We also took an additional $222 million of charges on the insured deals bringing our reserve on the receivable to $700 million.

This exposure is included on the schedule in the supplemental package along with the relevant information. Now spread widening on corporate loans drove an overall value decline on our non-subprime exposure in the CDO area this quarter. All CDO-related losses are included in the $952 million that I referenced earlier.

Now as you are aware like many of our competitors, we agreed to offer to buy back auction rate securities that we had sold to certain customers. The total amount of ARS that we have agreed to repurchase is approximately -- or offer to repurchase is approximately $4.5 billion. The impact of that agreement was a cost of over $300 million which was split principally between CMAS and GWIM, or our global wealth and investment management business.

Now we also closed the sale of our prime brokerage business, generating a net gain of just over $200 million and also sold our remaining held USAir credit card accounts or our remaining USAir credit card accounts for a gain of approximately $280 million. Other items of note in the quarter included a loss of $320 million on preferred stock we held in Fannie and Freddie which hit the equity investment income line.

Now finally in GWIM, we provided additional support to the Columbia cash fund of $630 million related to the structured investment vehicle restructurings as well as other financial institution holdings. Now needless to say, we had our share of issues to deal with in the quarter.

Before jumping into credit quality, let me point out that we have added a new line item to our P&L or income statement under non-interest income, that is insurance income. With the inclusion of Countrywide in the third quarter, our insurance revenues are now broken out on a separate line.

Revenue from our legacy Bank of America insurance businesses are included here versus in other income in the previous quarters along with the Countrywide businesses. The Countrywide activities include the Balboa home and auto business sourced through lender relationships as well as revenues from the primary mortgage reinsurance business.

Now let me switch to credit quality. On a held basis, net charge-offs in the quarter increased 17 basis points from second quarter to 1.84% of the portfolio or $4.4 billion. That would be 2.01% if you exclude the Countrywide portfolios.

On a managed basis, overall consolidated net losses in the quarter increased 16 basis points to 2.32% of the managed loan portfolio or $6.1 billion. And again excluding Countrywide, that would be 2.51%. Managed net losses in the consumer portfolios were 2.89% versus 2.83% in the second quarter and again excluding Countrywide, that would be 3.25%.

Managed consumer credit card net losses represent almost 60% of total consumer losses. Managed consumer credit card net losses as a percent of the portfolio increased to 6.40% from 5.96% in the second quarter, approaching the high end of the range we expressed last quarter. 30 day plus delinquencies in managed consumer credit card increased 36 basis points to 5.89% while 90 day plus delinquencies increased six basis points.

Now we've continued to see increased delinquencies in our card portfolio in those states most affected by housing problems while our foreign portfolio remains relatively flat. California and Florida make up a little less than a quarter of our domestic consumer card book but represent about one-third of losses.

Clearly with current net losses at 6.40% should unemployment rise above 7%, we would expect to see losses exceed 7%. Now current credit quality in our consumer real estate business continued to deteriorate from the second quarter also.

We have begun to see a slowdown in the rate of deterioration in home equity, although residential mortgage continues to increase. Our largest concentrations are in California and Florida which combine to represent about 40% of home equity portfolio and about 66% of the losses.

Home equity net losses increased $40 million to $964 million or 2.53% versus the 3.09% in the prior quarter. Excluding Countrywide, the current quarter would be 3.15%.

Now legacy Bank of America 30 plus performing delinquencies increased 19 basis points to 1.46% while nonperforming assets increased 12 basis points to 1.76%. Consistent with the prior quarter, a large percentage of net charge-offs related to loans where the borrower was delinquent and had little or no equity in the home, that represented 87% of those in the third quarter.

Now while we're encouraged by the tapering off of deterioration, the worsening economic environment continues to put pressure on portfolio performance in home equity. We've seen utilization tick up slightly to 49% primarily driven by line management strategies versus additional draws and slower payments.

Through September we've blocked or reduced approximately $11 billion in lines to higher risk customers and in higher risk states. Our ending home equity balance of $123 billion -- and this is without Countrywide, so the legacy Bank of America portfolio -- grew 1% during the quarter. New business and increased utilization both contributed about $1.9 billion in growth which was partially offset by paydowns and charge-offs.

Now as we said last quarter, with the increased economic and credit pressures we continue to believe that the loss rate could cross the 4% market in 2009. Our residential mortgage portfolio showed an increase in net losses to $242 million or 37 basis points for the quarter.

That would be 41 basis points excluding the Countrywide portfolios. We continue to see deterioration in our community reinvestment act portfolio which totals some 7% of the residential book. Additionally, California and Florida which combined represent or comprise 42% of the legacy Bank of America balances, drove 62% of the net losses through August.

The annualized loss rate from the CRA book was 1.26% and represented 29% of the residential mortgage net losses. Although approximately $129 billion or 50% of our residential mortgage portfolio carries risk mitigation protection, it does not cover our CRA portfolio.

Now the $129 billion, approximately 92% is protected where we sell mezzanine risk exposures to cash collaterallized structures, thereby leaving us with no counterparty risk. The remaining 8% is protected by GSE's.

Now I should note that we continue to reduce whole loan balances ex-Countrywide by converting them to securities as one of many actions we're taking to fortify liquidity. This is the effect of bringing down the average loan balances thereby negatively impacting the reported loan loss rate. However, having said that, we do see continued deterioration as evidenced by our decision to increase reserves to 54 basis points on this portfolio.

Obviously worsening economic conditions could drive that number higher. Our auto portfolio at the end of September was about $24 billion in loans. Net losses in the quarter were $114 million or an annualized 1.57% of the portfolio up from 1.26% in the second quarter which had been helped a little by the seasonal trends.

Now within card services, we have a consumer lending business that has about $29 billion in unsecured consumer loans. Largely due to increased unemployment and increased bankruptcies this portfolio is also experiencing rising delinquencies and losses. Net credit losses were 8.43% in the third quarter up 136 basis points over the second quarter.

Loss rates have also been impacted by tightening and underwriting criteria resulting in a significant slowdown in loan growth. Now like our other portfolios, California and Florida continue to have outside delinquencies and loss contributions in relation to their outstandings.

Loss mitigation initiatives have been implemented in this portfolio as well including increased collection efforts and tighter account management. During the quarter we increased reserves on this portfolio by about $700 million to a level of around 10.5% of ending loans.

Switching to commercial or the commercial portfolios, net charge-offs increased $266 million in the quarter to $960 million or 113 basis points up 29 basis points from the second quarter. Much of the deterioration this quarter was driven by commercial real estate which was $126 million, mainly home builders.

Net losses in small-business which are reported as commercial loan losses, are up $50 million from the second quarter and the net charge-off rate has risen to 10.64%. The rest of the increase was broadly spread across various industries.

Now if you exclude small-business from commercial domestic, our loss rate dropped to 23 basis points which is still below normalized levels. As we've discussed before, many of issues in small-business relate to the rapid growth of the portfolio over the past few years which is now compounded by the current economic trends. The continued increases are consistent with the seasoning of these vintages and while clearly too high, are generally in line with our forecast from last quarter.

Now turning to criticized, our criticized utilized exposure in our commercial book excluding available for sale and fair value loans increased $5.5 billion from the end of June spread across more than one dozen industries. Commercial NPA's rose $1 billion to $5.1 billion. Nearly half of the increase in commercial NPAs was in commercial real estate and mainly in home builders.

Now with respect to the total legacy Bank of America loan book, 90-day performing past dues on a managed basis increased two basis points to 81 basis points while 30-day performing past due increased 21 basis points to 2.58%. And as Ken said, third-quarter provision of $6.5 billion exceeded net charge-offs resulting in the addition of approximately $2 billion to the reserve.

The majority of the reserve increase was in the consumer portfolios, most notably consumer unsecured lending, credit card and residential mortgage reflecting the current stress on the consumer. We also increased the domestic commercial allowance excluding the small-business portion, by approximately $150 million reflecting modest deterioration across the portfolio. Our reserve now stands at $20.3 billion or 2.2% of our loan and lease portfolio.

Okay, let me get off of credit quality and say a couple of things about net interest income. Compared to second quarter on a managed and FTE basis, net interest income was up $1.04 billion of which core which we define as excluding trading related, represented $960 million.

The increase in core NII was driven by the addition of Countrywide which represented about $644 million with the remaining increase of $316 million due to balance sheet positioning, loan growth and day count. We estimate the Fed fund's LIBOR spread dislocation cost us about $400 million in the quarter compared to historical spreads.

The core net interest margin on a managed basis decreased seven basis points over second quarter to 3.79% due primarily to the addition of Countrywide. Excluding Countrywide, the margin would've increased nine basis points.

Our interest rate risk position is less liability sensitive relative to our position at the end of June. Now going forward, the negative disparity in the Fed fund's LIBOR rates will have a continued negative impact on net interest income.

Okay, let me say a few things about capital. Tier 1 capital is estimated to be 7.50% at the end of September. Given the capital actions we announced today, we believe that Tier 1 on a pro forma basis with Merrill Lynch would be around our targeted ratio of 8% after closing the transaction.

Obviously that is dependent on our current fourth-quarter outlook. We ended the quarter at 4.0% and 2.6% for tangible total and tangible common respectively. These ratios will be enhanced with the capital actions we're taking.

Now let me switch and follow-up on what Ken said about Countrywide. We closed the acquisition of Countrywide on July 1 so third quarter results reflect a whole quarter's impact. We estimate that it was accretive by about $0.06.

Now going forward as we integrate the operation, it's going to be increasingly difficult to split out the Countrywide contribution. And that integration process leads me to another item.

As we indicated in the past once we reached a point of determining our operating environment, we would indicate how we would handle the Countrywide debt. And while I don't want to get into all the details here, let me say that we preliminarily determined where the various operations would fit within our corporate structure.

And as we transfer those operations, our Company intends to assume the outstanding Countrywide debt totaling approximately $21 billion. Accordingly, you'll see us filing notice with the New York Stock Exchange to de-list that debt.

Now the process we followed in determining the operational structure prior to assuming the Countrywide debt will be the same process we intend to follow with the Merrill Lynch acquisition. Now in our package we've included some highlights for Countrywide reflecting third quarter results.

As you can see, average total assets at Countrywide were $151 billion. Average loans and leases net of the purchase accounting adjustments were $78 billion and average deposits were $59 billion.

The total revenue for the quarter was $2.4 billion of which approximately $644 million was net interest income. Non-interest income was $1.7 billion including $1.2 billion of mortgage banking income and about $500 million of insurance income.

In the third quarter, MSR adjustments related to Countrywide were approximately $375 million and mortgage originations from the Countrywide franchise during the quarter were $40 billion versus $59 billion in the second quarter. Driving the decrease in the second quarter was an overall reduction in the mortgage market as well as a reduction in refinance activity given the rate environment.

Now as Ken said, we continue to be on track as far as costs save and integration efforts. Credit quality results were also in line with our expectations.

Now switching to Merrill Lynch for a minute, we're happy to announce that John Thain will be assuming a major role at Bank of America once the acquisition closes. John will be in charge of what we currently call global corporate investment banking as well as global wealth and investment management which will incorporate most of Merrill Lynch's businesses.

Our transition teams and legal day one teams are being formed and milestones are being established. Now subject to shareholders approval, we intend to close that deal as soon as we can which could be as soon as year-end.

Going forward into '09, let me reiterate that there's considerable uncertainty about the economic environment and it does appear that the market disruptions, housing situation and rising unemployment are starting to take their toll on the economy.

Those banks with market presence and strong balance sheets can weather and even benefit from the situation and we do feel good about our relative position in our businesses versus the competition. Loan and deposit growth generated by the franchise are still expected to benefit net interest income in the short-term and we believe growth will continue in non-interest income from our consumer businesses.

Consumer credit quality will continue as a headwind due to what appears to be further deterioration in housing and unemployment levels and their subsequent impact on consumer asset quality. Similarly, we would expect to see challenges in the consumer dependent sectors of our commercial portfolios. Given these scenarios, we would expect net losses to be at least at levels we experienced in the third quarter.

Now on the expense side, again as Ken mentioned, we're aiming for improved operating efficiencies and heavy expense control as well as savings realized from the Lasalle integration and now Countrywide. With that, let me open it up for questions and I thank you for your attention.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Matthew O'Connor, UBS.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: You provided a lot of good detail on the reserves and asset quality by subcategory. Specifically I'm looking on page 24 in the commercial breakdown and it just seems like there has been a lot of deterioration in terms of higher non-performers, higher charge-offs and the loan loss reserves have only gone up a little bit. I was just wondering if you could revisit how you reserve there and if there might be more meaningful reserve (inaudible) going forward?

KEN LEWIS: I think (inaudible) and I think focusing on that slide, to look at it is a good way to do it because if you look at some of the increases that have occurred compared to the charge-off rates that we have seen, look at the -- I referenced in my prepared remarks the core commercial business when you exclude small-business and the commercial real estate, and there charge-offs went from about 13 basis points up to 28, we did see an increase in non-performing loans in that book of business and we did see some increase, a sizable increase quite frankly in criticized utilized.

But if you look at where we reserved for that business, we were reserved at just under 100 basis points or 94 basis points. What we would generally say is we are running -- we're still running below our normalized range of losses for that portfolio which is obviously the largest of the portfolios. So it's somewhat of a function of our existing reserves in addition to the details of the underlying loan quality.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: I guess specifically on the commercial real estate book where there has been a little more deterioration and the reserves just ticked up a couple bips.

KEN LEWIS: The commercial real estate is where we have built some level of reserves before but a very similar kind of approach to that. Obviously the home builders are the place that have the largest -- where we have the weakest borrowers from that standpoint.

So we would expect to see continued elevation in the charge-off rate on the commercial real estate side but not to the extent of some prior downturns where you saw a very different kind of commercial real estate lending. And that's kind of what is driving the view of how much we reserve there.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: And then Ken maybe you could just provide a little more color in terms of the timing of the capital rates here? Obviously a lot has changed the last couple of weeks and it seems like the timing could be very smart before either Wells or Citi gets out there with their raises and the shorts come back in.

How much of it is the environment as you're looking forward thinking that commercial loss and consumer loss will be a lot higher? How much of it is for the Merrill deal and how much of it is just kind of opportunities to grow organically since a lot of other banks are pulling back?

KEN LEWIS: I guess I should say all of the above and shut up. You kind of hit the high points. What we have seen, gosh, even in the last 45 days things worsen in the economy, a view that the recession is going to be a little deeper than we originally thought. (inaudible) coverage going to take longer, that the charge-offs are going to remain high for a more extended period of time that we would have thought just since last quarter. So that was one piece.

In that kind of environment we think it's prudent to have higher levels of capital and not be dependent on getting back to your targeted ratios as long as we would have done it in a normal environment. Secondly, we did think that there was -- there seems to be that there has been clutter. We obviously had three big capital raises by Goldman, JPMorgan Chase and GE. We had the possibility of Wells, Citi and others getting out of the marketplace as well.

And then finally, we are seeing opportunities that we have never seen before with clients when you do business with us. And we want to just maintain that strong capital base and be able to absorb additional business as we go forward.

So it really is a lot of the above. We don't look real smart today given what happened but all in all, we just thought it was prudent to get out there sooner rather than later. You know you could talk about a mess on estimates, but estimates don't seem to mean as much as they used to and we thought just having a level of profitability over $1 billion might distinguish us among our competitors during this particular environment.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Just lastly if I may, it's still early with TARP program out there, but you have written down the Countrywide assets quite a bit and Merrill's side has taken quite a bit of hits as well. Any additional thoughts on how you might dispose of those assets with the benefit of the TARP program?

JOE PRICE: Mat, first I guess we would say that we think the TARP program is a beneficial thing overall and are glad to see it have gone through. With regards to individual transactions, you know we will evaluate them as they come up, our opportunities.

And I say that because you can compare that to this morning where you saw us announce an effort to try to keep people in their homes with principal and rate reductions that we think is a better cash flow answer to our investors that we service loans for, but also loans that we hold on our balance sheet that were marked through the COuntrywide activity, from that standpoint. So we will have to evaluate it versus the other alternatives in each particular scenario that we come across.

OPERATOR: Meredith Whitney, Oppenheimer.

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I have a couple of questions. My first is can you characterize the momentum of the deposit build throughout the quarter? I assume that the momentum of the commercial paper decline was back-end loaded, but can the offset of the strong deposits -- if you could qualify that, that would be helpful.

KEN LEWIS: In fact, Joe has got some numbers right here that show some incredible momentum toward the end of the quarter.

JOE PRICE: Meredith, if you look at our -- let's focus on retail deposit growth for a minute. On the retail side, average balances grew about $8 billion which by itself we think is -- will be higher than the industry. But if you look at the more recent period, so you just take the end of the period levels, we're up about $21 billion and we did see a lot of that increase come in in the last -- let's call it the last 30 days.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay (inaudible) is that continuing into the fourth quarter?

KEN LEWIS: Pardon me?

MEREDITH WHITNEY: It's only a few days but is that continuing at the same pace into the fourth quarter?

JOE PRICE: Yes, we've continued the first few days. Like you said, it's early but at least the daily reporting that I see and that we see and Liam does shows some continuation of that.

KEN LEWIS: Secondly, the commercial deposit growth shows not as large because the book is not as large but shows exactly the same kind of characteristics with it being backloaded toward the end of the month. And then secondly, one of the things that really caught my attention was the 44% increase in net new accounts. That means individuals are moving their relationship business, not just a CD or something.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, so you guys have the benefit of the offset of strong deposits. Others may not be so lucky. But as the commercial paper market continues as it has been over the last couple of weeks, what does that do to your card business?

How does it change the dynamics of any of your consumer lending businesses on a day-to-day basis? I know you have been cutting lines on a risk-based basis anyway. But is there any near-term impact protraction or disruption the commercial paper would have on your lines?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: From a consumer lending standpoint, any of modifications we've made have really been focused on risk mitigation and trying to make sure we're underwriting the quality of paper we want to be underwriting as opposed to any funding driven implications for that standpoint. So just this discussion and all of this is done out of the bank level obviously.

But just as the discussion on deposits that we just had, that coupled with our other sources of liquidity at the bank level have allowed us to continue to serve customers based on the criteria that we felt good about; so really not an impact there. Obviously the CP markets freezing up has an impact on any kind of term funding you would like to do. But that probably has a little more impact on some others than us.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: And then the last question which is related to your assumption on unemployment, given the fact that California, one of our biggest states is already well above 7% unemployment, I would love to be more positive than I am, what are you seeing that I am not? Because I would be much more pessimistic about a 7% base case unemployment scenario.

KEN LEWIS: Well we said over seven as opposed to try to put a point estimate, although you're right in saying lower over seven rather than higher. We think quite frankly where you're seeing those highest unemployment rates kind of correspond to where you saw the highest growth.

So you really have seen that push forward so let's kind of say they correspond to the housing related states or the places that states have the most housing related issues versus nationally. While consumers are under stress, if you look at our delinquency trends across the US, they are much more pronounced to the negative in those particular states that already have that level of unemployment in them.

KEVIN STITT: The only positive I can think of is the states that we're mentioning, who would you bet on over the longer-term? Florida and California are going to be states that grow and are going to be prosperous over time and that is the positive.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Fair enough. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, Deutsche Bank.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I guess when you look at loan growth, it's good news and maybe bad news. Can you kind of talk about where the loan growth is coming from if you strip out Countrywide and how much that loan growth is involuntary due to drawdowns by corporations, really how you balance that loan growth with a drive to keep asset quality still good?

JOE PRICE: I tried to give in the prepared remarks a comment about home equity on the consumer side for a minute. I mean there, most of the utilization increase was driven by the line reductions, the unfunded line reductions and about half and half of the net additional growth came out of new business process draws net of paydowns.

If you look at on the commercial side as I think you are alluding to, earlier this year and leading into this quarter we did see a lot of opportunities. We continue to see opportunities and the easy example is to think about the backup in the auction rate securities market. So whether it's governments or municipalities, medical type of -- or hospitals etc., you see some good solid growth where it's our -- you know, we have the opportunity for good client selection, good structure selection etc.

I would say the general draws on revolvers are on backup lines. The rhetoric is a little bit ahead of the actual in terms of you read more about it in the headlines than we're seeing. We are seeing some from that standpoint and a good bit of it is quite frankly high investment-grade borrowers but also admittedly that some of the weaker borrowers, not obviously the weakest that can't draw on it. So it's really a blended mix from there but not a noticeable amount of kind of at the edge draws from that standpoint.

KEN LEWIS: I think the thing that we are seeing that I can't recall ever seeing is people actually coming to us saying we've made a decision that we want to bank with you and you be our bank and we are going to move the whole relationship. Usually what happens is they want a loan and then they promise somewhere down the road to move their treasury management or whatever and they actually are bringing the whole relationship this time. Again these are well-written, well underwritten and good pricing. So that really is good news.

MIKE MAYO: (inaudible) you mentioned NII might be heard ahead and could you just explain that a little bit more? Because it sounds like you have some good trends here but NII should go down I guess you said due to LIBOR?

JOE PRICE: Well I was just saying that LIBOR or the Fed fund LIBOR spread was obviously pretty high early in the quarter and even last quarter and we were wishing for it to go back to normal. Given where it went at the end of this quarter, we are wishing for it to get back to where it was when we thought it was bad is a way to think about it.

Mike, if you looked at that spread because of the posture of our balance sheet or the composition of our balance sheet, we get hurt being liability sensitive and having let's call it more LIBOR based or proxy based on LIBOR funding. So as that stays elevated, compared to the funds rate which is more akin to what our assets price on, we obviously get hit some for that.

If you looked at the end of September at how elevated the interbank lending rate was and you projected that and said it would stay out there or stay at a reasonably elevated level compared to this past quarter, I was just saying that is a headwind coming at us that would temper what we would otherwise be able to do.

MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, link quarter you said excluding Countrywide, your expenses were flat but I think if you exclude Countrywide, your revenues were down quite a bit even stripping out some of those onetime items you mentioned. So where do you guys stand on improving efficiency? Ken, I know you don't like having a 57% efficiency ratio. So how should we think about that during the tougher times?

KEN LEWIS: First of all, the trading results just in general as the spreads widen really hurt the revenue. Investment banking was down because of the obvious inactivity. So those who would be two big -- the card income, because of you've got losses embedded in that revenue item through the (inaudible) you have got -- that hurt. On the other side -- and then you had as you mentioned all the one-off items. It was kind of a perfect storm kind of quarter that looked a lot like the first quarter, unfortunately.

So I think it's hard to kind of interpolate from all of that happening what your real revenue run rate is. I would say though that we may have to adjust the -- get us some time to get some regular run rates. But we may have to accept a little higher efficiency ratio because Countrywide -- our mortgage company inherently has a higher efficiency ratio and we will have to take that into account. But this particular efficiency ratio was driven by poor revenue, not really poor expense control.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, a couple of questions. One is on the CCB investment. I think you have your three-year period here this quarter. In addition you had increased your investment in CCB last quarter. I'm just wondering how you are thinking about the position that you have today and either increasing or decreasing at the margin?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Well we first always make the comment that we view it as a long-term strategic investment and would plan to hold a substantial ownership position over a long period of time. And then beyond that Betsy, we kind of -- what we do talk about should we monetize some of it while still maintaining a big position and we will just kind of look at that both this quarter and going into next year to determine if in fact we want to do something. The capital raised and the dividend cut kind of allow us to look at it as another leverage pool if we wish as opposed to needing to pull it.

BETSY GRASECK: I know you increased your investment into second-quarter. Did you do so as well in the third quarter?

KEN LEWIS: No.

BETSY GRASECK: Then on Tier 1, if I could just get a sense of how you're thinking about Tier 1. I understand that 8% is your target but we also have an expectation for a pretty difficult environment ahead and probably rising nonperformers. So I am wondering if there's anything that keeps you targeting 8% versus potentially having a little extra cushion for tough times ahead.

KEN LEWIS: I would probably say that generally we're comfortable with 8% and quite frankly we feel we can run the Company on a little less than that. And that would be why you've historically seen us take advantage of strategic opportunities and then kind of build back over x number of quarters.

Realistically the actions we're talking about today just accelerate getting us back to that point and then obviously a lower level of dividend payments will contribute over time to a little more rapid continued building of capital. So that is really the focus as opposed to recalibrating 8%, although it's really a plus or minus as opposed to being a straight (inaudible)

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, I guess I am wondering if you had interest beyond the $10 billion that you're seeking would you choose to upsize your offering?

KEN LEWIS: More than likely, yes.

BETSY GRASECK: Is there any level you would cap if off at?

KEN LEWIS: Well we have got x amount of shares and so that is one. I have forgotten that exact number but I think --

JOE PRICE: I think Betsy that the first of all overallotment size may be maybe a little more than that but as Ken said, it's something in that -- if it's over 10, it's in the low teens.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, okay. Just on (inaudible) that comes into play first quarter '09. Is that right?

KEN LEWIS: Well it comes into selected areas but we don't actually get governed by that. We start our parallel prospectus in the future as opposed to being a 1-1-09 person.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, so you wouldn't be announcing your (inaudible) Tier 1 any time soon?

KEN LEWIS: No.

JOE PRICE: I guess that will prevent the system -- investment banks that are now banks, prevent them from claiming these (inaudible) ratios.

BETSY GRASECK: I'm not so sure about that, given that all of Europe is on Basel II. We are kind of the odd man out there. Anyway, okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Goldman Sachs.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I guess last quarter your pre-provision earnings growth was a lot better than expected and even if we back out all the write-downs in Countrywide, it seems like it shrank this quarter. So how can you I guess help us quantify what the core pre-provision earnings momentum is right now?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Well it's hard because of the -- because you've got some embedded credit losses in your credit card revenue that is not in provision but up there in that (inaudible). And then you've got an investment banking environment that was worse. And then you have got the poor trading environment on top of all of these onetime items.

So it just makes it very difficult. Clearly the second quarter is going to be a better predictor of what this thing will look like when (inaudible) on the other side. But the way I look at it is that we not that long ago -- it couldn't be that long ago because I can still remember it, we were a $5 billion net income plus Company per quarter and that was before Countrywide, before LaSalle, before cost savings and before Merrill Lynch and cost savings on top of that. So on the other side of this, you have got a powerhouse but we have got to get past all the things we have been talking about.

BRIAN FORAN: And then on the deposit growth, the growth has been great, pricing industrywide has gotten worse. So are the new deposits coming on at higher or lower cost than they would have been last quarter?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Early in the quarter we ran a CD special as more of a retail focused sales activity type of thing, ran it for a week, picked up the good bit of net new money in that one. But even than we didn't price like some of the competitors were pricing and really felt like we probably got a good bit of the business that was in the market during that week.

Here as of late, it has been I guess what I would call a little more of a flight to safety or some kind of concept of that nature where we have been pricing as we always price competitively but not out front by any means. We try to stay pretty disciplined and we have got that growth in that pricing environment.

KEN LEWIS: We've got -- I think it was $9 billion in eight days or something like and that was just more of a test than anything else and helped the morale of the consumer sales force. But the fact that Washington Mutual is now owned by Chase is very positive because they were a huge outlier on rates. And then if Wachovia were to get -- if Wells Fargo were to get Wachovia, that would be very positive as it relates to rates because they are a very rational pricer. So we see better times ahead on the outliers as well.

BRIAN FORAN: Lastly if I could, is the tax rate this quarter just lower earnings or are there some benefits arising from Countrywide that would recur?

JOE PRICE: Think of it as just adjusting to the annual effective rate, no major items coming out driven out of Countrywide.

OPERATOR: David Hilder, Putnam Investments.

DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, PUTNAM INVESTMENTS: Can you provide any information on what Merrill's earnings in the third quarter were?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: No. I think they announce on the 16 and obviously (inaudible) a separate public company and we have to let them be on their own and announce their own earnings.

DAVID HILDER: Any prospect of closing the Merrill transaction materially before year-end?

KEN LEWIS: No, as I said in those prepared comments, the focus would be on trying to get it done at year-end. So before year-end think of that as basically the end of the year.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: I guess I would -- I have asked this question I think for the past couple of quarters and I would ask it again is when do we start seeing credit quality in the small-business portfolio stop getting sort of dramatically worse? For a couple of quarters it was previous underwriting criteria. Now it seems to become the economy. So how much longer does this go on?

KEN LEWIS: Nancy, I guess one of the ways to think about this is you can see that we continue to increase our reserve associated with that paper which has got some nature of forward-looking view in that. The vintages that we have talked to you about before clearly are continuing to season.

That is -- this is more akin to consumer than commercial in terms of performance in an economic slowdown. So that is adding to what otherwise would have come through but the best thing I can do is kind of point you to see that we are in fact continuing to increase the reserves or carry a higher level of reserve on that paper.

JOE PRICE: Nancy, I don't want to mince words. I'm very happy this is relatively small but it's a damn disaster.

NANCY BUSH: Well you get points for candor Ken. My other question would be this and this is sort of more philosophical and Ken it's probably directed at you. We keep hearing that there's plenty of liquidity in the system but the banks are not lending and I think you -- Joe you made a statement that you pull back on $11 billion of home equity lines etc., etc.

You know, Ken how do you feel about your lending posture at this point? Is there some patriotic duty to lend here? When does this come to a halt?

KEN LEWIS: I don't couch it under patriotic duty but I think some of the things we are doing on behalf of Countrywide will help the country and will help people stay in homes. Nancy, I have said for some time despite all the things that we are doing, it's going to take some more time and some more pain because you have got the world de-levering.

It's not just the investment banks or some capital markets here. The consumer is having to de-lever and throughout the world people are de-levering and it's going to take some time to readjust. Yet we are making every good loan we can find and getting new relationships and actually doing very well in the marketplace but it's not going to be pretty for a while.

NANCY BUSH: Ken, do you think what actually is happening is just the marginal credit is now being excluded? You say you're making every good loan you can find and I hear the same thing from the rest of the banks, but then we have got XYZ auto dealer out there who can't make a loan, can't get funding for lending and etc., etc. I mean is it just a whole re-evaluation of consumer credit quality and what that now means?

KEN LEWIS: Yes, I think you're not -- I don't think anybody's making prime or Alt-A loans anymore, just to name one. In every product, the standards have been raised and in most cases pricing is better or worse for the consumer. So it is just very different than three months ago, six months ago and nine months ago and that's going to continue for some period of time.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We're going to take one more question.

OPERATOR: Jason Goldberg, Barclays Capital.

JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Just to be clear, I know when you kind of announced the Merrill deal you kind of alluded to raising capital and possibly cutting the dividend. The $10 billion you're raising today, should we expect that to be that and then done or look for additional capital once the Merrill deal is closed?

JOE PRICE: We have considered the Merrill deal in our [intentions] here so that the numbers we were talking about as I've mentioned in the prepared remarks covered our anticipated needs from a Merrill standpoint.

KEN LEWIS: Jason, we have not -- we're not contemplating a dividend cut. We're going to cut the dividend.

JASON GOLDBERG: Right, okay and then you talked about loan losses peaking I guess towards the latter part of next year. Can (inaudible) talk to you think provision kind of peaks before then or in conjunction with that and just I guess how your thought process rolls out?

KEN LEWIS: About like that. We think we we will have elevated levels of provision the entire year. What we need to see is have some vision out 12 months where we see losses starting to come down. And the big thing is to get these reserve bills out of the way. We can easily absorb the loan losses. It's these reserve bills that hurt so much.

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay and then just lastly, I guess now that you are formally I guess guaranteeing the Countrywide debt, maybe just tell us I guess what was the hesitancy to do that I guess before today?

KEN LEWIS: Well, as we move the operations around, we had to determine -- and all of this still has to occur. We've just kind of told you our intentions on this.

We just -- the normal process we followed is what is the operational movements that we will make to combine the operations when we do that. We've said the debt would fall in line and that is -- quite frankly that is kind of what we said the whole time as opposed to kind of the very precise things people have been chasing us on. But that has been very consistent with deals we have done in the past from that standpoint.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Thanks for joining us.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may disconnect your lines at any time. Thank you for joining us. Enjoy the rest of your day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020081020e4a6001uq
  


 HD
 Q2  2008  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,358 words
   PD
21 July 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to today's teleconference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later there will be an opportunity to ask questions during our Q&A session. I will now turn the program over to Mr. Kevin Stitt. Please go ahead, sir.

KEVIN STITT, IR DIRECTOR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning and welcome. Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements, regarding both our financial condition and financial results in that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.

   TD
With that let me turn it over to Ken Lewis.

KEN LEWIS, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before we get into the analysis, I would like to say a few things. It is clear to me, at least, that many investors see the economy getting substantially worse than it is today, causing major problems for consumer, commercial businesses and consequently, bank earnings. Although we too are sensitive about the health of the economy and monitor it closely, we do not yet see the economy slipping into prolonged negative growth. While we could be wrong, our analysis indicates continued economic sluggishness through the rest of 2008 resulting in some further deterioration in credit quality. But we see eventual stabilization later this year and a start of recovery in the first half of 2009, albeit at a slow pace.

In addition, I think the market has painted our industry with a broad brush. It seems to me there's a big difference between those banks that are diversified and those banks with concentration or funding issues.

Here are things to consider about Bank of America. First, most of our businesses are performing very well even with the current state of the economy and the problems with housing. We believe our revenue streams are sustainable both net interest income as you can see in our results today as well as noninterest income, which is driven by our attractive market share in several businesses. However as I said, we are not in denial. Credit losses are still going up, but given what we see today, they are manageable.

Second, the fact that we can absorb $3.6 billion in credit losses, take $1.2 billion in additional write downs, add $2.2 billion to our loss for credit losses and still earn $3.4 billion should tell investors something about the extent and consistency of our earnings power. Third, our allowance for loan losses of $17 billion, our tier 1 capital ratio of 8.25% and our liquidity strength at the parent provide us with additional strength to weather the issues we see ahead of us. Finally, there's been a lot reported about our Countrywide transaction, much of which has been exaggerated and in some cases untrue. We will cover the details later in the call but the essential message is that Countrywide is on track and adding to the profits of Bank of America as we speak.

So with those comments, let's go over the numbers. I will spend a few moments discussing second quarter earnings, focusing mainly on the highlights across the Company, with some specific comments on individual businesses. Then Joe will delve a bit deeper into certain issues, such as Capital Markets and credit quality capital and of course Countrywide.

As you already know, Bank of America earned $3.4 billion during the quarter or $0.75 per diluted share before the impact of merger and restructuring charges of $0.03. Total revenue for the second quarter reached record levels at $20.3 billion up 19% from the first quarter. Consumer and commercial client flows remained relatively strong throughout the quarter in most of our businesses even with the continued turmoil in the housing markets. Net interest income rose 6% from the first quarter while noninterest income rose 38%. Driving the increase in noninterest income were trading account profits, which returned to profitability from a loss in the first quarter, service charges both consumer and commercial, and investment banking. Noninterest expense rose 4%. Provision expense of $5.8 million dropped slightly while net charge offs rose to $3.6 billion. In increase in reserves of $2.2 billion brings the allowance for loan and lease losses above $17 billion or approximately 2% of our loan and lease portfolio.

As expected, credit costs remain at high levels reflecting weaker housing markets particularly in geographic regions that experienced significant home price declines. This weakening, combined with a slower economy resulted in additional credit deterioration mainly across our domestic, consumer, small business and home builders portfolios. Similar to the first quarter, there were several bright spots within our core retail, commercial banking and investment banking businesses that indicate ongoing stability and recurring earnings power. While I understand that most of you are very focused on capital and credit quality, it is important to recognize our earning strength since it is paramount in how we think about the future and about our capital adequacy.

Looking specifically at global consumer and small business banking, earnings of $812 million for the second quarter were down from the first quarter but if you adjust for the Visa gain in the first quarter, earnings were up 11%. Good growth in net interest income and service charges offset lower card income, the IO Strip Valuation, and lower mortgage banking income. Provision was up slightly from the first quarter from higher losses particularly offset by lower - - excuse me, partially offset by lower but still substantial reserve additions. We once again increased the allowance in our consumer businesses due mainly to ongoing weaknesses in the housing market and economy, along with seasoning of several growth portfolios, which Joe will discuss.

Product sales were strong in several areas with net new checking accounts up seasonally from first quarter to $674,000. In residential mortgage, first mortgage originations across the company were up 2.4% to $22.4 billion compared to first quarter results. Average retail deposits including money market accounts rose $7.4 billion or 1.4% from the first quarter as growth in checking, savings, and money market levels were partially offset by a drop in CD balances. Retail purchase volumes in both US consumer credit card and debit card were up seasonally from first quarter and on a combined basis were up 6% from a year ago.

Global Wealth and Investment Management earned $573 million in the second quarter, up substantially from the first quarter. Revenue increased 19% reflecting lower support to certain cash funds of $36 million compared to $220 million in the first quarter. In addition, provision decreased $124 million due to less reserve increases than in the first quarter partially offset by higher net charge-offs Asset management fees in GWIM rose slightly from the first quarter as seasonal tax preparation fees were offset somewhat by market based activity. Brokerage income increased 6%. Premier banking and investments experienced good growth and deposit levels, 6% from the first quarter, helped largely by migration of existing customers into Premier. Assets under management in GWIM closed the quarter at $589 billion, down from first quarter due to outflows in the cash complex as well as the impact of lower equity markets.

Global Corporate and Investment Banking earned $1.7 billion in the second quarter versus $107 million in the first, reflecting improved trading results and lower write downs. In addition to lower write downs, provision expense and net charge-offs were also down from the first quarter levels. Capital Markets and Advisory Services earned $449 million in the second quarter versus a loss in the first quarter and a profit of $627 million a year ago. Our investment bank was very active in the quarter with investment banking fees of $765 million reflecting increased market share and good results in debt underwriting. Debt issuance had record market volumes in April and May led by high yield which was almost 13 times the volume in the first quarter.

Excluding CMAS, the rest of GCIB, mainly Business Lending and Treasury Services, earned $1.3 billion during the quarter, up slightly from the first quarter even before adjusting for Treasury Services' portion of the gain on the Visa related transaction. Business Lending experienced average loan growth of $10 billion or 3% while Treasury Services experienced deposit growth of 6% from first quarter as client demand for these services rose as a result of the recent market disruption. This growth in both areas is an example of the re-intermediation of core commercial lending to larger depository institutions, a trend we view as structural after several years of dis-intermediation. Not included in the three business segments is equity investment of $710 million in the second quarter. These results were driven by actual cash gains, improved valuations and dividends from our various equity investments.

Before I turn it over to Joe, let me make a couple of comments about our thinking given the current economy. Although concerned about the economy, we are encouraged by the resiliency of our consumer, commercial, and corporate customers. Continued good revenue performance in both our consumer and commercial bank along with a bounce back in trading investment banking drove what we thought was a pretty decent quarter given the environment. As expected, consumer credit quality deteriorated from first quarter levels particularly in home equity. Credit quality will continue to be an issue in the second half of 2008 with charge-offs remaining at elevated levels.

Going forward, we believe actions by the Fed and Treasury along with the eventual stabilization in home values should help to significantly slow further credit deterioration. While we don't expect to increase reserves at the pace we experienced over the past few quarters, increases in reserves in future quarters will continue to correlate with the direction of the economy and its impact on our customers. As I alluded to earlier, our economic expectations project decent GDP growth in the second quarter of 2008 aided by stimulus actions, with growth pulling back in the second half before gradual recovery in 2009. We closed the acquisition of Countrywide on July 1st and continue to see that investment as being economically attractive in the long term and we believe in the short term as well.

Our Tier 1 capital ratio closed the quarter at 8.25% up from 7.51% at March 31st. Although Countrywide will drive our Tier 1 capital ratio under 8% in the third quarter, we think we can continue to move back to an 8% range over two to three quarters. We measure capital strength from several perspectives including total shareholders equity of $163 billion as well as the allowance for loan losses of $17 billion plus.

As evidenced by some recent events I think we were all reminded that capital is only meaningful when viewed along with liquidity strength. We continue to maintain an abundance of liquidity at our holding company where our time to required funding has increased to 22 months, significantly higher than our competitors. Plus, we believe our deposit franchise leads others in mix, geographic scope, and size giving us a competitive stable funding advantage. Given these parameters, our outlook for the economy and our earnings potential, we have not changed our philosophy about the dividend. I will recommend to the Board that we maintain the current dividend of $0.64. Given our current economic outlook, we believe the drivers of earnings for the remainder of the year will be most of our core businesses along with a continued tight grip on expense levels across the company. Most importantly, we remain committed to serving our customers and clients while driving profitability during these tougher times.

With that, I will turn it over to Joe.

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken. Let me begin by elaborating a bit more on second quarter results before turning to credit quality, capital and Countrywide. Turning to GCIB and more specifically Capital Markets and Advisory Services. CMAS earned $449 million this quarter as revenues increased $2.6 billion from first quarter levels. Investment Banking fees were very good, up 15% from the first quarter and only down 7% from a year ago. Results reflect the success Brian Moynihan and his team have had in the short term staying focused in the challenging environment and taking advantage of market volatility, client flows and continued risk reduction. Total revenue in CMAS excluding investment banking fees or what we call Sales and Trading, was $1.2 billion, up $2.5 billion from the first quarter, as additional write downs were substantially less than we experienced in the first quarter. We would characterize market disruption charges this quarter as approximately $1.2 billion compared to $2.8 billion last quarter. These charges continue to be centered in CDO-related write downs and real estate as well a couple of other areas.

Let me start with leveraged lending where we ended the quarter with exposure of $10 billion, $4 billion unfunded and $6 billion funded, which was down $3.2 billion from March. The reduction since the end of March was driven by cash sales consistent with the past, meaning once again, no transfers to the accrual book. The unfunded portion generally represents new business at market terms. During the quarter we wrote down an additional $64 million versus $439 million in the first quarter as market pricing continued to stabilize due to increased liquidity. Legacy or pre-disruption exposure totaled $6.6 billion at June 30 of which $6 billion was funded. That $6 billion has already been reduced by over $1 billion since the end of June. For perspective, total leveraged exposure at September 30th of last year was over $32 billion. As a reminder, we don't have any covenant lite exposure of note and over 60% is senior secured

On the CMBS side we ended the quarter with $9.2 billion in exposure of which $8.5 billion is funded. More than 80% or approximately $7.6 billion is comprised of larger ticket floating rate debt most of which was acquisition related. The floating rate debt was written down by $100 million in the second quarter. As we said before, this product is difficult to hedge as compared to the remaining $1.6 billion of exposure, which is primarily fixed rate conduit product.

During the quarter we actually had a net gain of $39 million on the fixed rate exposure, $60 million in write-ups offset by $21 million in hedging losses. In a related matter, we recorded $184 million of losses associated with equity investments we made in acquisition related financing transactions in the past. There were several other legacy books where we continued to record losses but to a lesser extent compared to prior quarters given the reduced risk levels.

Finally, in the supplemental package you can see our CDO and subprime related exposure, along with the changes during the quarter where we recorded losses of $645 million. The losses were largely comprised of $450 million of super senior CDO write downs and a charge of approximately $200 million to reflect the counter party risk associated with our insured super senior positions. At the end of June, our net subprime super senior related exposure dropped to $3.5 billion from $5.9 billion at the end of March reflecting the write downs along with reductions of another $2 billion due to liquidations, cancellations and pay-downs. During the second quarter, liquidations resulted in us taking onto our books the underlying asset backed securities. This exposure is included on the schedule in the supplemental package along with the relevant information. Any losses subsequent to liquidation are included in the $645 million I referenced earlier

Now, with respect to overall disruption exposure, not just predisruption exposure, not just the CDO related, we remain subject to market price fluctuations, but we think the worst is behind us on value declines, as evidenced in our results for the quarter. This thinking is driven more by the size of our exposure, that being it is lower and the remaining collateral content, than a comment about future market volatility

Now, let me switch to credit quality. On a held basis, net charge-offs in the quarter increased 42 basis points from the first quarter to 1.67% of the portfolio or $3.6 billion. On a managed basis, overall consolidated net losses in the quarter increased 46 basis points to 2.15% of the managed loan portfolio or $5.3 billion. Managed net losses in the consumer portfolios were 2.82% versus 2.19% in the first quarter. Managed credit card losses continue to represent more than 60% of total consumer losses. Managed consumer credit card net losses as a percentage of the portfolio increased to 5.96% from 5.19% in the first quarter which is at the high end of the range of expectations we expressed last quarter. 30 day-plus delinquencies in managed consumer credit card decreased 8 basis points while 90 day-plus delinquencies decreased 1 basis point. While positive, this was due mainly to the seasonal trend we experience every year in card.

We have continued to see increased delinquencies in our card portfolio in those states most affected by the housing problems, while other states have actually shown some declines. California, Florida, Nevada and Arizona make up a little more than a quarter of our domestic consumer card book but represent about a third of the losses. As we have indicated before, we think the normalized loss rate in consumer credit card is 5% to 5.5%. However, we have also indicated that we could see 100 basis points over that under recessionary-type conditions. At this point, we do not foresee loss rates in excess of 100 basis points above the normalized range. Obviously, deterioration in the economy beyond that outlook could change that.

Credit quality in our consumer real estate business, primarily home equity, continued to deteriorate from the first quarter as a result of the weaker housing market. The problems to date have been centered in higher CLTV home equity loans particularly in states that have experienced significant decreases in home prices. Almost all of these states have been growth markets for the past several years. Our largest concentrations are in California and Florida which represents 41% of the home equity portfolio but 63% of the losses. Home equity net losses increased to $923 million or 3.08%, up from 1.71% in the prior quarter. 30 day performing delinquencies decreased 6 basis points to 1.27 % while NPAs were almost flat which is definitely positive but as we know one quarter doesn't signify a sustainable outlook.

Consistent with the prior quarter, 82% of net charge-offs related to loans where the borrower was delinquent and had little or no equity in the home. Loans with a greater than 90% CLTV on a refreshed basis currently represent 35% of loans versus 26% in the first quarter. This change reflects the continued decline in home prices, most acutely in the states I noted earlier. Like others in the industry, a large piece of the deterioration is centered in acquired portfolios not originated through the franchise, a practice we discontinued in the second quarter of 2007. These purchased loans represent only 3% of the portfolio but 21% of the net losses. Excluding these losses, the net loss rate would be 2.53% for the second quarter versus the reported 3.08% for the total portfolio. We believe net charge-offs in home equity will continue to rise given softness in real estate values and seasoning in the portfolio. We increased reserves for this portfolio to 314 basis points reflecting a continued elevated level of loss severities. We have instituted a number of initiatives to mitigate risk in new originations as well as existing exposure, including lowering maximum CLTVs across both geography and borrower, and actively managing credit lines. So while our view does not call for this, the loss rate could approach or even cross the 4% mark if conditions deteriorate beyond our outlook

Our residential mortgage portfolio on a managed basis showed an increase in net losses to $151 million or 23 basis points for the quarter. We have seen some deterioration in sub-segments, namely our Community Reinvestment Act portfolio that totals some 8% of the residential book. Additionally, California and Florida, which comprises 41% of the balances, drove 58% of the net losses. The annualized loss rate from the CRA book was 91 basis points and represented 29% of the residential mortgage net charge-offs. Now, although approximately $132 billion or 56% of our residential mortgage portfolio carries risk mitigation protection, it does not cover our CRA portfolio. Of the $132 billion, approximately 91% is protected where we sell mezzanine risk exposures to cash collateralized structures, thereby leaving us with no counter party risk. The remaining 9% is protected by GSEs.

We currently see some level of continued deterioration as evidenced by our decision to increase reserves to 34 basis points. Assuming additional deterioration in the economy beyond our outlook, it wouldn't surprise us to see loss rates between 40 and 50 basis points by the end of the year. Again, as we said with home equity and card, worsening economic conditions beyond our outlook could change that view.

Our auto portfolio at the end of June was about $28 billion in loans. Net losses in the quarter were $82 million or an annualized 1.26% of the portfolio which is actually down 39 basis points or $19 million from the first quarter related to seasonal trends.

Switching to our commercial portfolios, net charge-offs increased in the quarter to $694 million or 84 basis points, up 15 basis points from the first quarter. Most of the deterioration is driven by small business and to a lesser extent, home builders, with the other portfolios remaining relatively sound. For example, commercial excluding small business and commercial real estate had a net charge-off rate of 13 basis points, flat with the first quarter. Net losses in small business, which are reported as commercial loan losses, are up $113 million from the first quarter and the net charge-off rate has risen to 9.53%. As we have discussed before, many of the issues in small business relate to the rapid growth of the portfolio over the past few years which is now compounded by current economic trends.

As we also highlighted, we have since instituted a number of underwriting changes in small business such as increasing the level of judgmental credit decisioning, lowering initial line assignments and changing our direct mail offerings. These actions have resulted in an increase in average FICO at origination, a reduction in average line amounts and a meaningful drop in approval rates. More recent vintages are showing the positive impact of these actions and while we expect higher charge-offs in the near term as evidenced by our reserve levels, we expect the small business portfolio to stabilize during 2009. While it will take some time to work through these earlier vintages, small business remains a critical customer segment with attractive, profitable growth opportunities.

Excluding small business, commercial net charge-offs increased $25 million from the first quarter to $217 million representing a net charge-off ratio of 28 basis points. The majority of the increase was due to commercial real estate, mainly homebuilders. Approximately 60% of the $217 million relates to homebuilders. Criticized utilized exposure, excluding available for sale and fair value loans, increased $5.6 billion from the end of March of which nearly half was driven by commercial real estate, again principally homebuilders, and the final stages of integrating of the LaSalle portfolio into our credit processes. Non real estate and non LaSalle loan and derivative exposures drove the remainder of the criticized utilized increase. This increase was pretty broad based rising from very low 2007 levels. Commercial NPAs rose $1.1 billion to $4.1 billion. As we saw last quarter, additional commercial NPAs were mostly in commercial real estate, mainly homebuilders. Utilized homebuilder exposure was down to $13 billion from $14 billion at the end of March and total exposure declined to $19 billion. 57% of our homebuilder outstandings is listed as criticized and although pressured, we still believe, as we said last quarter, the portfolio is well collateralized.

While we expect to see a continuation of an elevated level of charge-offs, we believe this will be manageable. Looking again at the total loan book, 90-day performing past due on a managed basis increased 5 basis points to 79 basis points while 30-day performing past due increased 2 basis points to 2.37%. As Ken said, second quarter provision of $5.8 billion exceeded net charge-offs, resulting in the addition of $2.2 billion to the reserve. Approximately 80% of the reserve increase was due to portfolios directly tied to housing, principally home equity, and to a lesser extent, residential mortgage and homebuilder. The rest of the increase was due to growth and seasoning mainly in the consumer unsecured lending portfolio coupled with some stress from the slower economy. Our reserve now stands at $17.1 billion or 1.98% of our loan and lease portfolio.

Okay, let me get off of credit quality and say a couple of things about net interest income. Compared to first quarter on a managed and FTE basis, net interest income was up $ 810 million of which core, excluding trading-related, represented $749 million. The increase in core NII was driven by increased margins in the current rate environment, loan growth and deposit growth. The core net interest margin on a managed basis increased 19 basis points over first quarter to 3.86% due to the positive impact of wider spreads. As you can see from the bubble chart, at June 30 our interest rate risk position is a little more liability sensitive relative to the June 30 forward curves when compared to the end of March. As of June 30, we felt the market expectations of rate increases were a bit aggressive which influenced our positioning. We should continue to benefit from curve steepening, especially from a short-end led steepening, which is what we have experienced over the last several months. I should note that because of the Fed Funds/Libor spread widening we haven't had as much benefit as we otherwise anticipated.

Let me say a few things about capital. Tier 1 capital at the end of June was 8.25% up from 7.51% at the end of the March due mainly to the $6.9 billion of capital we raised during the quarter. As we indicated to you last quarter, we have reduced risk weighted assets in our capital markets area by around $30 billion to be more efficient in our use of capital. Going forward you should expect preferred dividends to be approximately $472 million in the third quarter and approximately $422 million in the fourth quarter. Our tax rate this quarter, excluding the FTE impact, was 30.7% which is lower than the normal range due to our periodic true-up of the effective tax rate for the year. Finally, all our forward looking comments up to now apply specifically to Bank of America before the addition of Countrywide.

Let me switch and talk about Countrywide for a few moments. We closed the acquisition of Countrywide on July 1st so its impacts won't be reflected if our combined results until we report third quarter earnings in October. We issued approximately 106 million Bank of America shares at an exchange rate of 0.1822 Bank of America shares for each Countrywide share. As required, the shares issued in the transaction will be recorded for accounting purposes at the value as of the day of the announcement or $4.1 billion versus Countrywide's July 1st tangible capital of $8.4 billion which excludes our preferred.

In our supplemental material, we have included a preliminary P&L and balance sheet for Countrywide reflecting second quarter results. As you can see, total assets at Countrywide at the end of June were $172 billion, mortgage loans held for investment were $99 billion, deposits were $63 billion and total equity was around $10 billion which included our preferred of $2 billion. The data on Countrywide we are providing today is a preliminary overview as Countrywide's ordinary and usual review process for analyzing the numbers continues. Once Countrywide's results are fully completed, Countrywide Financial Corporation will file a Form 10-Q for the second quarter, so there will be additional information on the second quarter in that report. Obviously, their second quarter results, a loss of $2.3 billion, were significantly impacted by continued credit deterioration. Credit costs included in the second quarter were comprised of credit provision, which included reps and warranties, impairment of available for sale securities, and other smaller items which totaled just under $4 billion pretax. I will come back to this in a minute, but much of this type cost, as it relates to the future and to the extent it can be, will get recorded in purchase accounting so it will have a much lower impact. Mortgage originations during the quarter were $59 billion vs. $73 billion in the first quarter and $133 billion a year ago. Driving the decrease from the first quarter was a reduction in refi activity that had spiked during what I guess you could call a mini refi boom in the first quarter. Refi activity dropped 35% in the first quarter to $33 billion while purchased transactions jumped 23% to $25 billion. Activity at Bank of America showed similar trends with refi down 21% at $10 billion and purchased up 34% to $12 billion.

Under purchase accounting, we will mark Countrywide's balance sheet to fair value levels as of July 1, our acquisition date. The impact of these purchase accounting adjustments will be included in our third quarter financial statements that we will share with you in October.

Now, let me give you some preliminary purchase accounting estimates around some of the largest exposures, realizing that they will probably change somewhat as they are finalized. Our estimate at this time on the loan portfolio would be a loss exposure of approximately 15.6% or $14.3 billion for the held-for-investment portfolio as of the end of June. Factoring in charge-offs already taken of $1.7 billion, this represents a cumulative loss estimate of just over 17%. Obviously the marks are highest for subprime, option arms and home equity and lowest for the prime first mortgages. From a product standpoint, the percentage marks range from a preliminary high in the mid 20s to a low in the single digits. All but about $1 billion of this loss exposure will be recorded in purchase accounting. The $1 billion reflects loss exposure on non-impaired loans greater than Countrywide's allowance for loan loss. If incurred, that amount will flow through our consolidated earnings over a number of years.

After considering the existing $5.1 billion allowance for loan losses at Countrywide and excluding the $1 billion I just mentioned, the additional credit mark on the loan book before tax is estimated to be $8.1 billion. In determining these preliminary marks, we assume peak to trough home price depreciation of 25% to 30% including estimated deprecation in Florida and California in the high 30s to just over 40%. We've tried to give you some pertinent stats on the portfolio and the material and we will provide more details as the marks continue to be finalized but this should give you some understanding of our relative view at this point. Needless to say, the loss exposure, while within the range of our initial expectations, is clearly on the higher side due principally to the continued economic weakness and decline in housing prices.

Other significant marks include re-evaluating the mortgage servicing rights, the repurchase reserves and various other items such as the adjustment of deferred loan origination fees, deferred currency gains and other miscellaneous costs and liabilities. There are several items that can not be recorded under purchase accounting rules. These include the future loan loss exposure I just mentioned, certain litigation exposure and a portion of the reps and warranties exposure. Let me finish with purchase accounting before I discuss how those items will impact future earnings. All-in our preliminary estimates total a net pretax write down of $12 billion to $13 billion which when tax effected and compared to the preliminary June 30 Countrywide tangible common equity results in goodwill of approximately $4 billion. This number also includes our estimate of capitalized restructuring costs. You can see from the material our updated restructuring cost of $1.2 billion after tax is consistent with our initial estimates. Currently, we believe around $400 million will be capitalized in purchase accounting with the remainder or $800 million flowing through the income statement as restructuring expense through 2010.

Assuming these shares issued on July 1 pretty much offset our preliminary estimate of goodwill, net capital used in the transaction on a consolidated basis would be that required to be allocated to the Countrywide assets, after write downs. Given the size of the balance sheet after the markdowns, adding Countrywide to Bank of America on a proforma basis would reduce our Tier 1 capital by approximately 65 basis points. Estimated risk weighted assets from Countrywide following purchase accounting adjustments are around $125 billion.

While we originally envisioned selling a large block of loans shortly after the transaction closed, the markets are not currently conducive to such a sale so we will table that idea for now. As a reminder, we closed the quarter with Tier 1 at 8.25% and have continued plans to strengthen our Tier 1 during the third quarter through earnings, the sale of Prime Brokerage and continued management of trading and other asset levels as well as several other initiatives.

While I am not going to predict Tier 1 levels at the end of September, I will reiterate what Ken said earlier and say that we feel pretty good about our ability to manage back towards our 8% target over the next 2 to 3 quarters without having to take significant capital actions to get there. Obviously, future factors could change that opinion, most notably the economy.

From an earnings perspective, we believe Countrywide on a GAAP basis will be accretive to Bank of America earnings for the second half of '08 and through '09 including the restructuring charge. The restructuring charge for the rest of '08 impacting the P&L is estimated to be under $200 million after tax. We won't be any more specific about the impact on '09 earnings until we announce our earnings in January. Now, embedded in our earnings outlook for the next few years are the assumptions for the exposures I mentioned earlier that aren't captured in purchase accounting - litigation, excess credit losses, and reps and warranties to name the more notable ones or a portion of those.

Let me give you a little more idea of how we are looking at the legal exposure. Although Countrywide did have some legal reserves on the balance sheet, we have assumed additional exposure over a number of years. Our people, along with two major outside law firms plus various consultants, have conducted a thorough due diligence to size the likely magnitude of the exposure. This work was initially performed in due diligence but has been continually updated. Our approach was to be realistic, not optimistic and focus on pending and potential claims, realizing that many of these exposures are represented principally by claims in very early stages. It is obviously impossible to predict the exact outcome of the various claims at this stage, but based on our review, we have sized the exposure, considered it in our analysis, and feel it is manageable. We plan to defend any claims vigorously in order to minimize the litigation expense. We will accrue litigation expense quarterly as any losses become probable and capable of estimation.

With respect to the other exposures I referenced, which are primarily credit based exposures, we applied the same basic assumptions I went over when describing our loan portfolio marks. I mentioned restructuring costs earlier so let me update you on cost saves we expect to achieve. We expect to exceed our original target of $670 million after tax by about a third to $900 million and expect to realize over 10% this year. We have received a lot of questions about Countrywide's public debt. All I can say at this point is we don't intend to guarantee the public debt but we do understand the ramifications of not paying at maturity. We will keep you informed as we continue to integrate the Countrywide transaction

Now going forward in 2008, let me piggy back on what Ken said and reiterate there's considerable uncertainty about the economic environment. It still remains unclear what future impact the housing downturn, higher energy and commodity costs and the subprime crisis will ultimately have and how long the downturn will persist but let me reiterate we feel good about a relative position in our businesses versus the competition. Loan and deposit growth generated by the franchise along with the steeper curve are still expected to benefit net interest income in the short term. We believe growth will continue in noninterest income from our consumer businesses and as we demonstrated this quarter, we think CMAS has turned the corner and is producing good results. Consumer credit quality will continue as a head wind due to what appears to be further deterioration in housing and its subsequent impact on consumer asset quality. Similarly, we would expect to see challenges in the consumer dependent sectors of our commercial portfolios. Given this scenario we would expect net credit losses to be at least at levels we experienced in the second quarter. On the expense side, we are aiming for improved operating efficiency and heavy expense control as well as savings realized from the LaSalle integration and now, Countrywide.

With that, let me open it up to questions and we thank you for your attention.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Our first question comes from Meredith Whitney with Oppenheimer. Your line is now open.

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: I have two questions on credit quality. The first is on the foreclosed property. In fact, I have more broad questions - - but on the foreclosed property, you see material deceleration and you don't see that in the national numbers, granted those are lagged. Can you comment on what you are seeing in that trend? And my second question is you have a great chart on the commercial exposures and the draw downs and line limits. Can you provide color on the commercial side of that just in comparison, please?

KEVIN STITT: Let me start on the first one. You may have to remind me on the second one. But from a first of all, as you might imagine our first and foremost goal is to keep people in their homes as opposed to going through the foreclosure process. So if you look at our restructurings and/or workouts, as a percent of total people that go delinquent, they are increasing as a percentage of the total. But having said that, the number of customers going delinquent is also increasing. From an actual foreclosure standpoint, our foreclosure process and taking on REO and distributing ROE, the numbers are actually increasing. We are in fact distributing more properties or selling more properties but the inflow of properties into that is still accelerating at a slightly higher pace. Net - net we are seeing growth in the foreclosed property category if you were to look at any particular point in time given where we are in this cycle. On the commercial loans side, I guess you are speaking to what kind of utilizations we are seeing and then what (multiple speakers).

MEREDITH WHITNEY: You show a very detailed table on the commercial side. I am interested on the consumer side your experience with line reductions and then draw downs.

JOE PRICE: Okay. I -- let me focus on home equity because I think that's probably the place that, that is most applicable. If you looked at our, at our unfunded exposure at the beginning of the quarter compared to the end of the quarter we were about 50/50 funded to unfunded at the beginning of the quarter. At the end of the quarter that had swayed more towards funded but it was driven as much by, - - or it was driven by three or four things, one growth, we did continue to see growth in new customers for both the funded and the unfunded components. We did see draws that netted some $3 billion coming out of unfunded into funded and then we had line reductions and pay downs coupled with our charge offs that drove the remainder of that reduction. So all in, the utilization rate is not that different but that's the components of what drove it.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. Just one final question for Ken. There's been a rot of activity in the past month in terms of Fannie Mae proposals and short (inaudible) selling changes. I just wanted to get your perspective on that and then a larger perspective on the industry and sort of how far we are if terms of what the government is doing, I know there's a larger question. But what the Government is doing [bottom] on this.

KEN LEWIS: Meredith, first of all I think what the treasury and federal reserve are proposing are absolutely necessary, the thing to do and I hope Congress approves them very, very quickly. Because I can't think of a larger systemic risk than the GSEs. We have got to restore confidence in them and this is a way to do it.

With regard to the industry, I don't pay as much attention to the rest of the industry as I do our clients and customers and us. I'm not a member of all of these industry organizations etc. So I don't know a lot about what's happening in other institutions. But what - - as I said in the comments what we see at the moment absent something, you know, a severe disruption, we see as manageable, and see things improving sequentially. So from our perspective, we have a ray of optimism now that we probably haven't had for a few quarters.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: All right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mike Mayo with Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: All right. Good morning.

KEN LEWIS: Good morning.

MIKE MAYO: First on capital, the goodwill of $4 billion, what had you expected that to be? As you said, the write downs are higher. I don't recall the goodwill there.

JOE PRICE: We hadn't disclosed anything earlier, Mike because it was so early amd we knew the level of uncertain in the marketplace. But I guess I would say as I mentioned in the earlier comments that that was on the higher end of that. I don't know that I ever expected negative goodwill. So that ought to range it for you.

MIKE MAYO: And book value is kind of flat despite the earnings. I guess unrealized security losses went up. Could you size that?

JOE PRICE: Most, yes, if you look at our OCI, it was relatively flat. We had some pick up because we, as I mentioned I think in the last call our strategic investment in Brazil actually has gone to one year prior to the restriction lapsing. So that came in as a positive but our agency backed mortgage backed securities because of what you're seeing and spread widening in the market, pulled the other way and that is what kept it reasonably flat.

MIKE MAYO: And pro forma book value with Coountrywide.

JOE PRICE: I don't have it handy in front of me. Kevin can you --?

KEVIN STITT: We will get back to you.

JOE PRICE: You can come back to me and I'll give you a view.

MIKE MAYO: And then, credit quality, you said expect credit losses to be higher than in the second quarter. That's not exactly going out on a limb. Can you give any more kind of range for that or kind of what you are thinking? It sounds like you were thinking home equity might be a little bit worse than you thought before or just give a little color if you could.

JOE PRICE: What I tried to do because all of these portfolios have such different characteristics. Mike, what I try to do, in speaking to each of those portfolios, was one give you in the supplemental package what we reserve to. So that can give you a view as to our most current view but also if the economy continues to deteriorate I tried to size that for you a little bit with those prepared comments on each one. I think that's the best way to go about it and for you to be thinking about it because that's how we think about it.

MIKE MAYO: Maybe just a more general comment for you or for Ken. So far you have seen problems related to real estate, residential and commercial. It hasn't gone crazy outside of those areas. Where are you most concerned outside of real estate? Is the consumer getting much weaker? Are we going to be here in two quarters from now, and you are say we just didn't see it coming?

KEN LEWIS: Well, I think we've said before, some time in the next two to three quarters, we do in fact think that consumer losses will peak. To the extent that happens, then we are in pretty good shape. The thing for us at least, Mike, is that as we see the, as we see the increases in charge offs coming at us, they're really very manageable. If we can just start diminishing these big reserve bills and these big losses on CEOs and leverage loans, which we see happening, then you can see then that the earnings power of this Company starts to really show through.

MIKE MAYO: One last follow up. Last quarter you said well maybe the dividend would be at risk depending on how things play out. Now you are saying you are recommending keeping the dividend where it is. What has gotten better than what you expected before?

KEN LEWIS: Earnings tripled, and even after preferred, the number I think is $3.224 billion or something. So, that is, that is the reason. But I have tried to be balanced and say that obviously, you have to, as you look forward, be aware that things could change dramatically and in this day and time it is hard to be unequivocal on but again, the thing is that different from the last two quarters is we are now starting to really show some significant income and we would the most profitable financial services company in the United States this quarter. At that gives me some reason for optimism.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Matt O'Connor with UBS. Your line is now open.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, Ken, Joe. I know the tangible common ratio is not one that you focus on, but pr forma for Countrywide I am getting around 2.6%, 2.7%. Is that a level that you are comfortable with?

JOE PRICE: The shares issued, think of the shares issued in the Countrywide deal as creating common tangible equity that pretty much offsets the goodwill as we talked about earlier. It really just is the added asset base coming off of Countrywide, which as I mentioned, is probably a little higher than what we would run on a normalized basis once you get out of a disruption period. When you consider all of those factors together, we're pretty comfortable.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. So we shouldn't expect any common equity raise or anything like that -- maybe some preferred if the market opens but nothing meaningful?

JOE PRICE: As we said earlier, the whole, the game plan, given the outlook Ken described earlier absent some unforeseen event, is to migrate back to our tier 1 target over the next two to three quarters, and obviously that's done principally with retained earning generation which is common, which in essence is common.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then just separately a lot of good details on the Countrywide. On page 35, there's all other charges of $4.6 billion. I'm just wondering what makes up the bulk of that?

JOE PRICE: A lot of the other items that I referenced that weren't separately broken out. Again, all of these are preliminary but you have got rate marks on various assets and liabilities, you've got some incremental components of reps and warranties, you've got miscellaneous things around the insurance operations. It is a laundry list but no individual item rises to the level of significant of those others we broke out.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just lastly, very good transaction deposit growth while some of the CDs rolled off a bit. What is driving that and should we expect more of this mix change going forward?

KEN LEWIS: Focus. It is, we decided to make that one of our top prioriteis at the beginning of the year. I don't think it is anything more than that. You can see from rates that we are not leading on rates, and it is just prioritization, frankly, Matt.

MATT O'CONNOR: Are you picking up any commercial deposits from some other banks that might be pulling credit lines and things like that?

KEN LEWIS: We are picking up commercial deposits. I can't identify exactly, you know, why, to that degree. But we certainly have good deposit growth there too.

MATT O'CONNOR: All right. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Nancy Bush with NAB Research, LLC. Your line is now open.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH, LLC.: Hi. A couple of questions here. Joe, if you could just give us in rough terms what LaSalle added, particularly to net interest income and if you could just update us a little bit on what is going on there as far as integration et cetera.

JOE PRICE: Yes. On the integration front, the end of the third quarter bleeding into the fourth quarter is our biggest component of integration. We actually got our customer day one off this past quarter was very successful, et cetera but the big systems conversions are still coming at us.

From a performance standpoint, Nancy, I would say that cost saves are larger and more rapid than we thought. Core operating earnings from the, from the institution are probably a little weaker given the market disruption especially the Capital Markets related component or the wholesale related component given what has gone on in the markets, but volumes and some of the mortgage type products, home equity type product obviously given again the economic environment. But the deposit franchise and other components of consumer are very strong as we expected. I don't, we kind of divided this thing up and put it into the individual business units so there's not a precise measurement to be able to do it. We are still very comfortable it is accretive I but I don't an exact number because it has now been split up and put out into various units. From a period to period standpoint, I think if you look at linked quarter, you can take that, the acquisition noise out as opposed to looking year-over-year and that's probably the best place I would guide you to.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you. Ken, a couple of questions for you. This is just an add on to the Washington question. The thing that are being done there seem to be being done on an ad hoc basis, i.e. in response to whatever crisis arises that week. Are you getting any - - are Paulson, Bernanke, etc. soliciting any input from the banking industry particularly from the major CEOs like yourself about a plan going forward?

KEN LEWIS: I hope (inaudible) Paulson won't mind me saying this but I talked to him Saturday morning and I assume I'm not the only one he's talking to. So, they really are, and I also am on a thing called the Federal Reserve Advisory Board that we see the fed once a quarter, and they do ask for our input and they are trying to think broadly. I know what you said seems that way, but to the extent they can, they're thinking very broadly.

NANCY BUSH: You weren't responsible for his going on the Sunday morning talk shows yesterday, were you, in saying we face months of trouble?

KEN LEWIS: No, I don't have any control over (inaudible).

NANCY BUSH: And I guess that there would be sort of an add on question to that. You are one of the more optimistic I think on consumer credit quality trends peaking over in the next two to three quarters. Either Joe or Ken, if you could just give us what you're looking at to say that. Is it 90 days past dues, is it delinquencies? What gives you that much more optimism than seems to be existing in the rest of the industry?

KEN LEWIS: I will start and then I will let Joe follow up. First of all, it does seem like even when you are trying to give a reasoned balanced view of things, there's so much cynicism and negative thought out there, Nancy that you sound "Pollyanna-ish" despite the fact you are not trying to be. And we have some pretty good ability to predict the largest driver of our charge offs, and that's credit card side. I mean the team there are just very good at doing that. We have been within a pretty good realm of an ability to predict that. That is the future losses, home equity obviously the pace has surprised us. That's where we have done a lot of work. We are doing a lot more collection work than we ever have, putting a lot more people on the issue than we have before and obviously we have changed our policies, and we think some of that will start to start showing some gains with some ability to mitigate some of these losses. We are still predicting them to be higher, but we don't, we just don't think the pace at which they have increased will continue and we saw a little bit of that from first quarter, I mean fourth quarter to first and then now first quarter to second and so we see a little bit of that dramatic rise in the pace of the charge offs to be losing steam and we think that will continue throughout the rest of this year.

NANCY BUSH: Does that apply to small business as well? I realize that's a small piece of the company, but that has been really amazing.

KEN LEWIS: No. That would be, that would be an exception, Nancy. We, and fortunately it is not a big piece, but we see that continuing into 2009.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Ed Najarian with Merrill Lynch. Your line is now open.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. Two specific questions, one would be for Joe and one for Ken. The first has to do with the commercial loan loss reserve. It seems like, I noticed that the reserve ratio on commercial lending, specifically declined by a few basis points in the quarter. Yet, we see, pretty large increases in commercial NPA within the meaning PA as well as commercial criticized exposure. I was wondering if you could just comment on why not much reserve build and an actual decline in the reserve ratio there when you are seeing such large increases on MPA and criticized on the commercial side. And does that forebode some noticeable increase in commercial charge off ratio, other than what you have talked about already on the small business side?

JOE PRICE: Well, first of all we have reserves including the small business commercial piece pretty aggressively over the last two or three quarters as Nancy implied with our question a few minutes ago. From take that out for a minute, and we did continue to add to our commercial real estate, commercial reserves during the quarter. But it was a little more of a reallocation of some excess that we felt we were carrying given the underlying on the rest of the portfolio. Then when you are looking at that total ratio, go back to your base our outstanding grow pretty good. We continue to be out there doing business and quite frankly have seen, as Ken referenced in his comments, some pretty good growth in the health care kind of insurance nonprofit et cetera group grew with the market disruptions and the ARS securities and things like that. We have been more of a solid provider for people and municipalities and other during that period. We quite frankly have seen less people at the party on some other very good business. Some of the overall ratio is driven by the balance in loans.

KEN LEWIS: I would also say we try to get a leal of preciseness that sometimes drives me crazy, so do the analysts at times but the reserve is $17 billion. And I think that defies at some point preciseness to the decimal point.

ED NAJARIAN: I guess I was referring to I am looking at a commercial reserve ratio that or commercial reserve level on a dollar amount that was pretty flat quarter to quarter. And that, and then, and that's I think excluding anything at that went into the small business area. Yet, again we see these big increases in criticized exposure and MPAs on the commercial side and again excluding the small business.

JOE PRICE: All I can tell you is we are comfortable with that reserve level as Ken said kind of detailed analysis that is driven by all of the underlying credit quality parameters, kind of loan by loan scenario with all of our knowledge and we feel good about that. We have talked about the areas where we feel the ebbing pose your is the greatest, i.e. home builder trying to give you the parameters around there. We feel good about the quality of that portfolio, especially relative to others. That's kind of how we do it. I don't have anything more to add to it than the global overall coverage.

KEN LEWIS: It is kind of like the issue of trying to estimate the CDO write downs. In this you would have to know every single loan and every single risk, it is impossible to come up with a bank by bank equivalent.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. I think you mentioned, I can't remember the exact ratio. But you mentioned, excluding residential construction and small business, that your commercial loss ratio was I think I recall in the low teens.

JOE PRICE: Yes, it is on the slide we gave you. It shows it at 13 basis point.

ED NAJARIAN: Basis points. How sustainable is that or any context on that the next 12 months?

JOE PRICE: That's a very low ratio for as big of a book as we have got. It wouldn't be surprised to see that up a little bit but we don't see a ton of things coming can at us at this point that would cause any material change in that but we need be realistic about the economy and weakness in the economy. There will be some activity, but there shouldn't be any precipitous change in it.

ED NAJARIAN: And then, second quick question for Ken, would you be willing to give us any color on what your plans are starting in the fourth quarter of '08 with respect to liquidating some of your CCB ownership and your view there?

KEN LEWIS: I would be willing to tell you that it is going to be a long-term significant strategic relationship and we will always have a significant ownership position.

ED NAJARIAN: Is there any kind of a, is it reasonable to take the view that as we see you exercise some of your options position that that could be to have some correlation with the amount of liquidation we might see in the underlying original investment?

KEN LEWIS: No.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus. Your line is now open.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Ed got to my question first, but maybe but a different parameter in terms of dollar amounts. When I look at the MPA on the consumer portfolio they were up $800 million this quarter and you built the reserves 2.2 billion. If I look at the MPO on the commercial portfolio they were up $1.1 billion and the reserve build there was less than 50. So do, does, I guess the question is does the peak or the less severe loss maybe coming from the consumer portfolios in the coming quarters, do they get offset by rising, I guess by an increased need to start building the commercial portfolio there for, excuse me, not commercial portfolio but commercial reserves and therefore the provision expense is maintained for the next several quarters.

JOE PRICE: Not necessarily. Remember that and I had this in the opening comments, you probably need to go back and look at them. But we continue to migrate our LaSalle portfolio into our credit process, that drove a pretty good size component of the increase in both the criticized and MPA numbers in there. So take that into consideration too. But back to your question, again not necessarily. We reserve now for what we foresee in the commercial portfolio as required under GAAP and also is our view. So not necessarily unless we were to see further deterioration beyond our current expectations.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Jason Goldberg with Lehman Brothers, your line is now open.

JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. Sorry if you missed this but it looks like you went up on the value from $4.24 from $3.2 billion. I guess was there a corresponding hedge offset or just more color there.

JOE PRICE: Pretty much offset. Actually, I think overall servicing income was a little lower this quarter due the net number.

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. And then secondly, I think Ken, I think in a speech a couple of weeks ago you made the comment that you thought and sorry if I get to wrong, nonperformers actually peak in the third quarter. Is that correct and do you still feel that way?

KEN LEWIS: I have never said, never commented on nonperformers.

JASON GOLDBERG: Or losses maybe or no?

KEN LEWIS: No. I had said that, that as I think I said it in response to a question, that the, that we thought credit, excuse me, consumer credit losses would peak either late this year or possibly in the first quarter. But that's, I mean that's our assessment at the moment.

JASON GOLDBERG: And that's helpful.

KEN LEWIS: Losses not MPAs.

JASON GOLDBERG: Got you. And then I guess just lastly, I guess why not guarantee the Countrywide debt? Given if you fully intend to pay it?

JOE PRICE: I don't really have anything beyond what we had said before. But I will make all determinations on that as we consider options of migrating to the operating environment we want to be in and how to drive best efficiencies and run that business. That's when we will make those determinations.

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jefferson Harralson with KBW. Your line is now open.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KBW: A couple of questions about Countrywide. As you get in there and looked at their accounting, is there any accounting changes you are making being more aggressive on delinquencies, MPAs or anything like that.

JOE PRICE: You know, there will be a number of conforming accounting adjustments just which are typical in any merger we go through. But they're most of the changes regarding how we are running the business have been previously announced or reiterated kind of in the package today and obviously any accounting will follow those, but there's not any really big significant items in terms of what point you take charge offs and things like that. Now acquired loans this large, when you value impaired loans in an acquisition. That's a statement of position, '03, 03, so that will have a little different [op] dates that we'll have to provide you more detail around so you will be able to see the underlying as well as the kind of net impact on us as a company given the purchase accounting adjustment. But that's not a change as much as that's the application of purchase accounting.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: You are talking about the reserve will look optically lower because the loans are coming over at mark down without a reserve?

JOE PRICE: That is one attribute and there's several others too.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Okay. If you talk about the warranty reserve, that is going to into a purchase accounting adjustment. How much of a purchase accounting has been occurred because of warranties?

JOE PRICE: All of the purchase accounting adjustments we showed you are preliminary. They show some adjustment as does my comments about you know, their possible claims post that arise later that we will need to consider. But we have broken out everything that we have you know, that at this point we have finalized enough to be able to present to you.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: So this is in the 4.6 billion all other?

JOE PRICE: Looking at Kevin, I think that's where it is.

KEVIN STITT: Along with a multitude of other items.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: All right. Lastly, on the just the accounting of how this goes forward, you have assumed so far, about 14.5% or 15% cumulative loss rate on the Countrywide portfolio.

JOE PRICE: No, no. We, but if you add the one that is have already been taken it is like 17.3%. That's what you should look at.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Okay. Thank you. On the 17.3% as long as that loss estimate is on par to quarter you won't show any provision or losses to the income statement in Q3 or Q4?

JOE PRICE: Correct.

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Okay. Thanks a lot.

JOE PRICE: New production and nonimpaired we will have to consider which is what I referenced earlier but if that are block of loans, that's correct.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. On the point regarding the Countrywide debt where you indicated you know, you understand the ramifications of not paying, it is kind of open ended. I just wonder if you could clarify a little bit what your implications are there.

JOE PRICE: We don't really have anything else to add to what I said earlier or responded to earlier. We will continue to work through the process and when we decide what the ultimate legal entity structures look like, how we want to operate it, we will let will you know, but that's where we are right now.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Is there a possibility you might at some point fully bring the CFC subsidiary into the Bank of America?

JOE PRICE: Haven't made any decisions on that.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. On CDOs have you indicated how the insurance is, who's covering you on that?

JOE PRICE: Not specifically but I will tell you because you charge a charge for -- we talked about the CDOs component. Most of our insured exposure is high grade exposure to start with. It is covered by full line insurers all the way down to some mono lines, obviously the charge we have taken is on the component that is covered by mono lines. And that really is reflective, I think it was just around 200 million this quarter cumulatively on the, on the particular mono line exposure if you used the exact same valuation process that we have used for the direct CDOs come up with a receivable and consider that, we probably reserved somewhere around half of that mono line per se receivable if you want to call it that.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then just lastly on the trading revenues in your supplement you have got the breakout between the fixed income products and clearly you had an extremely strong quarter this quarter. I am just wondering how much of this in your opinion is from some of the key drivers or customer acquisition, spread tightening, increased capital associated, you know, with the business. So taking more risks et cetera.

JOE PRICE: Well, if you look at the details you will see it is across the board except restructured products where we had continued disruption charges but on, on the FX rates, on, you know, that is clearly the strong point and if you look quarter remember we had a pretty good size charge last quarter. So performance is actually pretty consistent, strongly consistent quarter to quarter even though it looks to be up there. I think you know, the volatility in the market and so I would say, you know, make any customer flows although clearly some ability to pick up some just given the positioning in the market.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So you would think that this line item is really more a function of change in market volatility and spreads than new customer acquisition.

JOE PRICE: Why yeah. Bryan is probably on line, he would shoot me if I said it was sustainable because it is a high hurdle. We clearly good about going forward, feel pretty good about it. Not suggesting that we can always perform at that level, but --

KEVIN STITT: But no, there's increased client activity, too.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning. I know the Share National credit exam just finished at the end of June but was curious if you have had any initial feedback on the results of that exam, in terms of the classified trends and what level of reserves or provisions may need to be taken for that?

JOE PRICE: Not specifically to the Share National but overall you can see our results and all of that is consider because at the individual institution's that exam has been completed.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Thanks very much.

JOE PRICE: So no new shoes to drop so to speak.

JOE MORFORD: Right.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Ron Mandell with GIC. Your line is now open.

RON MANDELL, ANALYST, GIC: Thanks. Ken, you said in answer to an earlier question, you thought that consumer charge offs would peak late this year or in the first quarter of next year.

KEN LEWIS: Right.

RON MANDELL: I was wondering if you could elaborate on that. What I am concerned about is you are talking about HPD continuing and, in one of the charges you show the percentage of home equity that is refreshed over 90% and single family over 90%. A big increase in quarter, and it would seem to me that would imply that the losses would continue well into '09. So, and you also mentioned that credit card losses would go higher. So, just wondering if you could expand on that because it just seems to me that we are not at the, we don't see the disability of the end of the negative trends which would as a second step imply the peak in charge offs.

KEN LEWIS: Well, I guess, HDD housing depreciation?

RON MANDELL: Yeah, housing price depreciation. HPD. Sorry.

KEN LEWIS: The, well, I would, if you think about our thoughts about the economy and the fact we see sluggishness but not, but not a recession and that we see some improvement beginning in the beginning in 2009, and that we see housing price depreciation being mostly over this year, maybe going into next year, that would be kind of consistent with what we see in there for, in the charge off peak.

RON MANDELL: So, there wouldn't be a lag so even if house prices bottomed, fourth quarter of this year there wouldn't be a lag for the damage that had already occurred. Are you talking about the peak quarterly rate of charge offs when you make comment?

KEN LEWIS: No, no I am saying some time during the end of the fourth quarter or some time into the first quarter, they peak. I don't, I am not picking I am trying to pick a month but not being specific about which month.

RON MANDELL: I understand but you are saying some time in that per we will see the peak rate of charge offs even though charge offs might continue at a high level, the peak rate will have been passed.

KEN LEWIS: Correct. Yes, Ron. And what that would therefore mean is that you're then only dealing with charge offs and not further reserve build.

RON MANDELL: Right. That's very important obviously when you had you $2 billion reserve build this quarter.

KEN LEWIS: $5.5 billion in two quarters.

RON MANDELL: Yes. Okay. Thanks very much.

KEN LEWIS: Okay.

KEVIN STITT: We have time for one more question.

KEN LEWIS: Yeah.

OPERATOR: And our final question comes from Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill. Your line is now open.

JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER 0"NEILL: Good morning.

KEN LEWIS: Morning.

JEFF HARTE: If I heard you correctly you are talking about residential mortgage charge offs that they were 23 basis point this is quarter maybe going toward 40 to 50 by the end of the year. First did I hear that correctly?

JOE PRICE: Well. The point was they were about 23. You can see in the supplement what we reserve to, that's a better way to think about our outlook but we were trying to be realistic and say given the continued deterioration, it wouldn't surprise us if we that you range. We are try to go give you a feel for if in fact to give you a viewpoint.

JEFF HARTE: Can you give us then a little color on the portfolio mix kind of in residential? I would be interest ted in prime versus nonprime and then specifically in prime how much is jumbo and all.

JOE PRICE: Don't have all of the specifics at my fingertips but I will tell you that the principle increase in the charge offs that we have experienced and we continue to expect is in our CRA portfolio that in our remarks I did kind of give you specifics on. In at that particular book, the charge off rate this period was just south of 100. So in the low 90s. That's driving a big part of our losses, and probably will continue to be a hunk of it.

KEN LEWIS: That's because of our product mix, we weren't in subprime.

JEFF HARTE: Okay. And in the commercial, I know this has been hit a little bit, but I just kind of look at commercial loan growth of 7.5% sequentially. That is a pretty big annualized growth rate and you talked a little bit about maybe gaining some market share. Some other people aren't competing, how do you I guess my concern is if credit isn't necessarily getting better and yet you are growing loans aggressively, how do you know or how can we be comfortable you are not putting tomorrow's problems on the balance sheet today in the commercial portfolio.

KEN LEWIS: I can't recall a time that we've able to get the credit structuring terms that we can get now and you know, including levels of equity all kind of, just the various covenants that you would want. If there was a time that some were doing their covenant heavy at the moment. The pricing is so much better than we have seen it in decades probably. So we think we are putting on very good business with the right structuring and right covenants and we are conscious of the fact that the environment in which we are operating.

JEFF HARTE: Okay. Thank you.

KEVIN STITT: Thank you very much for joining us today.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at any time. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080728e47l000gq
  


 HD
 Q1  2008  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,271 words
   PD
21 April 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to today's teleconference. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later there will be an opportunity to ask questions during our Q-and-A session and please note this call may be recorded. I will now corn the call over to Mr. Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.

   TD
KEVIN STITT, INVESTOR RELATIONS, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt, Bank of America Investor Relations. Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions, changes in credit quality, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents, and with that let me turn it over to Ken Lewis.

KEN LEWIS, PRESIDENT & CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. I am going to touch on some of the drivers affecting earnings in the first quarter and highlight results of our main businesses. Joe will then dig a little deeper into some of the issues identified along with further discussion about capital markets and advisory services, credit quality, the balance sheet, and of course capital. Although consumer and commercial business flows were relatively strong in the first quarter, revaluations of structured credit positions and higher credit costs more than offset these positives. By now, you know that the businesses within capital markets were once again negatively impacted by continued market disruptions and dislocations like we experienced in the second half of last year. In addition, first quarter reflected weaker housing markets, particularly in geographic regions that experienced significant home price declines. This weakening along with the slowing economy have resulted in credit deterioration in our consumer portfolios, particularly home equity and small business along with home builders on the commercial side.

For the first quarter of 2008 Bank of America earned $1.2 billion or $0.23 per diluted share which included after tax merger charges of $107 million or $0.02. Major items in the quarter included issuance of approximately $13 billion in capital in January bringing our tier 1 ratio to 7.51%. A positive impact related to the Visa IPO, a significant increase in provision expense, which resulted -- or included $3.3 billion of reserve increase. Additional writedowns involving our senior -- or super senior CDL and subprime related exposure, lending book and the CMBS book which altogether totaled a little over $2 billion. And finally, additional support to the Columbia cash funds of $220 million. While the litany of negative issues left a clear mark on earnings, there were bright spots within our core retail, commercial banking and investment banking businesses that indicate ongoing stability in recurring earnings power.

Looking specifically at global consumer and small business banking, earnings of $1.1 billion for the first quarter were down almost 60% from a year ago. This drop was due to a $4 billion increase in provision which more than offset a 17% increase in revenue with minimal impact from LaSalle. Revenue actually increased 3% excluding the Visa gain from the fourth quarter which we think is noteworthy given that the comparison of fourth quarter/first quarter is normally a decrease due to seasonality. Compared to a year ago, noninterest income grew 21% excluding the Visa gain due to good performance in all categories. We increased the allowance for loan losses in the consumer businesses by approximately $2.8 billion due mainly to ongoing weaknesses in the housing market and the economy along with seasoning of several (inaudible).

OPERATOR: We are currently experiencing technical difficulties. We appreciate your patience and please continue to stand by. The conference will continue momentarily. And we've been rejoined with the speakers.

KEVIN STITT: Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. We apologize for this technical glitch. We'll return to Ken's comments at this time.

KEN LEWIS: We're not sure exactly when the line was dropped, so let me just go back and start at global consumer and small business banking which had earnings of $1.1 billion for the first quarter which were down almost 60% from a year ago. This drop was due to $4 billion increase in provision which more than offset a 17% increase in revenue with minimal impact on LaSalle. Revenue actually increased 3%, excluding the Visa gain, from the fourth quarter which is noteworthy given that the comparison of fourth quarter to first quarter is normally a decrease due to seasonality. Compared to a year ago, noninterest income grew 21% excluding the Visa gain due to good performance in all categories. We increased the allowance for loan losses in these consumer businesses by approximately $2.8 billion due mainly to ongoing weaknesses in the housing market and the economy along with seasoning of several growth portfolios which Joe will discuss. Product sales were strong in several areas with net new checking accounts of 557,000 exceeding the total from a year ago by 14%.

In residential mortgage, the rate environment in early January caused somewhat of a mini re-fi boom that resulted in $23 billion of direct-to-consumer fundings which was the strongest activity we have experienced in five years. There was evidence in the fourth quarter that we were beginning to regain some traction in the retail deposit growth after several quarters of sluggish results, and this evidence became more pronounced in the first quarter. Average retail deposits increased approximately $11.5 billion or 2.3% from the fourth quarter which we believe exceeds market growth. We maintained our number one ranking as card services lender in the U.S. and U.K. with average managed consumer credit card outstandings up 3% from the fourth quarter and 10% from a year ago. Even though the economy has slowed, we continue to add new retail customers and expand our relationships relationship with existing customers which is a trend we've been demonstrating over the past few quarters. Global wealth and investment management earned $228 million in the first quarter as revenue growth of 8% versus a year ago was impacted by the cash fund support of $220 million. In addition, provision increased $220 million related to housing pressures on home equity loans.

On the positive side, asset management fees in GWIM increased 6% from a year ago after adjusting for the businesses we either added, U.S. Trust and LaSalle, or sold, Marsico. The integration of U.S. Trust continues to be on schedule and will be substantially completed in the second quarter. Premier banking and investments experienced good growth in brokerage income, fee-based assets, loan production and deposit levels. Loans with premier customers rose 14% from a year ago with organic growth in deposits of 6%. Assets under management in GWIM closed the quarter at $607 billion, about flat with a year ago after adjusting for businesses we either added or sold. Strong in-flows, including $13 billion into equity funds over the past twelve months, were offset by negative market performance. Global corporate investment banking earned $115 million in the first quarter reflecting the negative impact of events in the financial and housing markets. Although net income is up significantly from fourth quarter, it is down from $1.5 billion a year ago.

For the quarter CMAS lost $1.1 billion versus earning $528 million a year ago. Driving the loss were the markdowns I referenced earlier. Otherwise our investment bank had good client activity with investment banking fees of $665 million reflecting good results in equity underwriting and investment grade issuance. Excluding CMAS the rest of GCIB, that's mainly lending and treasury services, earned $1.2 billion during the quarter up slightly from a year ago after adjusting for the Visa gain. Good client activity and the addition of LaSalle more than offset an increase in provision expense. Client activity drove an 11% organic growth in loans and better spreads. Not included in three business segments is equity investment income of $268 million in the first quarter. This is below our range of $300 million to $400 million we talked about in January due to less liquidity in the markets.

Before I turn it over to Joe, let me make a couple of comments about our thinking given the current environment. As you realize by now, first quarter was much worse than our expectations three months ago with the most notable duration in the latter part of the quarter. The issues we faced in capital markets in the fourth quarter continued into the first quarter with March being particularly difficult. Consumer credit quality deteriorated substantially from fourth quarter, particularly in home equity. Going forward, we believe actions by the Fed along with the eventual stabilization of home values, should help the capital markets improve although not back to levels we experienced in 2006 and the first half of 2007. But even this will take time. Credit quality will continue to be an issue with charge-offs at least at first quarter levels but probably higher for the rest of the year. While we don't expect to increase reserves at the pace we experienced over the past two quarters, our reserving actions will correlate with the direction of the economy and its impact on our customers. Our economic expectations project minimal GDP growth if not contraction in the second quarter and only a slight pickup in the second half of 2008.

Results from LaSalle continue to be positive and while the slower economic environment is having some impact, things are generally in line with our expectations. We expect to close Countrywide early in the third quarter given regulatory approval and an affirmative vote by Countrywide shareholders. We believe current CDO values are appropriate but are always subject to further changes based on market conditions. Our tier 1 capital ratio closed the quarter at 7.51% up from 6.87% at year end. Our goal continues to be getting back to our target of 8%, and we plan to do that through earnings generation and no share repurchases. Now instead of just focusing in on one capital ratio, we measure capital strength from several perspectives including total shareholder equity of $156 billion as well as the allowance for loan losses of $15 billion.

And as evidenced by some recent events, I think we were all reminded that capital is only meaningful when combined with liquidity strength. We continue to maintain an abundance of liquidity at our holding where our time to required funding stands at 20 months, significantly higher than others. Given these parameters, our outlook for the economy and our earnings potential, we have not changed our philosophy about the dividend. But if the economy worsens dramatically from our outlook over the next few quarters resulting in a prolonged recessionary environment, we would do what we think prudent to manage capital. We of course remain concerned about the health of the consumer, given the prolonged housing slump, subprime issues, employment levels, and higher fuel and food prices. The drivers of our earnings for the remainder of the year will be our core businesses of retail banking, card, commercial banking, treasury services and asset management along with a tight grip on expense levels across the Corporation.

When I became CEO seven years ago, my goal was to build a franchise centered on prime U.S. consumer and commercial customers. The ground work for this franchise has centered on improving customer satisfaction, expanding our retail presence in card, and in the Northeast, and improving efficiency including the use of Six Sigma. To address risk, we exited subprime origination in 2001 and reduced our exposure to large corporate lending. All of those actions have provided us with a franchise that we think is the best in the world in financial services and centered on the U.S. customer, but of course exposed to the ups and downs of the U.S. economy. While the current environment is the most challenging I have dealt with, and while our U.S. customer base is showing some weakness, I firmly believe that the earnings power of the Bank of America model will remain in tact over the long-term. Most importantly, we remain committed to serving our customers and clients while driving profitability during these tougher times. And with that I will turn it over to Joe.

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken. Let me begin by taking a minute to elaborate further on some of the larger items affecting this quarter's results. First, the Visa IPO gain which is reflected in equity investment income at $776 million is split between our card business and treasury services excluding the reversal of related litigation costs. Much of the expense drop in the fourth quarter was related to booking the Visa litigation expense in the fourth quarter and then sequently reversing that charge in the first quarter. Pushing expense levels the other way was the negative impact of FAS 123-R or $256 million in incentive expense, which happens in the first quarter of every year when equity awards are granted. Provision expense rose to $6 billion and included additions to reserves of $3.3 billion.

Now let me turn to GCIB and address the writedowns from capital markets and advisory services. CMAS had a loss this quarter of $1.1 billion as revenues declined $3 billion from a year ago but increased almost $3.9 billion from the fourth quarter. Investment banking fees were pretty good and, although down from a year ago, were notable given the tough market conditions. Total revenue in CMAS, excluding investment banking fees or what we call sales and trading revenues, was a negative $1.3 billion as writedowns in several areas offset strong performance in interest rate products, foreign exchange, and equities. Addressing the writedowns, let me start with leveraged lending where we ended the quarter with exposure of just under $13.5 billion, $3.9 billion unfunded and $9.6 funded, which included new commitments of $1 billion as we continue to do new business on current market terms. We actually did about $3.5 billion in new business with $1 billion left in the pipeline at quarter end.

During the quarter we wrote down an additional $435 million as market pricing continued to fall especially late in the quarter. As a reminder, we don't have any covenant light exposure of note and over 60% is senior secured. Since quarter end we've sold about $1.3 billion of exposure and did not provide financing with those transactions. And we're beginning to see some signs of increased liquidity in this market. On the CMBS side we ended the quarter with just under $12 billion in exposure which includes about $1 billion unfunded. Approximately three-fourths or $9 billion is comprised of larger ticket floating rate debt, most of which was acquisition related. This floating rate debt was written down by $212 million in the first quarter net of $35 million in hedging gains. This product is a little more difficult to hedge as compared to the remaining $3 billion of exposure which is primarily fixed rate conduit product. During the quarter we actually had a net gain of $21 million on the fixed rate exposure, $396 million in writedowns offset by $417 million in hedging gains.

The third area that hit us hard this quarter related to the structured credit trading book which we're winding down. During the quarter we neutralized a good deal of the market risk but widening credit spreads and increasing counter party exposure caused us to record counter party credit valuations of a negative $272 million. Finally, in the supplemental package you can see our CDO and subprime related exposure along with the changes during the quarter where we recorded losses of $1.5 billion. These losses were comprised of $1.6 billion in super senior CDO writedowns offset by $400 million in hedging and other gains, a charge of $160 million to reflect counter party risk and $130 million in losses associated with our CDO warehouse and subprime exposure. At the end of March our net subprime super senior related exposure dropped to $5.9 billion from $8.2 billion at the end of the year, reflecting the writedowns along with reductions of another $800 million due to liquidations, cancellations and paydowns.

At this point we see liquidations accelerating during the second quarter whereby we will most likely take possession of the underlying asset-backed securities. During the quarter we took about $500 million onto the desk as part of liquidations at about $0.50 on the dollar or $250 million. Additionally, CDO warehouse exposure is down to about $200 million, and other subprime exposure is also around $200 million, both reflecting carrying values of about $0.35 on the dollar. Although we remain subject to market price fluctuations, we think the worst is behind us on these value declines. We continue to believe that once we work through these exposures and as the market trends back towards some level of normalcy, we can achieve the earnings objectives we laid out for you last quarter when we discussed our CMAS restructuring plan which, in summary, were revenue levels in line with the results we generated in 2005.

Now let me switch to credit quality. On a held basis net charge-offs in the quarter increased 34 basis points from the fourth quarter levels to 1.25% of the portfolio or $2.7 billion. On a managed basis overall consolidated net losses in the quarter increased 35 basis points to 1.69% of the managed loan portfolio or $4.1 billion. Net losses in the consumer portfolios were 2.19% versus 1.77% in the fourth quarter. Credit card represents almost two-thirds of our total consumer losses. Managed consumer credit card losses as a percent of the portfolio increased to 5.19% from 4.75% in the fourth quarter which was a little better on a percentage basis than we expected but admittedly was driven by balance growth as opposed to lower losses. 30-day plus delinquencies and consumer credit card increased 16 basis points to 5.61%. We continued to see increased delinquencies in our card portfolio in those states most affected by housing problems. California, Florida, Nevada and Arizona make up a little more than a quarter of our domestic consumer card book.

Credit quality in our consumer real estate business mainly home equity deteriorated sharply in the first quarter as a result of the weaker housing market. The problems to date have been centered in higher LTV home equity loans particularly in states that have experienced significant decreases in home prices. Almost all of these states have been growth markets in the past several years. Our largest concentrations are in California and Florida. Home equity net charge-offs increased to $496 million or 1.71% up from 63 basis points in the prior quarter. 30-day performing delinquencies are up 7 basis points to 1.33%. Nonperforming loans in home equity rose to 1.51% of the portfolio from 1.17% in the prior quarter. 82% of the net charge-offs related to loans where the borrower was delinquent and had little or no equity in the home. Loans with a greater than 90% CLTV on a refreshed basis currently represent 26% of loans versus 21% in the fourth quarter. This change reflects the continued decline in home prices most acutely in the states I noted earlier.

Like others in the industry, a material piece of the deterioration is centered in loans not originated through the franchise. These purchased loans represent only 3% of the portfolio but 20% of the net charge-offs in the quarter. As we mentioned last quarter, we discontinued such purchases in the second quarter of 2007. Excluding these loans, the net charge-off rate would be 1.41% and 52 basis points for the first quarter and first quarter respectively versus the reported 1.71% and 63 basis points respect respectively for the portfolio. We believe net charge-offs in home equity will continue to rise given softness in the real estate values and seasoning in the portfolio. We increased reserves for this portfolio to 215 basis points reflecting the continued elevated level of delinquency roles, loss occurrences and loss severities. As a result, we would expect to see losses cross the 200 basis point market by the middle of this year as we work through these issues.

We've instituted a number of initiatives to mitigate risk in new originations as well as existing exposure including lower maximum CLTVs across both geography and borrower. Two issues that plague home equity and could drive losses higher are prolonged deterioration in home values along with further deterioration in the economy. Our residential mortgage portfolio showed an increase in losses to $66 million or 10 basis points for the quarter but continues to perform well. While we've seen some deterioration in subsegments, namely our community reinvestment act portfolios that total some 8% of the book, nothing really stands out to us at this point. Let me remind you that approximately $161 billion or more than 60% of our residential mortgage portfolio carries risk mitigation protection. Of that amount approximately 80% is protected where we sell second loss exposures to cash collateralized structures where we have no counter party risk and the remaining 20% is with GSEs.

Our auto portfolio at the end of March was about $25 billion in loans. Net losses in the quarter were $101 million or annualized 1.65% of the portfolio, which is up 12 basis points or $2 million from the fourth quarter related to deterioration in the most stressed housing market. Switching to our commercial portfolios, net charge-offs increased in the quarter to $556 million or 69 basis points, up 22 basis points from the fourth quarter. Almost all the deterioration is driven by small business and home builders with the other portfolios remaining relatively sound. Net losses in small business which are reported as commercial loan losses are up $78 million from the fourth quarter and the net charge-off rate has risen to 7.21%.

As we discussed before, many of the issues in small business relate to how we grew the portfolio over the past few years, which is now compounded by the current economic trends. As we've also highlighted, we have since substituted a number of underwriting changes such as increasing the level of judgmental credit decisioning, lowering initial line assignments and changing our direct mail offerings. These actions have resulted in an increase in average FICO origination, a reduction in average line amounts, and a meaningful drop in approval rates. While it will take some time to work through these earlier vintages, small business remains a critical customer segment with attractable profitable growth opportunities.

Excluding small business, commercial net charge-offs increased $97 million from the fourth quarter to $197 million representing a charge-off ratio of 26 basis points. $90 million of the $97 million increase was driven by commercial real estate and more than half of the increase represented one credit. These small increases are still coming off historic lows and part of the losses reflect net charge-offs from home builders which were approximately $107 million, an increase of $90 million from the fourth quarter. Criticized exposure excluding available for sale and fair value loans increased $5.2 billion from year end, partially driven by commercial real estate again principally home builders. Non-real estate criticized loan and derivative exposure increased modestly as well. The increase was pretty broad-based and rising from very low 2007 levels.

Commercial nonperforming assets rose $736 million to $3 billion. As we saw last quarter additional commercial MPAs involved commercial real estate, home builders to be specific, home builder exposure was $14 billion at the end of March from a utilized standpoint at $21 billion including commitments. 49% of our home builder outstandings is rated as criticized and although pressured we still believe, as we said last quarter, the portfolio is well collateralized. Looking again at the total loan book, 90-day performing past due on a managed basis increased 8 basis points to 74 basis points while 30-day performing past due increased 4 basis points. First quarter provision of $6 billion exceeded net charge-offs resulting in the addition of $3.3 billion to the reserve. Approximately 60% of the reserve build was in portfolios tied -- directly tied to house, principally home equity and to a lesser extent residential mortgage and the home builder sector of the commercial portfolio. Small business represented approximately 20% of the build. The remaining 20% of the reserve increase was due to growth in seasoning mainly in the consumer, unsecured lending and U.S. consumer card portfolios coupled with some stress from the slower economy.

Let me get off credit quality and say a couple things about net interest income. Compared to fourth quarter on a managed and fully tax equivalent basis, net interest income was up $546 million of which core which is excluding trading related representing $47 million. The increase in core NII was due to the positive impact of $450 million from loan growth, deposit growth, and the rate environment offset by the absence of a one-time fourth quarter benefit of approximately $300 million from the restructuring of our international aircraft leasing operations and one less day in the quarter of approximately $100 million. The core net interest margin on a managed basis remains flat at 3.67% as the positive impact of wider spreads were offset by the absence of last quarter's leasing restructuring.

Before I refer you to the bubble charts, remember our year-end risk position had become more liability sensitive relative to the third quarter's we felt the forwards at December 31 didn't reflect the level of weakness that we expected. We noted during January's earnings call that after year end as the forwards began to reflect that risk we had already begun to return to a more neutral level through decreasing our (inaudible) swap portfolios. As you can see from the bubble chart, our interest rate risk position is a little less liability sensitive when compared to year end, reflecting those moves. At this point we feel the additional cuts in the forwards are fairly reflective of our views. As a reminder, the estimates of net interest income change in the charts are based off of forward curves, so the base is higher at March 31st versus December 31st. I will continue to benefit from curve steepening especially from a short end ledge steepening which is what we experienced over the last several months.

Let me say a few things about capital. Tier 1 capital at the end of March was 7.51% up from 6.87% at the end of the year due to the $12.9 billion capital raise in January. The capital raise benefited our tear 1 ratio by approximately 100 basis points versus year end levels but lower earnings in the first quarter and a higher level of risk weighted assets reduced that benefit by about 35 basis points. As Ken said we remain committed to working back at our 8% target. The additional capital increased our preferred dividends from approximately $53 million in the fourth quarter to approximately $190 million in the first quarter but still does not include the series K DRD preferred which starts paying in the third quarter and pays twice a year in the first and third quarters. Consequently going forward, you should expect preferred dividends to be approximately $190 million in the second quarter and fourth quarters, increasing to $426 million in the first and third quarters. Our tax rate this quarter excluding the FTE impact was 32.7% which is in the range we expect for the rest of the year.

Going forward into 2008 let me piggyback on what Ken said and reiterate that there is considerable uncertainty about the economic environment. It still remains unclear what ramifications the housing downturn, higher energy costs and the subprime crisis will ultimately have and how long the downturn will persist. But we do feel good about our relative position in our businesses versus competition. Loan and deposit growth generated by the franchise are still expected to benefit net interest income over the next three quarters along with the steeper curve. Deposits will grow as we continue to benefit from our market leadership and innovation, and we expect to grow faster than the market. If you remember what we told you in January, we expect growth in managed core net interest income to be in the high single-digit range on a normalized basis and above that on a reported basis from the addition of LaSalle. That outlook hasn't changed. We're still expecting growth in noninterest income from our consumer businesses.

The one major surprise since January was the accelerated deterioration in credit quality, mainly in the home equity portfolio. This will continue as a head wind due to what appears to be a further deterioration in housing and its subsequent impact on consumer asset quality. Similarly, we would expect to see challenges in the consumer dependence sectors of our commercial portfolios. Given this scenario, we would expect net losses to be at least at the levels we experienced in the first quarter and more than likely increased, which would require some additional reserve build dependent on the length and severity of the economic weakness. On the expense side we're aiming for improved operating efficiency from heavy expense control as well as savings realized from the LaSalle integration. While our outlook over the next several quarters has been tempered somewhat by the economic and credit quality headwinds we faced in the first quarter, we still feel very good about our relative position and absent things getting dramatically worse, I think earnings for the remainder of 2008 could show an upward trajectory. With that, let me open it up for questions and we thank you for your attention.

OPERATOR: [Operator Instructions] We can go first to Matthew O'Connor from UBS. Your line is open.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning.

KEN LEWIS: Hello, Matt.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: The capital ratios are a little bit low or lower than some peers, and I can appreciate the liquidity. There is a couple moving pieces that could benefit that have been discussed in the paper the last day or so in respect to China construction and the sale of the prime brokers business. I wonder if you can give us an update on what you stand there and also the potential boost to capital from those transactions?

KEN LEWIS: Let me start with China Construction Bank. As we indicated before over time we'll work with the Chinese to see what the ultimate level where they would be comfortable with us holding and then on what schedule they want us to begin monetizing the remaining piece, but I say we have to do that being ever mindful of what they wish and respect for them. We have a great relationship there and sure want to keep it that way is the way to think about. Over time, Matt, you'd probably see us increase a little bit before we did anything on the other side. Remind you that contractually we've got a lockup on our investment until at least the fourth quarter. Right now on that side our focus is really on the strategic assistance agreement and the relationship. On the prime brokerage sale we continue, I'll not comment about any specifics of the activity but we continue down a path to execute that transaction and let you know if anything in our plans change.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: And then in terms of the impact of capital, correct me if I'm wrong, but as you exercise the options from China Construction, that would flow through OCI the large gain that you have there and boost capital, right?

KEN LEWIS: Over time, but it would -- any exercise of options contractually is subjected to a holding period, and so just like our original investment didn't come into OCI until within a year of when the restriction went off, the same would hold true for any increase in our investment.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Switching topics here, Ken, when you look at some of the loan growth in the consumer categories, especially home equity, it continues to be very strong, and I know this is probably a good time to be increasing market share with standards a lot tighter and spreads a lot wider, but just conceptually how do you balance the risk reward of aggressively growing this consumer category when the macro environment is still so uncertain?

KEN LEWIS: Matt, I don't know if it is -- it's not an overt attempt to aggressively grow it. It may be -- there may be some issues with others not having liquidity or wanting to pull back in a general sense, but we've actually as we said strengthened the standards substantially and turndowns have increased substantially, so it must be a factor of others not being as competitive in the marketplace and us really taking advantage of the fact that we do have liquidity and the spreads are so good and the credit quality is so good.

JOE PRICE: I might add if you look at our quarter-to-quarter production, we're probably down about 15% in terms of origination on it. You can see the kind of flow slowing down a little bit because of those restrictions that Ken -- or those tightening some of the standards in the structures, but it is still down considerably from the prior quarter.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Mike Mayo from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

JOE PRICE: Hi, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: If you could elaborate more on how the credit quality problems are spreading, Joe, I thought you said you might see an increase in consumer dependent commercial portfolios and I wasn't sure what that meant or if I heard you correctly.

JOE PRICE: First of all, on the commercial side as I kind of went through in the speech, that obviously the most acute weaknesses are in the home builders sector. The point I was making is as the economy slows and the consumer shows weakness, that will have an impact on consumer dependent credits in the commercial portfolio and think of that, the easiest to think about might be retail with retail spending slows or falls, you would see weakness in that side. Now, when you talk to our customer base and when you look at our statistics across the middle market, business across the United States, if you compare it it to 90 days ago I think you're hearing -- beforehand you were hearing more concern about what they read in the paper and now feeling a little lower investment activity and things of that nature, so having an impact on it but more from an outlook than it is from actual deterioration of credit performance at this point.

MIKE MAYO: So of your commercial portfolio, how much would you deem consumer dependent in one way or another?

JOE PRICE: I think the best thing I can do is refer to you to our supplement where you can see the industry breakdown because how much of an individual industry is consumer dependent is probably a little more in the eye of the beholder on that, and that would be the best way to look at it, but clearly if you start with home builders, and then you look at homebuilding supply type companies and then you go on into retail that would be the way to think about it.

MIKE MAYO: And with regard to small business, the increase in problems which you highlighted, is that more in the problem markets like California and Florida or is it more of a product issue or both?

JOE PRICE: Clearly weighted towards the places that have had the most stress being the places that home prices have fallen the most.

MIKE MAYO: And the increase in commercial real estate, how much of that is due to LaSalle or is that just kind of a broad franchise issue?

JOE PRICE: Most of the LaSalle impact came in in the fourth quarter although as we continue to conform our policies into the Bank of America standards we had some additional migration into the criticized level but the most part most of LaSalle came in in the fourth quarter.

MIKE MAYO: And home equity, where do the losses end, does it ultimately go up to credit card type losses?

JOE PRICE: Who can predict the future, but I would not think that would be the case. As I said it wouldn't surprise us to see it that cross into the 200 basis points by mid-year and in that 2 to 2.5% range probably for the year, but it is clearly dependent on future additional home price depreciation and the economic weakening and how the duration of the economic weakness.

MIKE MAYO: And are you seeing that spread out of the high risk markets like California or Florida?

JOE PRICE: Yes, absolutely.

MIKE MAYO: This is just not necessarily only a function of markets with big house price declines?

JOE PRICE: Mike, ask your first again to make sure I understood.

MIKE MAYO: I just wanted to make clear, the higher risk markets are those with the highest home price declines like Florida and California.

JOE PRICE: Right.

MIKE MAYO: And to the extent that the home equity problems are spreading beyond those higher risk markets.

JOE PRICE: There is some spread but the lion's share, and we put some information in the supplement to give you a lot of detail so you can see our what's driving our losses and our delinquencies by state, so you can see and there is not solely those markets but it is clearly dominated by those markets.

KEN LEWIS: Mike, some huge percentage of the loss is driven by California and Florida.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Last question, your NPAs went up but your charge-offs also went up almost a similar amount whereas a lot of other banks are saying charge-offs may increase over time, so it is more coincident for you guys than others, so at least raises a question as to whether you were conservative enough in the past in recognizing the charge-offs or something else is going on here for you versus peer?

KEN LEWIS: Well, I don't think -- we reserve as you would expect me to say, we reserve each quarter based on the information flow that we have, so that's our quarterly process. The actual increases in nonperforming versus charge-offs you have to remember the size of our credit card book that generates the lion's share of our charge-offs -- consumer charge-offs overall doesn't necessarily flow to a nonperforming asset. Our home equity book which we reserved more for, involved charge-offs jumped, not -- they jumped 171 basis points from the 63. We see stuff moving into nonperforming out of that book of business as well as the mortgage business which had low charge-offs, so it is a mix and it all depends on what the mix of the business is and what goes into nonperforming versus your charge-off policies on some paper that goes straight to charge-off with nothing (inaudible) NPAs.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Next question from the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. On the reserve building, could you give us some indication as to how you're thinking about that going forward? Is it just tied to your NPA growth or anything else there that we should be considering?

JOE PRICE: No, Betsy, our reserving policies are kind of -- you have to think of it as commercial versus consumer. On the consumer businesses, we generally take the information that we know that exists in the portfolio and roll and extrapolate that forward and reserve a certain number of months, generally think of it as about twelve months although card is a little bit less than that, and that's pretty standard across the industry and somewhat regulatory driven, so it is not based off NPAs. On the commercial side, we have a process that we go through that looks at the criticized levels and increase and the ratings within the criticized levels, and those tend to be probably the bigger drivers than NPA, and NPA is really the culmination at the end of migration through criticized, so that's probably more of a driver for you to think about than NPA's themselves.

BETSY GRASECK: How is the criticized doing on a Q on Q basis? Is there much difference from what the NPAs are telling you?

JOE PRICE: We've given you the supplements with criticized information on it so you can see the details. The NPAs are driven in large part by the consumer business.

BETSY GRASECK: Right.

JOE PRICE: And whereas on the commercial side it is driven by less of an increase on the commercial side.

BETSY GRASECK: Right.

JOE PRICE: It is not really a connect point there. A lot of the growth in -- as I talked about earlier, a lot of the growth in the criticized and commercial is commercial real estate and in particular home builder focused, and that's why we kind of laid out all that detail for you so you could see it.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. And it kind of looks on the home builders side like you might be entering the tail end of that cycle. Is that fair to say or not?

JOE PRICE: That's kind of dependent on home prices and the companies. Clearly there are things being considered in the marketplace and some of the congressional discussions going on that would assist the home builders, but I think the home builders recovery will probably track more home price stabilization than anything else.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Two other different types of questions. On leverage in the capital market's business, could you give us a sense as to how you're thinking about your leverage at quarter end and how you see that going forward? Are you pretty much done with your deleveraging there or is there more to go?

JOE PRICE: Deleveraging, you're speaking to the restructuring?

BETSY GRASECK: Correct.

JOE PRICE: Brian's team is in the midst of I guess is what I would say. Obviously we talked about prime brokers sale being a part of that. As I referenced when we talked about capital, our asset levels and think of this principally as risk-weighted asset levels are a little higher than where we would like them to be and it is a place we're very much focused on. So from a business activity standpoint, most of the things have been initiated. From a management of balance sheet and returning to the level of profitability, we've got a ways to go there.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. But we could see some risk weighted assets coming down as you do that?

JOE PRICE: Yes.

BETSY GRASECK: And then on the net interest margin side, I realize there is the core business and there is the trading business. Then there is also the opportunity you have to take advantage of the yield curve steepness and in particular in the back end of the curve. Could we anticipate a little bit more activity and perhaps either the trading side or the swap book to benefit more from the back end of the curve than you've been generating to date?

JOE PRICE: I think not beyond what we kind of tried to tell you about the projection of net interest income or the outlook on net interest income that I reiterated earlier. That incorporates our full view of -- in that core that I was talking about of where we are and what we're thinking about there. The capital markets side that had a pretty strong growth over prior quarter was curve dependent but also level dependent based on the comments I made earlier on the asset levels, so that one is a little more market sensitive probably is much short end curve driven as it is long end. The core machine, though, is incorporated in what we told you in kind of the outlook that we have in the bubble charts.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.

JOE PRICE: And Betsy, that outlook shows sequential improvement or increases and so you've just begun to see it in first quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question from the site of Chris Mutascio from Stifel Nicolaus. Your line is open.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning, Ken, Joe, and Kevin.

JOE PRICE: Hi, Chris.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Joe, a quick question. The Visa reversal, have you disclosed the amount of reversal this quarter on the operating spend side?

JOE PRICE: We didn't I am looking at Kevin see if that's a public number. No, but I would tell you that it wasn't too far off of negating the 123-R.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Thank you. Fair enough.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Meredith Whitney from Oppenheimer. Your line is open.

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Good morning. I have a few questions. The first is a point of clarification. Did you guys -- looks as if several of your product buckets losses are accelerating. So I am confused or did I hear things right in terms of your saying the loss rates will stay constant or at these levels because by my estimates levels would get significantly higher as losses are accelerating.

KEN LEWIS: Are you talking about loan losses, Meredith?

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Yes.

JOE PRICE: No, the point that we were making in the prepared remarks is we would see our charge-off levels increasing, and obviously by the fact of what we've reserved, that's a clear indication of our anticipation that we would see those continue to trend up, and that's what we reserve for.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. Then on the OCI line can you quantify how much you had to write down CCB this quarter?

JOE PRICE: Yes. The CCB drop, Kevin, do you know the exact number?

KEN LEWIS: I think it was about $3 billion.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay.

JOE PRICE: I would say that if you -- I don't watch it daily, but if you looked, stock is back up to about where it was at the end of the year, maybe slightly below, so that fluctuates.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: My final question is to Ken. What of the -- what of the policies in Washington are the most reasonable or you believe are the most helpful of some type of best case scenario for you guys and then from a timing of how it would impact your portfolio, your workout, can you comment on the environment in Washington, the conversations that you're having just to give us who are not in the inner circle a little more perspective?

KEN LEWIS: Well, there is several. I will probably forget one or two, Meredith. One of the things that I like the most, well, one thing that was the raising of the limit on what Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae could do that's going to help the higher priced markets, and secondly the -- I really like this tax credit to buy foreclosed homes because that's very specifically getting at the inventory that would actually help stabilize prices quite a bit, and then generally in favor of most of the things that are being proposed other than things like having judges being able to change the terms, I don't like that, but basically I think most of the things that are being proposed are pretty well thought out.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. How soon would any type of implementation, is this going to be implemented after the fact, so you would benefit in a 210 scenario? Is there any way to know how immediate these actions can take place?

KEN LEWIS: I hope they would be done quickly and of course would hope they're done after the fact because that would mean things had improved dramatically. But that is a concern that things go on and we get into philosophical arguments and nothing happens or happens too late, and so we're trying our best to say there should be a sense of urgency here.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: So my final wrap up is when you see CEOs mainly CEOs from brokerage firms saying that we're beyond the worst of things, can you comment in terms of the regulators involvement with the housing situation and make any similar type of comment?

KEN LEWIS: Well, in a broad sense, and I wouldn't just talk about regulators or the government, I think first it would be too early to strike up the band and sing happy days are here again. But from the investment banking standpoint, that is the write-offs, I do think we're in the last innings or last quarter whatever sports analogy you want to use. And then the other -- the credit issue is so housing dependent and related and economic and economy related, I think we're not in the last inning or the last few innings. We have got at least the rest of this year to go. Again as Joe said, and we said in our comments, that we have very high levels of charge-offs and possible additional reserve bills but not the level of reserve bills that we've had for the fourth and first quarters.

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Jefferson Harrelson of KBW. Your line is open.

JEFFERSON HARRELSON, ANALYST, KBW: Thanks. I want to focus on the home equity book a little bit if possible. How much of the $118 billion are first mortgages versus second?

JOE PRICE: I don't have that stat right in front of me. Kevin, can you get back?

KEVIN STITT: Yeah, I will get back to you.

JEFFERSON HARRELSON: Appreciate that. And then in the 2007 vintage, we see it has a loss rate of 108. How would that compare against 2006 a year ago? Is it seasoning worse than the '06 or better than the '06?

KEN LEWIS: I don't have the numbers or I don't have the specifics, but I would tell you that it is tracking probably a little worse than if you just think about what's happening in the economic environment because the acute housing declines have occurred during that period, and so just by virtue of that factor, you probably see it tracking higher than the '06 at that earlier date.

JEFFERSON HARRELSON: Thank you. Can you just remind us how quickly or what the refresh loan to value is and how you get the refreshed numbers and what calculation do you do to arrive at the refresh? Is it new appraisal or what on the refresh number?

JOE PRICE: First of all, we provide in the supplement the refresh numbers on home equity as well as mortgage, so you have that in the package. The process is an automated process just the way we refresh FICOs, we do it with loan to value ratios or combined loan to value ratios from that standpoint. It is not a go out and get new reappraisals on every portfolio. It is through the appraisal services that you can bounce the whole portfolio off of.

JEFFERSON HARRELSON: Thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from the site of Ed Najarian from Merrill Lynch. Your line is open.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, guys.

JOE PRICE: Good morning.

ED NAJARIAN: Two quick questions. First, could you potentially give us some perspective on your managed credit card loss outlook for the rest of the year and how you would expect that to trend. And the second question would be, Ken, you mentioned you have not changed your dividend philosophy, but then went onto say in a prolonged recession we clearly have to consider the most prudent way to manage our capital, which to me sort of implied that there would be some chance of a dividend cut in a prolonged recession. Could you talk about what kinds of things you would think about or look for that would potentially lead to a dividend cut and also, in light of that, would you cut the dividend first or raise more capital? Assuming you needed to raise more capital, would you go out and raise capital to try to preserve the dividend or look to cut the dividend before another capital raise? Thanks.

JOE PRICE: On your first question on managed credit card losses we were at 519 or 5.19 on consumer card in the first quarter. We kind of talked about in the past that we saw a range of 5 to 5.5 as kind of the normal operating range, but obviously if you go into a recessionary period you could bounce over that. At this point I would say that we may be over that in a quarter here, and it wouldn't surprise us on an annual basis to bounce above that if this kind of economic condition continues, and that's really where we're at right now. You can -- we reserve between somewhere I am going to rule of thumb call about eleven months of that so you can see on the supplement package we reserved about to 5.25 if you extrapolate that.

KEN LEWIS: Ed, on the dividend question, obviously the key thing that we would look at is how earnings are being affected, and earnings -- after tax earnings and after tax after preferred earnings related to the dividend itself, and I will repeat that what we see in our forecast and what we see for the economy would not lead us to think that we needed to do anything, but obviously that earnings ratio just the coverage would be a big factor. The first quarter was a little much -- somewhat of anomaly in that you take $3.3 billion of pre-tax earnings and put it in your reserve, but it is still on the balance sheet and still a form of capital, but second quarter will be a critical quarter for us to look and see if earnings returned to what we think would be going towards more normal levels, and we'll kind of go from there, but if -- I think I would say that first we would look at, if we thought we needed more capital we look at preferred, we would not look at preferred convertible but then after that if things really got bad, then we would look at the dividend.

JOE PRICE: By that we clearly are focused on asset levels and the elevated assets on the capital market side, too.

KEN LEWIS: We have hard work to do this quarter on asset levels in CMAS.

ED NAJARIAN: But you would look -- just so I could be sure, reiterate that you would look to issue preferred before you would probably cut the dividend if things got bad or worse?

KEN LEWIS: No. I think I was just thinking in general terms, but if things got noticeably worse and our view of things was that they would continue to be worse for some period of time, a prolonged recession, then of course we look at the dividend.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC. Your line is open.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: This would just be sort of a follow-on to Ed's question, I guess. The Boston Fed President Rosenberg (sic) was quoted in the Boston Globe a couple of days ago as saying that the Fed was actively encouraging banks to look at raising capital and part of that being of course the dividend cuts which seems to be a bit more active a stance on the part of the Fed than we've seen in a while. Can you just comment on this, Ken? Have you had that conversation with them and are they sort of making the rounds and saying nothing is off the table here? What's going on?

KEN LEWIS: Well, I know that in general there is that general feeling that a bank should be looking to cut their dividends if there are capital issues, and I know the Secretary of the Treasury, Hank Paulson, has said the same thing. But I don't know exactly who they're referring to because we would remind everybody that their definition of well capitalized is 6%, and so they must be talking about ones that are actually pushing toward that lower end. And I think they generally as we talk about it, they do look a little more holistically and do look at loan loss reserve bills and look at liquidity levels and look at sheer levels of equity in addition to just the tier 1. I think our -- I am not sure, I have not researched this, but I think our level of equity capital is the largest base of equity capital of any financial institution in the world, and to me that means a little something.

NANCY BUSH: I would also just add onto that and this may be more a question for Joe, has the loan loss reserve methodology, not just the number but the methodology changed dramatically versus a year ago because we've also heard that the regulators have now been urging more of a prospective look in building the reserve and that the SEC and the GAAP issue has at least temporarily gone away. Can you comment on that?

JOE PRICE: No, Nancy, it hasn't changed. Our methodology hasn't changed. What sometimes gets blurred with a change in methodology that could be leading to some of the discussion that you have is when you get such volatility in your outlook, you know, what you should consider and you shouldn't is a harder question than when you're just straight lined in a less volatile period, and that you just don't have that level, and that's where the gray area becomes to come in. I think it is not a methodology change, I think said your more volatile outlooks and how you consider all of those various factor sincerely where the gray matter is a little bit.

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And that was our final question so I will turn this call back to speakers for any closing remarks.

KEVIN STITT: Thank you, everyone, for your participation and have a good day.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's teleconference. Have a great day. You may disconnect at any time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | e1101 : Economic Growth | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080505e44l000jh
  


 HD
 Q4  2007   Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
12,634 words
   PD
22 January 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to today's teleconference. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later there will be an opportunity to ask questions during our Q&A session. Please note this call may be recorded.   

I will now turn the program over to Mr. Kevin Stitt. Please begin, sir.   

   TD
KEVIN STITT, EXEC. DIRECTOR, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you. Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin their conference, let me remind you this conference does contains some forward-looking statements, regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.   

These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.   

With that, let me turn it over to Ken Lewis.   

KEN LEWIS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning and thanks for joining our earnings review. In our time this morning, Joe and I would like to cover several topics, including various aspects of earnings in 2007, our strategy for capital markets and advisory services, and our outlook for 2008. We will cover what we think is relevant for both understanding the quarter, and conveying to you our thoughts about the future. Additional details on our quarterly and full-year results are available in the financial supplement.   

Clearly the past few quarters have been stressful for shareholders, management and associates, easily the toughest environment since I have been CEO of  Bank of America. But at the same time, it is important to stay focused on our strategic goals and to remember that our business model was designed to handle cyclical stresses, if not the extremes we are experiencing today.   

For the full year of 2007,  Bank of America earned $15 billion, or $3.30 per diluted share. This includes the deeply depressed results of the fourth quarter, in which we earned only $268 million, or $0.05 a share. You also know by now that the earnings decline from earlier periods was largely due to revaluations of structured credit positions, and other market dislocations that affected our results, and higher credit costs.   

While the market has been rocky and certainly impacted our results, our performance even under these conditions has not been what it should have been. Before Joe talks about quarterly earnings and our outlook for 2008, I want to spend the next few moments touching on the 2007 highlights in each of our businesses. Many of our business had a good year from a revenue standpoint, which provides a base from which to deliver strong results going forward.   

Starting with Global Consumer & Small Business banking, total revenue increased 6%, due to impressive performance in noninterest income and increased net interest income. However, earnings of $9.4 billion for 2007 were down 17% from a year ago, due to a 51% increase in provision. Noninterest income grew 13% due to good card performance and higher service charges. We increased the allowance for loan losses by around $2 billion, due mainly to on-going weaknesses in the housing market, along with seasoning of several growth portfolios.   

Product sales were strong, up 9% from last year, with net new checking accounts exceeding two million in 2007. That makes a total of over nine million over the past four years. Product and process innovation helped us maintain our leading positions in most consumer categories. We regained some traction in the last half of 2007 on retail deposit growth, after several quarters of sluggish results.   

We attained a longstanding goal of a leading position in the origination of direct-to-consumer real estate loans, and maintained our #1 ranking as card services lender in the U.S. and the U.K. Our efforts in expanding small business continue to produce results, with revenue growth of 13%, average loan growth of 27%, and growth and active accounts online of 16%.   

In short even though the economy has slowed, we continue to add new retail customers, and expand our relationships with existing customers. Global wealth and investment management earned $2.1 billion in 2007, down 6% from 2006, due to the impact of the cash fund support which Joe will discuss.   

On the positive side, asset management fees increased 21% in Columbia. The integration of U.S. Trust is proceeding as planned and contributed to an increase to earnings in the private wealth management area. Earn in premier banking and investments were up 8%, due to record brokerage income and good growth in fee-based assets and loan production.   

Loans with Premier customers rose 16% in 2007, with organic growth and deposits of 3%. The Marsico sale closed during the quarter, resulting in a gain of $1.5 billion pre-tax, which is reflected in the all other segment. Assets under management and GWIM closed the year at $643 billion, up 7% from a year ago, after adjusting for the sale of Marsico, which had a $61 billion impact on assets under management, and the addition of U.S. Trust mid-year of LaSalle. Global corporate investment banking earned $538 million in 2007, reflecting the negative impact of significant events in the financial market.   

For the year, Capital Markets and Advisory Services lost 3.4 billion, versus earning 1.7 billion in 2006. Outside of the Capital Markets businesses, the combination of business lending and Treasury Services earned $4.2 billion. This was down from $4.6 billion earnings in 2006, as good client activity which drove revenue growth, was offset by higher provision expense coming off recent historic lows, and increased infrastructure spending.   

2007 was a year of heavy investment for the future growth of our Treasury business. As you saw in the press release last week, we have completed much of the strategic review of Capital Markets and Advisory Services, and remain dedicated to customer and client activity. However, we are returning to a more basic strategy.   

We are currently marketing our prime brokerage business, and are downsizing our CDO and certain structured products businesses. We are resizing international platforms to emphasize core competencies in debt, cash management, and trading. In other words, we will play to our strengths and deemphasize those businesses where we lack scale. These actions should result in a smaller balance sheet and lower head count. If we started with this action plan on day one of this year, would probably leave our revenue in the Capital Markets business somewhere around the 2005 level.   

Not including the three business segments is Equity investment income of $3.7 billion in 2007, which reflects results from principle investing that benefited from favorable market conditions, dividends, and other returns from our strategic investments. The contribution of equity investment income from principle investing was approximately 2.2 billion. That is higher than we expected a year ago, and was driven by a robust market in the first half of the year.   

Before I turn it over to Joe, let me make a couple of comments about my expectations in 2008. Our economic expectations project minimal GDP growth, and although a slowdown not a recession, as we expect a pretty rocky start to the year improving thereafter. Absent a market disruption event like we experienced in 2007, I would expect our earnings per share in 2008 to be well above $4.00 a share.   

As I said earlier, U.S. Trust is going well, and is on-target to be accretive in 2008. Likewise, early results for LaSalle were positive, and are expected to add to earnings in 2008. Business in general is good, and we now believe we will exceed our cost savings projections. Over the quarter, our commercial deposit base has grown 5% in the LaSalle footprint, as class benefit from  Bank of America's expanding credit and Credit Services capabilities.   

Countrywide is expected to close early in the second half of this year. Since we believe the impact of Countrywide to earnings will be neutral in 2008, all of our comments today about 2008 exclude the addition of Countrywide. With our write-downs this quarter, we are comfortable that current CDO values are appropriate, but could be subject to further changes based on market conditions. At the time of the LaSalle announcement, we had estimated a Tier-1 capital ratio, which is our most constraining measure of approximately 7.5%. Our current capital position is not at our 8% Tier-1 target, principally due to the combination of LaSalle acquisition, as well as lower earnings.   

Our goal continues to be getting back to that target, and we will do that through earnings generation, capital raising, and no net share repurchases. Given our outlook for the economy and our earnings potential in 2008, we have not changed our philosophy about the dividend, and remain proud of our record of 30 straight years of increases. The environment is very tough, and we expect it to remain so for some months to come. We stay concerned about the level of domestic consumption and spending, given the prolonged housing sloth, subprime issues, and higher fuel and food prices.   

Our core businesses of retail banking, card, consumer, real estate, small business, commercial banking, Treasury services, and asset management remain very sound, and in many cases we believe are world class. We also have strengths and fixed income and certain other Capital Market businesses, and our re-tooling of these businesses puts us on good footings as well. Our initiative spend in 2008 is targeted at $1.4 billion, which is more than we spent in 2007, and signals that we have stepped up investments for the future.   

Those investments focus on areas like the mass affluent customer base, as we continue to expand our offerings to relationship customers, to give us more of the business, and in essence scaling what is already a proven model. We have focused a lot of attention on the retirement opportunity to capitalize on the continuing change of demographics, to grow revenues associated with the shift, and we expect to see continued growth in our mass consumer business, as we focus on the cornerstone products of relationship.   

This is helping us regain momentum in our deposit growth. Add to our leading position in Card Services, both domestic and international, and increase our share of the mortgage market. With our new go to market model in our Commercial and Treasury businesses, we will drive productivity gains, and improve client satisfaction. Innovation and products, distribution and process improvements stemming from all of our associate's efforts in 2007, will serve us well as we start the new year.   

While we have reassessed our strategy in Investment Banking and Capital Markets, we by no means have hunkered down, and are looking forward to leveraging our strengths in 2008. We have also been anticipating the normalizing credit environment that we are experiencing, and have been working closely with our customers and clients, to assure them that we are in the lending business, but at the same time we are focused on getting paid for the risk we take.   

With that, I will turn it over to Joe to expand a bit on the quarter, as well as on some of the points I referenced.   

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken. Before diving into the businesses let me take a minute to summarize some of the larger items affecting this quarter's results. Now either Ken and I have discussed these items at different times during the fourth quarter. We had a negative CDO of sub-prime related charges during the quarter of $5.3 billion, 4.5 billion is reflected in trading, and 750 million recorded in Other Income. Provision expense rose to $3.3 billion, and included additions to reserves of 1.3 billion. Our Other Expenses include costs for Visa.   

We also had a charge of approximately 400 million to support Columbia's cash funds, and incurred a write-down of around 400 million, associated with mezzanine securities we had previously purchased from Columbia's cash funds. Our weak trading revenue reflects the negative results on positioning other than CDOs, and lastly, we booked a $1.5 billion gain on the sale of Marsico that Ken mentioned. LaSalle closed on October 1st and distorts the trends in many items. While we don't intend to break out LaSalle's results going forward, we are providing a good bit of detail this quarter.   

As Ken said, the LaSalle businesses are doing well, and the integration is on-track. Revenue was 685 million, consisting of 470 million in net interest income, and 215 million in noninterest income. Much of the revenue was related to commercial banking. Expenses were 615 million including merger costs and negligible cost saves, resulting in an earnings contribution in the quarter of about $0.01. At closing on October 1st LaSalle added 63 billion in loans, 30 billion in securities, and 63 billion in deposits to our balance sheet. Asset quality has been consistent with our expectations, and reported provision expense was eight million.   

Of the increases in NPAs and criticized exposure at the total company, the addition of LaSalle represented 47%, or $1.2 billion, and 78%, or $5.2 billion of the increases respectively. As Ken mentioned, things are on-track. Cost saves are now projected to be higher than originally expected, but in 2008 this will likely be offset by some shortfall in operating earnings, principally in the markets-related portion of the business. We completed all our assessments entering into the execution phase, which involves changes to sales processes, product offerings, customer marketing, and systems conversions.   

Now let me move into some brief comments about the fourth quarter business performance, before I talk in detail about Capital Markets & Advisory Services, credit quality, and a few other topics. In Global Consumer and Small Business banking, earnings of $1.9 billion in the fourth quarter were down 28% from a year ago, as revenue growth of more than 7%, or $843 million, was more than offset by a higher provision of 1.5 billion, adding almost 1.3 billion to the allowance for loan losses.   

Sales performance in the quarter totaled more than 12 million units, up 11% over last year. As you can see, total retail deposit balances including our wealth management balances are up 10% from a year ago, driven by a combination of organic and acquisition growth. On an organic basis, through much of the year we lagged the market, but have regained some momentum in market share in the last half of the year with linked quarter growth of 1%. Debit card purchase volume increased 13% over last year, and revenue grew by 12% to $564 million for the quarter.   

Net new retail accounts drove service charges up 17% over last year. Card services revenue grew 3% from last year, as ending managed loans were up 12%. As 3% revenue growth is muted as the I/O strip had a negative swing of 260 million year-to-year, and without the swing, card revenue increased 9%. The write-down on the I/O during the fourth quarter was 167 million, driven principally by higher projected credit losses. Purchase volumes were up 6% from last year, driven by international growth as U.S. growth rates remained lower at 4%. Cash volumes are up 20%.   

First mortgage originations across the Company were approximately 25 billion, an increase of 5% from last year. Although down in originations from the previous quarter, our direct-to-consumer market share continues to grow, despite the market disruptions. Mortgage banking income on a consolidated basis increased $231 million to $386 million on a linked quarter basis, mostly from higher servicing income. Average home equity loans are up 5% from the third quarter after adjusting for LaSalle.   

Now switching to Global Wealth and Investment Management, earnings of $334 million were impacted by fund support during the quarter. As Ken mentioned, we recorded a pre-tax gain from the sale of Marsico in the quarter of 1.5 billion, which was recorded in our corporate results outside this business segment. As a result of this sale, assets under management was reduced by 61 billion of the total 106 billion that was managed by Marsico. Marsico continues to manage $45 billion in AUM for Columbia.   

Revenues will be reduced by about $450 million annually, and expenses by around $150 million annually. Included in the results for Columbia was a charge of just under $400 million, versus the 600 million we had estimated earlier in the quarter, to support Columbia's cash funds due primarily to structured investment vehicle exposure.   

Columbia's exposure to SIV across the entire cash fund complex is just above 4%, with around half of that being exposure to nonbank sponsored SIV, all exposure is senior paper, and has been marked by the Columbia funds at year end. The support agreements remain in place if needed.   

Aside from the SIV impact asset management fees at Columbia grew 21% year-to-year. Going forward revenue should rebound as the absence of the market disruption impact and the addition of U.S. Trust will offset the impact of the Marsico sale. Additionally, incremental investments and marketing campaigns, client facing-associates and our retirement and [fueling] initiatives, are expected to drive future growth in all three of the core units.   

Equity investment gains for the total Corporation in the fourth quarter were $317 million, which is at the low end of the range we discussed last quarter, due to market conditions. Also included in All Other was a $400 million writedown, related principally to a mezzanine SIV investment we previously purchased out of the Columbia funds. This investment has been written off.   

Finally let me turn to GCIB and address Capital Markets & Advisory Services. Unfortunately, I have to once again report losses in this business. Markets seemed to recover a bit in early October only to seize up again in November, making it feel like a repeat of August. Given the current market conditions, I will again go into more detail than usual, in order to provide the level of transparency that most of you are looking for.   

CMAS had a loss this quarter of 3.8 billion, as revenues declined 4.4 billion from the third quarter. Investment banking produced revenue of $577 million, and although down 24% from a year ago, it exceeded third quarter results by 32%. Sales and trading results were down $4.5 billion, primarily due to the 5.3 billion writedown of CDO and subprime-related exposures taken in the quarter.   

Let me take you through CMAS by product. I will start with liquid products as they produced $584 million in sales and trading revenue for the quarter, tops for the year, and up 32% from a year ago. We had strong results in interest rate products in foreign exchange, and less of a drag from our MUNI business that was still burdened by spread widening.   

Turning to Credit products, sales and trading revenue was a negative $455 million for the quarter, compared to a negative $885 million in the third quarter. The losses are centered in a couple of legacy books, that we continue winding down after our third quarter experiences. As you know, the market has not been real accommodating for that purpose.   

Before going into Other Capital Markets businesses, let me address where we stand on our non-real estate origination business. Our share of the leveraged lending forward calendar, dropped from 28 billion at the end of September, to just over 12 billion at year end.   

Our funded positions Held for Distribution increased just over 1.5 billion, to $6 billion. There was a good deal of activity as we entered around $5 billion in new commitments, syndicated some, and had some deals terminate. Our third quarter mark, which included consideration to deals fees, was pretty close to what it took to distributed and mark our current exposure. There were really no investment grade deals funded or in the pipeline in excess of normal levels.   

On the CLO front, we are down to under $1 billion of leveraged loan inventory, due to some executions and sales during the quarter. Let me cover equities real quick before turning to structured products. Sales and trading revenue and equities of $198 million, compared to 244 million in the third quarter, the decline here was driven by lower client activity in equity capital markets, and lower equity derivatives revenue.   

Turning to structured products, which includes residential mortgage and asset-backed securities, commercial mortgages, structured credit trading, and our structure security businesses including our CDO business. Sales and trading results in the quarter were a negative $5.5 billion, driven by the marks on our CDO and other residential mortgage exposure, as well as on our CMBS origination business.   

On the CMBS side, we ended the quarter with 13.6 billion in funded debt. That compares to 8.4 billion at the beginning of the quarter with fundings of just over $11 billion, being offset by securitizations of about nine billion, and the addition of 3.4 billion from LaSalle.   

As you are aware the CMBS market has been slow, resulting in some securitizations that have not been profitable. We have reflected that in our year-end marks, and losses for this activity during the quarter totaled around $130 million. This mark also covered our forward pipeline down to just over two billion at year-end, from almost 10 billion at September 30th.   

We continue to wind down our structured credit trading business, and experienced some additional losses there. We also experienced negative marks on our non-subprime residential non-agency security exposure, our remaining subprime whole loan exposure, and our remaining subprime securities manufactured for distributions. All-in our net marks on these books were around $330 million. The remaining subprime exposure is around $0.5 billion and Held in Security form.   

On the CDO side, our losses in the quarter were $5.1 billion, after excluding the subprime whole loan marks I just mentioned. This includes charges associated with our super senior exposure, counterparty risk associated with wraps our insured super senior exposure, and other sales and trading exposure, including the CDO warehouse.   

The super senior CDO exposure before adjusting for the writedowns on our super senior piece is shown in the supplemental information we provided. The highlighted column which totaled $12.1 billion again before our write-downs, depicts our subprime exposure that is not insured, and where subprime consumer real estate loans make up at least 35% of the ultimate underlying collateral. Approximately four billion of our marks were against this exposure.   

To give you a little more background on exposure, for high grade about 40% of our collateral is not subprime, and of the remaining 60% that is subprime, two-thirds is '06/'07 vintage, and one-third is '05 and prior. For our 2A7 mezzanine exposure, 60% of the collateral is not subprime, and of the subprime collateral, 60% is '05 and earlier vintages.   

On the cash side for mezzanine, the collateral was heavily weighted towards subprime with about two-thirds being later vintages. On the CDO squared side, for the cash positions about half is non-subprime collateral. Approximately a quarter is non-subprime on the 2A7 put side. The subprime collateral is mostly later vintages in these exposures.   

In addition to the mark on our super senior, a little more than $1 billion of our charges, relate primarily to the writedowns on our CDO warehouse, and on other sales and trading positions that had been retained in manufacturing CDOs, or taken as collateral under financing transactions. The combined subprime CDO sales and trading positions at 12/31 are carried at $600 million, or about $0.30 on the dollar.   

Finally we also took charges to cover counterparty risks the insured CDOs of around $200 million. From a valuation and management standpoint, we have evolved towards a view that for many if not most of these structures will see terminations, and therefore have looked through the securities to the net asset value supported by the underlying securities. In these cases, we utilized external pricing services consistent with our normal valuation processes. We priced over 70% of the exposure in this manner.   

The remaining exposure evaluations were derived by references to similar securities, or on projected cash flows, the majority being by reference to similar securities. For those that we value using cash flow, consistent with my comments earlier, we generally assume that the structures would terminate early, and therefore you can think of it as almost an I/O valuation. I might note that we also tested our overall valuation by cash flow analysis. Now stepping back from the process, while we are still carrying exposure, much of the remaining value is from either the non-subprime collateral, early vintage subprime collateral, or shorter term cash flows off of the toughest collateral.   

Let me spend a minute or two recapping what we have said recently about the results of our strategic review of the Investment Banking and Capital Markets business. As you heard Ken say, it is back to basics. We will focus on core strengths and natural advantages. We will exit business that is don't align with those objectives. We remain committed to serving our corporate sponsor and institutional investor clients needs, with a wide range of Investment Banking services across industries.   

Specific actions in the short-term involve selling our prime broke brokerage business, and restructuring our international platform. These actions should result in total revenue levels in Capital Markets & Advisory Services more in-line with the 2005 levels, as these actions were already implemented. Some of the revenue reductions won't happen until later in the year, so the quarterly average at the end of the year will probably look more like the '05 run rate.   

Obviously there are expense reductions associated with right-sizing the business that will occur throughout the year, and those tend to lag the revenues somewhat. The head count reductions will include the 650 front office associates we announced last week, and there will be infrastructure reductions to come as well. Exit costs, severance, and goodwill-related charges should be around $0.05 of earnings, but we believe those will be more than offset by the gains associated with the sales of the businesses we are exiting. Also by the end of 2008 we are expecting trading assets to have been reduced by more than $100 billion.   

Let me switch to credit quality. On a held basis net charge-offs in the quarter increased 11 basis points to 91, or $2 billion. On a managed basis overall net losses on a consolidated basis in the quarter increased seven basis points, to 1.34% of the managed loan portfolios, or a portfolio worth $3.3 billion. Net losses in the consumer portfolios were 1.77%, versus 1.62 in the third quarter. The credit card represents almost 75% of total consumer losses. Managed consumer credit card losses as a percentage of the portfolio increased to 4.75%, from 4.67 in the third quarter, which is in-line with what we have been telling you for several quarters. 30-day plus delinquencies increased 21 basis points to 5.45%.   

We have seen an increase in delinquency in our card portfolio in those states most affected by housing problems. To give you a little insight, the quarter-over-quarter rate of increase in 30-day plus delinquencies in the combined states of California, Florida, Arizona, and Nevada, increased over five times the pace of the rest of the portfolio. That group makes up a little more than a quarter of our domestic consumer card book.   

We have mentioned before that we expect to be in the 5 to 5.5% range for overall consumer card losses for the full year of '08. That compares to the 4.75% we experienced in the fourth quarter. We still expect to be in that range, but our normal seasonal patterns, like the typical balance drop in the first quarter, may cause us to exceed it on a quarterly basis. Obviously further weakening in the economy could drive it higher.   

Credit quality in our consumer real estate business, mainly home equity, deteriorated as a result of the housing market conditions getting weaker. The problems to-date have been centered in the higher LTV home equity loans, principally in states that have experienced significant decreases in home prices. Home equity reported an increase in net charge-offs of $179 million, or 63 basis points, up from 20 basis points at the end of September. 30-day plus performing delinquencies are up 25 basis points to 1.26%. Nonperformers and home equity rose to 1.25% of the portfolio, from 82 basis points in the prior quarter.   

Even though our average refreshed FICO score remains strong at 721, and the combined loan to value is at 70%, we have seen a rise in the percentage of loans that have a CLTV above 90%, which is driven by the more recent vintages. 90% plus CLTV currently represents 21% of the loans, versus 17% in the third quarter. We believe net charge-offs in home equity will continue to rise, given the seasoning in the portfolio, and softness in the real estate values. We increased reserves for this portfolio to 84 basis points, but wouldn't be surprised to see losses cross the 100 basis point mark by the middle of this year, as we work through higher CLTV vintages.   

Now relative to the industry's performance, we believe that our results will continue to benefit from our relationship based direct-to-consumer strategy. Again, continued economic deterioration could drive losses higher. Our residential mortgage portfolio continues to perform well, with losses at only four basis points in the fourth quarter. While we have seen some deterioration in subsegments, namely our community reinvestment act portfolio under our low to moderate income programs, that total some 8% of the book, nothing really stands out to us at this point.   

Our Auto portfolio closed the year with approximately $25 billion in loans. As many of you remember, we exited auto leasing in 2001, so we are talking loans in this portfolio, not leases. Net charge-offs in the quarter were $99 million, or an annualized 1.53% of the portfolio, which is up 41 basis points or 22 million from the third quarter, due to normal seasonal patterns, as well as signs of deterioration in the most stressed housing markets.   

Switching to our Commercial portfolios, net charge-offs increased in the quarter to $381 million, or 47 basis points, up five basis points from the third quarter. Despite deterioration in Small Business and homebuilders, the overall portfolio has remained sound.   

Net losses in Small Business which are reported as commercial loan losses, are up $40 million from the third quarter, and the net charge-off rate has risen to 6.33% from 5.89. Excluding Small Business, Commercial net charge-offs increased $70 million from the third quarter, representing a charge-off ratio of 14 basis points. These small increases are still coming off historic lows, and part of the losses reflect net charge-offs from home builders which were approximately 19 million in the fourth quarter, a decline of two million from the third quarter.   

Criticized exposure from all Commercial rose from $10.8 billion in the third quarter to $17.6 billion, due to the addition of LaSalle which was around $5.2 billion, and an additional $1.5 billion at legacy Banc of America, due mainly to the homebuilder segment exposure. NPAs rose 2.6 billion to almost $6 billion, with LaSalle representing $1.2 billion of the increase, and that was $873 million in Commercial, and $339 million in Consumer, and legacy  Bank of America added $1.4 billion, again $183 million was Commercial, and about $1.2 billion consumer. As you would expect, additional consumer NPAs include home equity and residential mortgage, while additional commercial NPAs involved commercial real estate, homebuilders to be specific.   

Homebuilder exposure was $14 billion at year end from a utilized or outstanding view, and $21.6 billion in total commitments, reflecting the LaSalle additions. 39% of our homebuilder exposure is listed as criticized, and while it could move higher, we believe the portfolio is well-collateralized, and reflects both granularity and geographic diversity.   

Coming back to Small Business, losses have increased significantly throughout the past year. The sector remains one of the more important and faster-growing parts of the economy. One in which we grew revenue 13% over 2006, and earned more than $1 billion in 2007, despite higher losses and increased reserves.   

While our risk adjusted margins are still attractive in this business, our losses remain elevated. The deterioration has been driven by seasoning of some large 2005 and 2006 business card vintages. We have since instituted a number of underwriting changes, such as using more judgmental credit decisions, lowering initial line assignments, and changing our direct mail offerings.   

The results have been a 15 to 20 point increase in average FICOs at origination, 15 to 20% reductions in average line amounts, and a meaningful drop in approval rates. So while we will take time to work through these earlier vintages, Small Business remains a critical customer segment, with attractive, profitable growth opportunities for us.   

Looking again at the total loan book, 90 days past due on a managed basis increased five basis points to 66 basis points, while 30 days past due increased 33 basis points. The fourth quarter provision of $3.3 billion exceeded net charge-offs, resulting in the addition of 1.3 billion to the reserve. Deterioration drove approximately two-thirds of the increase, reflecting ongoing weakness in the housing market principally in home equity and the homebuilders sector of our commercial portfolio. Small business also experienced deterioration. The remaining one-third of reserve build was due to growth in seasoning, mainly in the Consumer Unsecured Lending, U.S. Card, and Foreign Card portfolios.   

Switching to net interest income, compared to the third quarter on a managed basis, net interest income was at $824 million, of which core which means excluding the trading-related represented 816 million. Adjusting for LaSalle, forward net interest income was up $346 million, or just over 3% on a linked-quarter basis.   

The reported decrease in the net interest margin on the managed basis of 14 basis points was driven by several factors. First, the impact of the Fed fund LIBOR spread during the quarter, secondly the impact of the LaSalle premium or goodwill being a noninterest-bearing asset drove just over a 15 basis point decline, third, a one-time benefit of restructuring our international aircraft leasing operation, and finally poor asset growth in funding. Going forward the Fed fund LIBOR spread impact is dissipated, such that when coupled with the rate environment, it should offset the absence of the one-time benefit, leaving our core net interest margin somewhat stable for this quarter.   

As you can see from the bowl chart, our interest rate positioning had become more liability-sensitive compared to the end of September. This change was primarily driven by actions we took, as we felt the downside risks had become greater than reflected in the forward rate curves. As rates reacted to signs of a slowing economy in the fourth quarter, we had shifted our cash flow swap off balance sheet position from 113 billion paid fixed, to a 34 billion receive fixed position, and that was our position at year end.   

I might note that as of today, we shifted back more closely to where we stood at the end of the third quarter, as this downside risk looks to now be embedded in the forward rates. We continue to benefit from curve steepening, but with a forward curve that reflects a 2.5% funds rate by the end of 2008, and may settle at 2.25 tonight. We think most of the downside risk is now built in, and that the Fed moves this morning are consistent with that.   

Just a couple of comments on expenses in the quarter. Obviously our efficiency ratio is elevated as a result of the losses in capital markets. Also, this quarter includes expenses for the Visa items. These costs were split equally between our Consumer bank and our Commercial banking group. GCIB incentive compensation costs were higher in the quarter, as we balanced the need to retain core personnel to execute our strategy going forward, against the weak trading performance. The fourth quarter included $140 million merger and restructuring costs for various acquisitions, the bulk of which were for LaSalle and U.S. Trust.   

Let me say a few things about capital. Tier 1 capital at the end of December was 6.87%, down from 8.22% at September 30th, due mainly to the acquisition of LaSalle which closed on October 1, and lower earnings in the fourth quarter. Since the LaSalle announcement in April, we have raised $1.6 billion in Tier 1 capital and preferred market, and we reduced our share repurchases.   

We remain committed to getting back to our 8% target, in order to fulfill our needs from the LaSalle and Countrywide acquisitions, and replenish capital for our reduced earnings in the second half of last year. While market conditions will dictate the ultimate timing of our actions, it is our intent to access the markets in the near future, and we have a variety of alternatives available to us. The ongoing earnings impact of these capital actions falls in the $0.10 a share range, plus or minus a couple of cents, excluding the impact of amounts related to Countrywide.   

The trading asset reduction related to our CMAS business restructure, will also help us in getting back to our Tier 1 target. Also as you know, we began marking to market our 8.2% investment in  China Construction Bank, increasing OCI by $8.4 billion net of tax. While Tier 1 was unaffected, it had a positive impact on the tangible and total capital ratios of about 50 basis points.   

One final comment before expanding on Ken's comments about 2008. The lower effective tax rate in the fourth quarter, reflects the reassessment and catch-up of our annual rate, given the lower earnings and a one-time tax benefit from the restructuring of our foreign commercial aircraft leasing operations. Looking to 2008, you should expect a more normal tax rate of 33 to 34% on a non-FTE basis.   

Going forward in 2008, there is considerable uncertainty about the economic environment. It is unclear what ramifications the housing downturn, higher energy costs, and the subprime prices will ultimately have, but we do feel good about our relative position in our businesses, as we think about delivering results in 2008 and beyond. As Ken mentioned, we are not in the recession camp, as we expect the economy to grow minimally and not contract, picking up momentum throughout the year, driven by moderate growth in both consumer and business investment spending. However, certain industries like homebuilders, and certain states, may look or feel recessionary during 2008.   

In talking about our '08, I think we have given you starting points as a base for LaSalle, so my comments about growth exclude its impact. The loan and deposit growth generated by the franchise are expect to benefit net interest income, as will the expected steepening of the yield curve. We expect mid-single digit growth in loans excluding the addition of LaSalle, to be driven by commercial, credit card, home equity, and unsecured loans.   

Deposits will grow as we continue to benefit from our market leadership and innovation, and we expect to grow faster than the market. Consequently, assuming the forward curves materialize, we expect growth in managed core net interest income to be in the high single-digit range on a normalized basis, and above that on a reported basis from the addition of LaSalle.   

Let me also remind you that the change in NII in first quarter is impacted by day count, as well as the fourth quarter of one-time leasing transactions that I mentioned earlier. Total revenue will be impacted by the bounce-back from trading losses, as well as lower equity investment gains. We think a run rate of expectations for equity gains would be around 300 to $400 million in 2008, and will be dependent on liquidity events with our customers, and dividends from our strategic investments.   

Excluding the impact of trading and equity gains, noninterest income should grow in the high-single digits, led by consumer fee increases in mortgage, card, and service charge revenues. Credit quality will continue as a headwind from the impact of the housing market conditions on consumer asset quality. Similarly, we expect to see challenges in the consumer dependent sectors of our commercial portfolios. Given our economic assumptions, we can see provision expense up 20% compared to reported 2007 lows.   

Obviously continuing deterioration including a recession could take this number higher. However our strong market position, attractive risk adjusted margins, and substantial distribution advantages, position us well versus the competition. On the expense side, we are aiming for strong positive operating leverage from heavy expense control, as well as savings realized from the LaSalle integration. These cost savings are expect to slightly exceed our estimates, and we expect to get more than half of our all-in savings target of $1.25 billion in 2008.   

Since we are on expenses, remember that similar to the first quarter of the last two years, we will have an additional expense of $0.04 to $0.05 in EPS, related to our expenses certain equity-based compensation awards for retirement eligible employees, or FAS 123. Now to reiterate what Ken said up front, let me say while we are cognizant of the headwinds in the economy and it's impact on the marketplace, we feel good about our relative position, and absent things getting dramatically worse, think '08 will be a reasonable year for earnings.   

With that, let me open it up for questions, and I thank you for your attention.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) We go first to the site of Ed Najarian from  Merrill Lynch, your line is open.   

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning.   

KEN LEWIS: Good morning.   

ED NAJARIAN: A couple of questions. First of all, you held the line nicely in the fourth quarter, in terms of your credit card loss level, and consequently have held the line in terms of your outlook in the 5 to 5.50 range. I guess the first question is, is there anything about what is going on in the economy, or the deterioration with the consumer in general, that would lead you to, and also what is going on with some of the other card providers, and what they are reporting, would lead to you raise that guidance?   

KEN LEWIS: No. I think we feel fine about the guidance, Ed, because as you know we have been pretty accurate telling what you it was going to look like quarter to quarter in the past. The only thing that would change it would be, is if you hit an actual recession and it was pretty severe, and then of course you have to go back to the drawing boards, but given our outlook, the 5.00 to 5.50 looks pretty good. As Joe said, you may get a first quarter anomaly because of the reduced balances, which is typical, that you may go over it, but it looks pretty solid absent a recession.   

ED NAJARIAN: Secondarily, you alluded to some more capital issuance, and also we have had a decline in the market, a pretty significant decline in the market value of  China Construction Bank, which I know doesn't impact Tier 1, but does impact tangible now. Can you put more color around exactly what, or close to what your plans are in the first half of the year for capital-raising initiatives?   

KEN LEWIS: Ed, what we try to do in the remarks that we gave you a few minutes ago, was to give you a framework for that. You will recall a little over a week ago, we talked about the Countrywide acquisition would require a couple of billion dollars incremental, to what would be issued in that transaction to support the asset base. You couple that with what it would take to get us back towards 8%, or towards our target, and that is kind of the way you frame our needs now. The blend, we obviously have a number of alternatives to us from a preferred standpoint, and that is where we would most likely be looking.   

ED NAJARIAN: Let me make the question a little easier, or would we be looking for more of a capital raise than the 2 billion that you announced with respect to --?   

KEN LEWIS: Yes.   

ED NAJARIAN: Countrywide?   

KEN LEWIS: Oh, yes, and that's why I framed it in mind of the EPS impact I mentioned earlier.   

ED NAJARIAN: Should we assume the vast majority of that capital raise will be in some kind of trust preferred Tier 1 type of non-common equity type of issuance?   

KEN LEWIS: We are still evaluating that, but obviously whether it is preferred or whether it has got some component of convertible, the dividend versus the EPS dilution impact of some kind of convertible would be encompassed in the $0.10, plus or minus the $0.02 that I gave you earlier.   

ED NAJARIAN: Sorry to take up too much time here, but just one more. It looks like your subprime CDO writedowns are less significant than some of your competitors, and you alluded to the fact that I guess most of the driver of your decision process for how much to take in subprime CDO writedowns was a mark to model process. It sounds like you are taking a mark to model process, and assuming that you will hold the CDO positions through to maturity. Is that the correct way to look at the vast majority of that?   

JOE PRICE: It is probably the other way, Ed. As we kind of come to the view from a management standpoint that a lot of these structures terminate, and therefore we flow through to the net asset values of the underlying securities, and that would really be it.   

The ones that we have kind of cash flow to term, in essence we looked at those and said they are more like an I/O, so you kind of cash flow to termination, and just value that piece and that kind of puts an I/O floor on the value of that, but it is probably more of a termination view, than a hold to term view that you referenced earlier. I think what you will find is we seem to have been a bigger multi-sector player, as opposed to straight subprime embedded in a lot of the structures, and that probably tends to be one of the biggest drivers, and obviously the vintage of the underlying portion that is subprime.   

KEN LEWIS: Ed, we have tried. We have obviously tried our very best to look at others and see their markdowns, and it gets real hard, because the paper is just different.   

ED NAJARIAN: Right. Okay. All right. Thank you very much.   

KEN LEWIS: Thanks.   

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Ron Mandle from GIC. Your line is open.   

RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, thanks. I was going to ask pretty much the same question about CDOs. My only concern is if I read the table right, it is CDO squared, so anything you can elaborate on that, you know, regarding the underlying attachment points, that type of thing?   

JOE PRICE: Ron, if you look back in the comments I made earlier, I tried to give you a feel for how much of the underlying collateral was not subprime related, and then the vintage that was in it. I think I could probably point to you how much of the collateral was not subprime as being the primary driver, you know, from that standpoint.   

RON MANDLE: Okay. And then just so would it be safe to assume that the subprime part you have written down very, very heavily, and the non-subprime part you have written down slightly? Would that be a way to think about it?   

JOE PRICE: It is a way to think about it. It varies by particular structure, because in some is may be earlier vintages subprime, that would not make that necessarily correct, but I think in general that is a fair way for you to be thinking about it.   

RON MANDLE: Okay. Just one other thing. You mentioned that in your guidance that we should think that the loan loss provision could be up 20% or so, and I was just wondering, is that managed or reported that you are thinking about there?   

JOE PRICE: Reported.   

RON MANDLE: And managed, what is your thought in that regard?   

JOE PRICE: You know, if you take, I probably for that purpose would take the fourth quarter run rate, and build some kind of similar increase off of that from a charge-off, or a managed loss standpoint.   

RON MANDLE: Managed losses, so the fourth quarter managed losses times 4 plus 20%?   

JOE PRICE: I am not going to get real specific, but I think that is probably a reasonable way to think about it.   

RON MANDLE: Okay. Thanks very much.   

OPERATOR: We can go next to the site of Meredith Whitney from Oppenheimer. Your line is open.   

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: I have a couple of questions. First of all, Joe, if you can just walk me through the insurance on page 19 of the slide deck, and because I am getting 12.1 from the prior period, and then 8.1 from the current period, it doesn't show where you have marked down, I know you breezed through the numbers, in terms of where you marked down the insurance exposures, and since that is such a timely and relevant issue, could you walk us through how you think about those exposures, what markdown you took, what preparation you have taken, in terms of subsequent downgrades by the rating agencies on those companies that are providing the insurance, and then just a follow-up if I may?   

JOE PRICE: That is a mouthful, but let me say if you look at the column before the 12, you can see that our insured exposure was about a little over 4 billion for the subprime-related pieces, and as a starting point, let me give you a tiny bit of background on the underlying exposure. For the CDO squared exposure that is insured, you made notice in one of the footnotes there, it has got more than 35% of subprime collateral, we classified it as subprime, but for that CDO squared one, there is over 70% of the underlying collateral that is not subprime, and as that is pre-'06/'07, so that gives you that one.   

And then on the high grade positions that are there, they are about 50/50 subprime, non-subprime collateral, and then again when you look at the subprime collateral, or a little over half, I think, is pre-'06/'07 vintage, so that kind of gives you a feel for the quality of the underlying paper from that standpoint.   

We took about a $200 million valuation allowance on what would be deemed expected recovery from insurance after we ran through those models, and that was based on the applicable insurer, you know. It is spread amongst a number of them. I will note that the one that is most notable in the marketplace, ACA, we are not relying on, for coverage there. So kind of if you go back and say what is the valuation, which again would be much more limited, given the underlying collateral what we expect there, and then you hair cut it, and that was our 200 number.   

MEREDITH WHITNEY: If I could follow-up on that, before I have the other follow-up, I understand regardless of what asset class insurance is covering, if the said insurer gets downgraded, the insurance covering any of those asset classes gets devalued, so it wouldn't really matter. Is that the right way to think about it, whether it is prime or subprime, the effective insurance is worth less?   

JOE PRICE: Yes. Yes, but you obviously look to your underlying value first, and you assume what kind of diminution of value there would be to be able to size your reliance on insurance, and my point earlier was, that sizing of that reliance is relatively small, and then do you as you described, regardless of what it is, if you are relying on insurance, you have to assess it based on the collectibility of that particular insurer.   

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay, is that what is the 4.1 billion of insurance, that is the only hedge you have, is that right?   

JOE PRICE: On the super senior, yes, that would be fair.   

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. And then the other question I had which is on the, you guys have been great about your thoughts on consumer credit, and that wasn't as Ed said, tracked where you expected and where we expected, but the commercial side looked like it spiked up. Was there any one item in that commercial, the commercial book that caused it to spike up, and has anything changed from a qualitative perspective, that you can illuminate us with please?   

JOE PRICE: When you say spike up, you mean in?   

MEREDITH WHITNEY: In the loss and delinquency numbers.   

JOE PRICE: No. Again, if you think about Criticized, for instance, which spiked up quite a bit, it was principally driven by the addition of the LaSalle assets, and so a lot of your commercial statistics, remember that that franchise had a lot more commercial orientation to it, and less consumer which was one of the attractive parts about the ability to grow it is driving that.   

And then within the legacy book, the spike up, remember that our Small Business statistics statistics roll into the Commercial statistics, so that was part of it and that is why we went into a little more detail there for you, and then the rest is principally homebuilder or homebuilder-related driven.   

MEREDITH WHITNEY: I am sorry, I lied. One last follow-up. If you guys look at the option that you have on your CCB ownership, and then look at the capital levels that you have now, and then the opportunities that come about because we are in a distressed market for financials, what is your priority, in terms of securing the capital levels to the 8%, or taking advantage of an opportunity that may come about this year? That is it and I am done.   

JOE PRICE: It is a combination, Meredith.   

MEREDITH WHITNEY: That is all I get?   

JOE PRICE: Yes.   

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. All right. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Mike Mayo from  Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.   

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi. Your period end credit card balances were up about 6% in only three months, I am wondering if that's indicative of stress with consumers, or anything else going on?   

JOE PRICE: Mike, obviously there has been a little dip in payment rates, not, I am talking U.S. Consumer credit card here for a minute, but not significant, and we really didn't see by the time the end of the year rolled around, we didn't see that big of a spike in kind of number of customers making minimum payments, or that big of change and customers paying in full, so I think it is generally the fourth quarter balance-driven seasonality, coupled with that slight change in payments. Probably the Canadian card acquisition, it was relatively small in terms of the size of growth, as it being attributed to that, but it came in I guess on the average balance basis also.   

MIKE MAYO: And then separately, Ken, you said you expect to earn over $4 this year, I am simply trying to reconcile that with an operating number for the fourth quarter, and if I simply take your one-time items on page 10 of the presentation slides, you get a number, I don't know, maybe $0.92 or so, and if you annualize that $0.92, you are at about $3.70 for the year, so maybe I am missing some one-time item that is not on that page, or maybe there is something else. Because even when you are at the 3.70, you said take $0.10 off the capital raising, and take $0.05 off for some of the retirement expenses, so what should be offsetting those negatives to get you over $4.00, at least conceptually?   

KEN LEWIS: Mike, the fist thing is for the first time in several years we have wind at our back on our NII, and so we said high-single digits even before LaSalle, and that is probably the single biggest driver, that wind at our back on NII. That is going to be a pretty big number. Then we mentioned the other pretty nice increase in noninterest income, but if I had to say just one single item exceptionally, it would be NII.   

MIKE MAYO: And the Fed cut rates 75 basis points this morning. What is the impact on your financials, and then what do you think the impact will be on the borrowers?   

JOE PRICE: On our financial, Mike, you go back to the comments we made earlier. The way we position the Company and the way we were thinking about the forwards would have had us already thinking about a 2.5 kind of end of the year funds rate, so while different parts of the curve structure obviously changed differently, that in essence would have been embedded in kind of the discussions we are having, unless it incrementally drives rates lower than what was already in the 4s, so that is kind of that side of it.   

On the customer side, obviously we have got a number of variable rate type of instruments out there that reprice based on various indices, Prime or LIBOR, et cetera, and is it will obviously have an impact from a customer's borrowing stand point on that side.   

MIKE MAYO: I guess what I mean by that last question, is  Bank of America's funding costs, at least relative to Fed funds have gone up, as all bank's funding costs have gone up. How much do you look to pass on those costs to the end borrower, and therefore that kind of mutes some of the benefits of the Fed rate reductions on the end borrower?   

JOE PRICE: I am having a little trouble. If you go back to looking at the best way to think about it probably is to fault you back to the bubble charts that we have got, as opposed to individual line items, because that captures everything on a forward basis, and that would be kind of the best way to think about a down rate. You probably shoot back up to the 930s, you know, and think about it there, because again these things are based off the forward curves.   

But on the funding side, clearly we have a lot of market-based funding that would come through, and then on the deposit side, obviously there would be some pass-through, not dollar for dollar, given the competitive environment we all live in, but there would be a piece of it coming through on that side, also, and that would be now that the LIBOR spread is a little more in-line. That is probably what drives as much on the deposit pricing side as the pure Fed funds.   

MIKE MAYO: Lastly, this is not just unique to you, but you intend to raise capital, yet the dividend level seems kind of precious to maintain. I just conceptually, why is the dividend so important to maintain when your are raising so much more capital, and your tangible equity ratio is at 3.6%?   

KEN LEWIS: Just because in a, if you think about it over a broader term, or have a longer term perspective, we will get back to the capital levels pretty quickly, and return to a more normal state with where we think earnings will go, so it is just, we think it is so temporary that that is a better way to go, Mike.   

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.   

JOE PRICE: Thanks, Mike.   

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Nancy Bush from NAB Research LLC. Your line is open.   

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Yes, guys, I am going through all the numbers here, and I think I will have to get a transcript in the end to sort of sort them all out. We are all looking to see whether companies have, 'kitchen-sinked' the quarter. Do you think you kitchen-sinked the quarter, and if you didn't, where didn't you kitchen-sink it?   

KEN LEWIS: I think we tried to be as prudent as possible in assessing everything we could assess, and do the right thing, but you do have parameters under which you operate, and you have accountants looking at the things that you do, so within reason we think we did what we should have done.   

NANCY BUSH: If there is sort of a point of weakness, is it in credit costs, is it in more mark downs, if we have to poke and probe the model for next year's points of possible negative surprise, Joe, where do you see it primarily? Is it the credit cost?   

JOE PRICE: Nancy, we try to give you in the outlook there, kind of a view on credit costs. Obviously if the economy continue to say deteriorate farther, that would, that is a soft spot, and likewise if we were to see other market disruption events, probably driven by credit quite frankly, that would be the type of areas that we would have to be focused on throughout the year next year.   

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Secondly, you made a couple of a allusions to market share gains and deposit gains in the fourth quarter in the consumer bank. I think you said you had regained traction in deposit growth, and you picked up some market share. Can you just tell me what was going on there, A) why were you finding you were losing share, and what happened in the fourth quarter to regain share and grow consumer deposits faster? Is there a product issue? Emphasis issue? What was going on?   

JOE PRICE: Yes. Well, you may remember over the last year or so coming off really the MB&A merger where we probably lost some traction on retail deposits, because that is what we are really focused on here on your question, and it took longer than we expected to regain traction.   

We had just begun to emphasize, to refocus on that throughout really the last year or so, but it really probably took more hold in the last half of this year, and got us back on square footings taking advantage of our distribution model, et cetera. Now having said that, it still remains very competitive from a pricing standpoint, but it is really focused, and deliberate focus on trying to drive some of our core products.   

KEN LEWIS: Nancy, we have asked ourselves the same question, and it just took us a little longer than we thought to regain the momentum, and I can't really, we can't really pinpoint it further than that.   

NANCY BUSH: If I can just ask one final question. Joe, on the Small Business losses, you gave quite a bit of detail, but that 6% plus annualized losses there is still an interesting number, an eye-catching number. Is it primarily the composition of the loans? Was there some lesson to be learned in underwriting? What is the biggest issue there?   

JOE PRICE: Yes. Nancy, that is correct. When we looked at our market share several years ago in Small Business, we clearly were under penetrated given the size of our franchise, and our scope, and looked to grow that business. We probably defaulted to underwriting some of that in more of a consumer scoring oriented model, and have since learned that you probably need to put more judgmental underwriting in that versus pure scoring.   

We cut line sizes, probably advanced a little higher amounts per line, and a number of other things, and those vintages which would principally be the '05/'06, vintages are what is driving a lot of our issue there, and again earlier in '07 we began to curtail that, but as those vintages come through, that is what we are seeing. Absolutely there were some lessons learned there.   

KEN LEWIS: Nancy, you also see that the evidence of that is much lower approval rates.   

NANCY BUSH: So we can expect to see losses perhaps in the near term continue to rise there, and then perhaps decline in the latter of part of the year?   

JOE PRICE: As those vintages season, that would be correct, and we are not quite as high volumes as we were that period, in terms of new balances.   

KEN LEWIS: They are relatively small in aggregate. That is the good news.   

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: We will go next to the site of Matthew O'Connor of  UBS. Your line is open.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST,  UBS: Good morning.   

KEN LEWIS: Good morning, Matt.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: You mentioned tightening underwriting standards for new loans and Small Business and a couple of other areas. Do you have the flexibility and are you reducing lines that are still outstanding for credit card and home equity?   

JOE PRICE: Yes. Each product differs, but you obviously have flexibility on risk-based pricing and other factors in the card business, which if a customer doesn't accept, then you in essence provide no more funding capacity to, and they would wind down if they didn't accept those changes, and things of that nature, so a rather detailed or specific parameters in each product, and then clearly on the home equity side, if someone's equity in the home, or the CLTV has dropped through the floor, you have flexibility there.   

The tougher ones are the ones that are borderline on the home equity side, but you absolutely have flexibility.   

KEN LEWIS: Matt, actually particularly on credit card, it is a very robust risk-based pricing model.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: And just to follow up on cards specifically, I think MBNA's model was very high lines to encourage balance transfers, so I am just trying to gauge how aggressive you are there. If a customer is still current, and they have a $50,000 line outstanding, would you reign that in a little bit, or still paying as is, you probably don't touch it at this time?   

KEN LEWIS: It depends on what we see from an overall standpoint. Otherwise, if you look at the total behavior, you look at other lines, but if they are paying as expected, we wouldn't touch it. I mean, if they are behaving not just with us, but if they are behaving across the whole spectrum of their debt accordingly, then we wouldn't do anything.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. All right. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from the site of Betsy Graseck from  Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.   

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. On Small Business, just one follow-up. Have you done anything to assess the degree to which the deterioration exposure is coming from housing-related areas?   

JOE PRICE: Yes, but I guess I would say that with most all the consumer products to the extent we are seeing deterioration, it tends to, it is clearly leaning towards those states that have had the most housing challenges in them, Betsy, from that standpoint.   

But this one has the added pieces of the '06/'07 vintages in addition, and then I would say probably on Small Business, you tend to see probably a heavier utilization of related home equity lines than you might see in some other places, which again would drive you into those higher home price depreciation states to where some of it is centered, but overriding that would be this vintage discussion, as we said earlier.   

BETSY GRASECK: And the timeframe for the seasoning in these portfolios is roughly what, now?   

JOE PRICE: You know, probably, I am generalizing here, but an 18-month kind of run.   

BETSY GRASECK: And just in a little bit bigger picture, what kind of economic environment do you have baked into your Tier 1 ratio outlook?   

KEN LEWIS: Very, very modest growth, virtually none in the first half, and then picking up in the second, and the third and fourth quarters, to possibly get to a 2% growth rate by year end, but a very modest growth but not a recession.   

BETSY GRASECK: If there were a recession, would that change how you are thinking about your Tier 1 targets?   

JOE PRICE: Well, no, but it may lengthen the time a little bit, or I don't know how severe you mean by recession, so if it is a mild short recession, probably not much, but then you have to determine how deep and how long do you think it is going to be.   

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And in the outlook for the provisions where you are looking for the 20% plus on a reported basis year-on-year roughly --   

JOE PRICE: Right.   

BETSY GRASECK: Do you have explicit expectations for housing values? I know it is very granular market by market that you need to think about housing, but I am just wondering if you have, as a result of the analysis you do, an expectation for the type of housing values that you are anticipating the drive to that provision expectation?   

JOE PRICE: I think I would probably move you to like the Case-Shiller type of expectations, and those would give you in the most distressed states, high single-digit, maybe even low double-digit kind of year-over-year 12-month rolling, but it depends on which state.   

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. You are using that kind of input into your forecast?   

JOE PRICE: Right, right.   

BETSY GRASECK: And then lastly if I recall correctly your first lien mortgage exposure, you have a variety of insurance, or hedging that you have done against that, and I would assume those are still in place? Is that correct? Has that changed at all with what has been going on with the insurance mono line?   

JOE PRICE: No, and remember that our insurance is not, and our insurance for that portfolio is not mono-line driven. We sell the second loss position, or basically insure it with a funded structure, so that there is not counterparty risk, and we have some with the GSEs, a slight amount with the GSEs, so you can think of that as a counterparty, but the bulk of it doesn't have real counterparty risk on it.   

BETSY GRASECK: Has that at all been tapped yet?   

JOE PRICE: No.   

BETSY GRASECK: And it is on the aggregate net charge-offs for that first lien portfolio?   

JOE PRICE: Yes. Well, it is individual buckets, so it is not like a blanket policy. You have got specific loans underlying this particular traunch of structure.   

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, but none of them have been tapped at all?   

JOE PRICE: No.   

BETSY GRASECK: Lastly on the CCB option that you have, is it possible to discuss what types of circumstances would lead you to exercise the option that you have to invest further in CCB?   

KEN LEWIS: We are contemplating all of that as we speak, and so I can't give you an answer, other than it is under active discussion, in terms of do we invest more and/or monetize some portion of the gain, and we are just in the embryonic stages of deciding that.   

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. With the Fed action today, I realize that your expectation had been for a lower Fed fund rate given the forward curve, but it does seem like we are getting it earlier in the year than we had anticipated, or at least the forward curve had anticipated?   

KEN LEWIS: Right.   

BETSY GRASECK: Does that impact those kind of discussions or decisions?   

JOE PRICE: Not on those, not those discussions. Obviously it may accelerate benefit from a margin standpoint, but not on the discussions that Ken was alluding to.   

BETSY GRASECK: All right, regarding the CCB.   

JOE PRICE: Right.   

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: As I am showing no further questions at this time, I will turn it over to Mr. Lewis and Mr. Price for any final remarks.   

JOE PRICE: We thank you, and no final remarks. Have a good day!   

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's teleconference. Have a great day! You may disconnect at any time.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080129e41m000p1
  


 HD
 Q3  2007   Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,657 words
   PD
18 October 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
KEVIN STITT, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: This presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results. And that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. And with that, let me turn it over to Ken Lewis.   

   TD
KEN LEWIS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Kevin. Good morning, by now, you know that  Bank of America reported quarterly earnings of $3.7 billion, or $0.82 per diluted share, down approximately 31% from a year ago, and down 36% from the second quarter of this year. You also know by now that lower earnings were largely due to market dislocation in the third quarter that took their toll on our capital markets business. Unfortunately, this will be one of those quarters where we spend most of our time discussing areas that underperformed at the expense of those businesses that consistently contributed to the bulk of our earnings and furthermore have been the main drivers in helping us grow. While some of the underperformance was difficult to avoid, given the widespread market malaise, we believe we should have performed better and we were assessing all of the businesses where that is the case. And by the way, we are equally displeased with return on equity of 11%, which is mediocre at best. Our business model by design acts as a defense for exactly what occurred in the third quarter, and although we are very disappointed at the magnitude of the hit we took, the Street and our other businesses allows us to maintain our strategic direction and allows us to be opportunistic whenever or wherever such opportunities arise. I am not forecasting fourth quarter results. But if the economy maintains its present pace for the rest of the year,  Bank of America will produce earnings for full year 2007 that are still very strong. I make these observations only to bring more attention to how our banking model has evolved over the past five to 10 years.   

Before I move to the business level discussion, let me mention a few things about LaSalle. We closed out LaSalle acquisition on October 1. We look forward to expanding the  Bank of America brand in Chicago, and introducing the brand in Michigan. Customers in markets LaSalle operated in will now have access to the largest distribution network in financial services and an extensive array of products to meet their needs. We have not changed our financial assumptions on LaSalle that we discussed in April. In the fourth quarter, we expect LaSalle to be accretive by $0.01 or so before restructuring charges. We will talk more about the impact of LaSalle in 2008 when we meet with you to discuss fourth quarter results.   

Let me spend the next few moments touching on earnings in each of our businesses, before turning over to Joe to delve a little deeper into the results. Starting with global consumers and small business banking, earnings of $2.5 billion in the quarter are up modestly on a link quarter basis, but down from a year ago due to higher provision. Revenue grew 6% from a year ago, reflecting strong fee growth muted by lower net interest income growth. Product sales remain strong with net new checking accounts reaching a new record. Revenue growth was offset by the higher provision expense. While charge-offs were in line with expectations, we built reserves due to the seasoning of several growth portfolios and the impact of the weak U.S. housing market. Global wealth and investment management had a good quarter and reflected the addition of U.S. Trust on July 1. Earnings were $599 million, up 17% from a year ago but down 4% from the second quarter as we recorded a small gain from the sale of our remaining closed end funds in the second quarter. The integration of U.S. Trust has gone as planned. U.S. Trust added about $230 million in revenue and $200 million in expense including about $45 million in amortization and intangibles. Assets under management rose to $710 billion, with the addition of U.S. Trust, which was about $116 billion, as well as legacy  Bank of America growth. I will remind you to expect a reduction of approximately $65 billion in assets under management with the fourth quarter sale of Marsico.   

Global corporate investment banking earned $100 million for the quarter which is down from both comparative quarters. Capital markets and advisory services lost $717 million in the quarter, versus earnings of $298 million a year ago, and a record $641 million in the second quarter. And Joe is going to elaborate further the reasons for this performance. Business lending earned $379 million, down from both last year and last quarter, driven mainly by higher provisioning compared to both periods as well as lower leasing gains when compared to the second quarter. Global treasury services earned $558 million, up slightly compared to the second quarter, although down from last year, as we divested a small merchant services business. Our equity gains were a bit stronger than we expected and included dividends from our strategic investments.   

Before I turn it over to Joe, let me summarize by saying the obvious: that overall earnings in the quarter were not acceptable to us, but still reflected momentum in several of our core businesses. In July, at the [prior] news discussion, we said we were looking for GDP growth of 3% in the second half of the year, but we were concerned about domestic consumption and spending given the prolonged housing slump, subprime issues, and higher fuel prices. We now expect growth in the fourth quarter to be around 2% with a little upside due to export strength. However, we remain concerned about the risk I just mentioned. While we will give you more detail in January, we are looking for GDP growth in 2008 to be around 2% as well, which -- not strong but enough to keep the economy in a growth mode.   

Finally, I want to mention one thing that has gotten a lot of attention with investors in the media in the past month. In the fourth quarter, we will mark-to-market our initial $3 billion investment in  China Construction Bank. Excluding the value of our options, which allow us to increase our ownership stake from 8.2% to 19.1%, the value of our investment was approximately $18 billion at September 30. The after-tax impact of the appreciation will not flow through earnings but instead flows through OCI, increasing our equity and book value. With that, I will turn it over to Joe to expand a bit on some important directives.   

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken. Let me spend a few minutes delving into some of our business metrics before I talk in detail about capital markets and advisory services credit quality and some other topics. In global consumer and small business banking -- and you can see this on slide seven -- as Ken mentioned, we had good revenue growth that was offset by higher provisioning for total earnings of $2.5 billion in the quarter. We achieved record sales performance in the third quarter of 13 million units. That's up 12% over last year. New customer generation continues with net new retail checking account openings of 757,000, and this is up a bit from record openings a year ago, continuing the strong momentum we experienced over the past two years. As you can see on slide nine, total retail deposit balances including our wealth management balances are up $5 billion, or just over 1% from the second quarter, and $17 billion, or 4%, from last year. Debit purchase volume increased 11% over last year, and revenue grew by 10% or $51 million. Net new retail accounts drove service charge growth up $108 million, or 8%, over last year. Card services revenue grew 6% from last year, as [ending] managed loans were up 11%. Comparing earnings in this business to last year is tough, as we are coming off the credit loss lows resulting from the bankruptcy reforms. And new account growth within card services was [3.7] million for the quarter, reflecting strong sales efforts in direct mail and e-commerce. Our more profitable franchise sales still represent over a quarter of our sales and e-commerce represents 19%. Our balanced transfer programs highlighted at our Investor Day in February are beginning to roll out and should benefit growth as we move into 2008. Sales of the small business products across the company including both loan and deposit products continue to set new highs and were up 24% from a year ago.   

First mortgage originations across the company were approximately $27 billion, an increase of 27% from last year, but down 8% from the second quarter. The increase from last year reflects our recent initiatives to grow our share of the mortgage market. And while down on a linked quarter basis due to seasonality in the terminal and the mortgage industry, we feel with our performance in the third quarter, we once again gained market share. The success of our direct to consumer focus gained more status last quarter as we were recognized as the leader in this category. Since the national launch in late April of our No Fee Mortgage Plus product, the banking center application volume is up 12% versus the same period last year. Average home equity loans were up 24% from last year, and were up 5% from the second quarter.   

As Ken covered the highlights of our wealth management business, let me now turn to other, which is essentially equity investment results. Equity investment gains for the total corporation were $904 million, which exceeded our expectations. Included in the third quarter was a dividend of $353 million from  China Construction Bank, which included a special dividend of $184 million, prior to CCB's recent share listing. As we have said in the past, we estimate a base of about $300 million to $500 million in equity gains a quarter with market conditions dictating anything above that.   

Finally, let me turn to GCIB and address capital markets and advisory services. Then you can follow this on slide 11. Last quarter we were pointing out record earnings in this business. This quarter, unfortunately, we are pointing to record losses. Consequently, I will go into more detail than usual in order to provide the level of transparency that most of you are looking for. I am not going to go through the market conditions we operated in during the quarter, as I'm sure you have been well schooled, other than to say it was a tough debt market and our equity and advisory businesses are not of the size to offset the loss in revenue we experienced on the debt side. Now, as Ken said, CMAS had a loss of $717 million versus record results last year of $641 million. Revenue fell $2.9 billion from a positive $2.7 billion to a negative $184 million, partially offset by lower expenses of $702 million as a result of performance-related incentives. Within CMAS, we run four businesses: liquid products, credit products, structured products and equities. On the liquid products side, which includes interest rate products, foreign exchange, commodities, and municipal finance, we produced $585 million in revenue for the quarter, with strong results in interest rate products and foreign exchange, and tempering what would have otherwise been a record quarter, with the negative impact of correlations breaking down between cash and hedge positions, and municipal finance.   

Now, before going into other capital markets businesses, let me address credit underwriting and the related marks we took this quarter. We took a negative mark of $247 million pre-tax, net of $528 million in loan fees on the loans that we have underwritten and where we are above our intended hold levels on completed deals and on deals in our forward pipeline. Of these marks, $173 million reflected in other income within the credit products group. The remaining $74 million is recorded in trading account profits and our structured products group and as I said, totaled $247 million in the quarter net of fees. After considering loan fees, we took marks on all deals down to a level where we believe the paper would clear the market. Our share of the leverage loan and high yield forward calendar was $28 billion at September 30, compared to $33 billion at June 30. During the quarter, we added $8.1 billion in new commitments, closed and syndicated $700 million, funded $4.3 billion that has yet to be syndicated, and had $8.4 billion fall away. Our exposure is concentrated in senior bank debt and we actively syndicate bridge exposure. Now, in contrast to some others, we have only modest exposure into covenant light B loans, second lien, or subordinated positions where the market disruption has had the most severe impact. Now, as I just noted from a funding standpoint, on the leverage side, that September 30, we had $4.3 billion in excess of our designated hold positions. And while this is elevated from our normal inventory position, it is clearly manageable. In addition, we have $5.4 billion funded in excess of our designated hold levels in the commercial mortgage and investment grade portfolios. And while not unusual due to the warehousing to distribution nature of this business, the funding level is slightly elevated, although again very manageable.   

Now, let me spend a few minutes on the other items impacting these businesses. Within credit products, including the marks I just discussed, revenue was a negative $697 million for the quarter, a decline of $1.4 billion from the second quarter. Banking fees in the high grade markets held up well as that market continued to function orderly. However, fees on the leverage side dropped significantly from the record last quarter, as the market disruption brought issuance to a halt for much of the third quarter. Trading revenue had a negative swing of $1.2 billion. We were not well positioned from a directional standpoint for what happened in the quarter, and this was aggravated by a decoupling of hedge correlations. Additionally, as you've heard us say over the past few years, we've been building our investor client businesses, and have been more active in the market making arena. Correlation between market making positions and associated hedges broke down as credit indices became extremely volatile, and different points of single name credit curves diverged. Within our CLO warehouse and in the numbers I just referenced, we had relatively modest markdowns of approximately $40 million as we reduced our exposure from approximately $3 billion at the end of June to about half that at the end of September. The third business within CMAS is structured products, which includes residential mortgage and asset-backed securities, commercial mortgages, structured credit trading, and structured securities, including our CEO business. Results in the quarter reflected a negative swing in revenue of $1.2 billion and also includes the relevant portion of the loan commitment marks I discussed earlier.   

In RMBS we had a negative swing in revenue of $155 million due mainly to trading losses on our nonagency inventory, as many of our hedges were in agency-based product and spread relationships decoupled. Our inventory peaked at just over $10 billion in the quarter and now stands at less than $3 billion. And our asset-backed business, which is where we conduct our subprime securitization business, while still a positive number -- we had a negative swing compared to the second quarter, as issuance activity was limited and we incurred only modest loss on the subprime warehouse. We reduced our inventory significantly in this space over the last year in order to limit our exposure to the asset class. We had inventory of just under $2 billion at the end of September.   

Our commercial real estate business had a negative swing in revenues of $155 million due mainly to fees being well off our normal run rate given the slowdown in the market. We experienced a negative swing in trading revenues and structured credit trading of $343 million driven mainly by the breakdown in expected correlations between positions and related hedges. We also booked around a $100 million loss on the CDO pipeline warehouse and just under $200 million associated with financings of mezzanine CDO paper. Our CDO pipeline warehouse stood at just over $1 billion at the end of September. Banking fees in this business were down around $100 million due to the market shutting down in CDOs.   

Now, the final business within CMAS is equities, which produced revenue of $305 million, compared to $535 million in the second quarter. This decline was driven by lower client activity in the equity capital markets and equity derivatives coupled with reduced trading results. We are not satisfied with our performance this quarter in capital markets and advisory services. And while we fared comparatively well in the core client driven leveraged finance and subprime businesses, we got [called in] to break down a hedge correlations principally in our sales and trading operations, facilitating several client trades, and on a couple of directional calls. And while we're comfortable with our overall risk management practices, these levels of breakdowns and traditional pricing relationships and correlations as Ken mentioned earlier will influence future determinations of how much risk we carry. Now, as you've heard other market participants discuss, we do much of the disruption in the quarter as more short term in nature and have seen the markets begin to free up in a number of areas. That said, some areas will take an extended period of time to normalize, and some will probably not return to pre-disruption levels.   

Now, let me switch to credit quality which you can see on slide 14. Trends this quarter in charge-offs were in line with our expectations expressed earlier this year at various times. Overall, consumer and commercial credit quality remain sound. Now given current market conditions, we begin to see some softness in certain sectors causing provision to be a little higher than earlier predicted. Managed net credit losses across all businesses were 1.27%, down 4 basis points from the second quarter. Net charge-offs this quarter dropped 1 basis point, or 1 basis point to 80 basis points. 90 days past due on a managed basis dropped from 62 to 61 basis points, while 30-day past dues showed an increase of 16, to 1.98%. Nonperforming assets increased 11 basis points to 43, and third quarter provision of $2 billion exceeded net charge-offs, resulting in the addition of $457 million to the reserve. This reserve build was driven by seasoning and higher loss expectations and several portfolios we've targeted for growth including small business, which was about 50% of the increase, and home equity, or about 30%. We also built commercial reserves principally related to our homebuilder exposures.   

Now, as expected, managed consumer credit card losses as a percent of the portfolio dropped to 4.67% from 5.02% in the second quarter, which is in line with what we've been telling you for the last several quarters. We expect the net loss ratio after peaking in the second quarter and then declining in the third will begin to move back toward the 5 to 5.5% range we talked to you about in February. 90 day plus delinquencies and consumer credit card dropped from 2.55% to 2.48%, in the third quarter, and 30-day plus delinquencies increased 16 basis points to 5.24%. In our $100 billion home equity portfolio, charge-offs and delinquencies are rising due to seasoning of recent vintages as well as a decline in home values. Net charge-offs in home equity are up $22 million from the second quarter to $50 million or 20 basis points of average loans. 30-plus day delinquencies are up 24 basis points, to 1.01%. Nonperformers rose from $496 million in Q2 to $764 million, or 0.76% of loans this quarter. Even though our average refreshed FICO score remains strong at 721 and the cumulative loan to value is at 68%, and you can see this on slide 15, we've seen a rise in the percentage of loans that had a CLTV above 90%, which is principally driving -- in the most recent vintages. We believe net charge-offs and home equity will continue to rise given ongoing growth, seasoning in the portfolio, and softening in the real estate values which are the drivers of the reserve builds in these areas. We also believe that our results will continue to benefit from our relationship-based direct to consumer strategy.   

Now, on the residential mortgage portfolio side, continues to perform very well with losses of only 2 basis points. Commercial asset quality overall is strong. Net charge-offs and small business which are reported as commercial loan losses are up $41 million from the second quarter, and the net charge-off rate has risen to 5.89% from 5.23%. Like home equity this too has been a targeted area of growth in the past several years to drop higher revenue, and as mentioned we are taking appropriate reserves for the growth and increased loss levels in these businesses. Excluding small business, commercial net charge-offs increased $8 million from the second quarter, representing a charge-off ratio of 5 basis points, flat with the second quarter. Commercial criticized assets rose from second quarter levels driven by our home builders segment exposure. The home builders also drove the increase in NPAs with some increase in NPAs attributable to mortgage companies.   

Now given the turbulence in the third quarter, we were diligent in moving exposure to both nonperforming and criticized categories. We believe our home builder portfolio reflects both granularity and geographic diversity and further erosion is expected to be manageable. We told you in April that we were expecting an upward trajectory in net interest income from the first quarter and we still believe that will continue through the end of the year. Compared to the second quarter, on a managed basis, core net interest income in the third quarter was up $112 million, or about 1%, while total net interest income, including market-based net interest income, was up 2.5%. The net interest margin on a managed basis was up 3 basis points although the core net interest margin was down 11 basis points. The benefits of good loan growth and one additional day of interest were offset by the negative impact of rates, particularly the move in LIBOR as well as market-based funding of asset growth. As you can see on the bubble charts on slide 17, our interest rate positioning is less liability sensitive compared to the end of June, but remember these estimates of NII change are based off the 9/30 forward curve, so the base is also higher. We added about $100 billion in pay fixed swaps as we felt the forward rate curves were slightly overdone and these positions helped protect us if the forward rate cuts don't materialize and also contribute to the lower liability sensitivity position. We would continue to benefit from curb steepening but more so from a short end [led] steepening versus the long end which is what we experienced over the last few months.   

Let me say a few things about capital on slide 20. Tier one capital at the end of September was 8.22%, down 30 basis points from June due mainly to the acquisition of U.S. Trust which closed on July 1. In the fourth quarter, as Ken mentioned, we will begin to marking to market our 8.2% investment in CCB through OCI, which with a value of roughly $18 billion versus our $3 billion cost basis. While tier one is unaffected, it will have positive impacts on the tangible and total capital ratios of about 50 basis points. Now at the time of the LaSalle announcement in April, which we thought would close at the end of the year, we told you tier one capital ratios on day one of the LaSalle close would be approximately 7.5%. Although our overall funding levels for the acquisition are on target with our projections, we have not raised as much tier one capital as we originally projected. As a result, our estimate for year-end may be slightly lower than the original forecast depending upon the timing of the tier one capital raises. But we remain committed to getting back to our 8% target. The upcoming Marsico gain was imbedded in our capital forecast when we announced the transaction. The positive impact from expense synergies with LaSalle won't really be evident until first quarter of 2008. We will discuss that benefit in January when we talk about our '08 outlook.   

One final comment before closing. The lower effective tax rate reflected the reassessment and catch-up of our annual rate given the lower third quarter earnings. In closing, let reinforce Ken's comments and say that while the earnings in the third quarter were not where we wanted, we did have businesses that performed in line with our expectations, showing the strength of our diversified model. With that, let me open it up for questions and I thank you for your attention.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Our first question comes from Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.   

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning, guys.   

KEN LEWIS: Good morning.   

NANCY BUSH: I guess I would just have to ask sort of an overarching question and Ken, it is probably more aimed at you. I mean you're not that big an investment bank relative to some of your Wall Street competition. You've been building out the bank over the last few years. Has the third quarter experience sort of changed your plans for the build-out? And how do you assess this? How much of this was due to market? And how much of this was due to perhaps not having the trading talent that you need?   

KEN LEWIS: Well, we obviously are in the middle of assessing all of that, Nancy. And what I can't say is that we stay the course and go forward as we have in the past. I mean I think it is incumbent upon me and my responsibility to look at every single business and see where we want to go forward given what happened in the third quarter. And I see it really on three levels, and they're kind of intertwined and one is the point that you made, skillset assessment, judgment assessment, and kind of individual accountability. And secondly, the next plain would be looking at what we think the markets will be like in -- now in 2008, and we don't think they will be as robust for instance as the first half of this year. And so we have to look at the infrastructure as a result of that. And then finally, again to your point, we are going to look at every single business. And from a long-term investor perspective, you can't have businesses where you make money for five years, and then give it all back in one year. And it is kind of analogous to commercial lending in the '80s, where we changed our model from originate and hold to originate and distribute. And so all of that is going on as we speak. And I would say the probability of changes and elimination of some businesses and infrastructure reassessment is the -- the probability is very high.   

NANCY BUSH: I would just ask to Joe, I guess, I mean it seems like a number of the hedges didn't work. And I know that there was -- part of that certainly was due to the unusual moves in many credit products that we had during the third quarter, but I mean was there just a mis-hedge where you were hedging the wrong things with the wrong things? Have you been able to assess this yet?   

JOE PRICE: Nancy, I think I would characterize the vast majority as cash versus synthetic spread decoupling or kind of breakdown of historical pricing relationships. And then in the credit curbs themselves, obviously there were some changes in flattening and other things and it was more of those type things, so it was not a -- it was less about where we were just not hedging the right thing. We clearly felt comfortable coming into this, given some of the more historical norms of those pricing relationships, but they decoupled and that did it. So I guess what your following question would be -- we probably could be accused of being a little more client accommodative on the balance sheet and otherwise and we wouldn't have had as much to hedge.   

KEN LEWIS: Nancy, kind of in my own mind, this is way too simplistic -- but first on the leverage loan side, we did a pretty good job there, and that was about one-third luck, meaning that we weren't in some deals that weren't big in the industries, but was about two-thirds being smart and turning down some deals that got done. On the trading side, I would kind of reverse that and say maybe a third was market and two-thirds was just mistakes we made in judgment. And so clearly, we bear a lot of the blame, much more so than just market conditions.   

NANCY BUSH: If I could just ask the follow-up, I don't know if Liam is in the room or somebody is available to comment on this -- maybe you, Joe. There was a report in the Boston Globe this morning saying you guys were losing deposit share in that market and those numbers are always fluky, we know. Can you comment on that at all? Is it a wrong assumption that you're losing market share in the Boston market?   

JOE PRICE: Nancy, I don't have the specifics about that market. I will tell you overall, you know we had quite strong retail deposit growth this quarter and now that included the addition of U.S. Trust and when you take that out, we were reasonably in line with market growth. So I don't know of any particular thing in that market, and if there is something there I can come back to you.   

NANCY BUSH: Great. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mike Mayo with  Deutsche Bank.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.   

KEN LEWIS: Good morning.   

MIKE MAYO: Ken, just a follow-up on the investment bank. You had a lot of different heads in the investment bank the last few years. Could one potential improvement measure be a joint venture or acquisition to gain some additional experience?   

KEN LEWIS: I don't think so, Mike. I mean I always say I never say never, but I've had all of the fun I can stand in investment banking at the moment. So to get bigger in it is not really something I want to do. But we do have to, again, as I said we got to go back and assess all of these businesses, and see where our strengths are and where they're not, and act accordingly.   

MIKE MAYO: And as it relates to asset quality, generally, you mentioned not only home equity, home builders, but also small business. So I guess the question is, what percent of your loan portfolio are you worried about? You said there is some additional softness that you weren't exactly anticipating.   

KEN LEWIS: Mike, I think -- obviously, our biggest look into the kind of the consumer, U.S. consumer at large is in our card book, and you saw the results there were right in line with our expectations. The places that we built reserves were principally in three areas. One was in small business -- we've grown that portfolio. It is about a $16 billion portfolio when you aggregate all of the pieces. And so you've got quite a bit of seasoning in there, and as well as some deterioration on the edges, but as much growth as anything. On the home equity side, and this would be home equity versus our core first mortgage portfolio, we saw some deterioration there, and we would expect to see some additional elevation of charge-off levels. That's about $100 billion portfolio, and our stress tends to be in the things that are above 90%, say, cumulative loan to value. So it is more of the home price. We had some previous growth that we've talked to you about before, but this more recent stuff is more about home prices, and the pressure on that piece, and I would peg that as something in the mid teens of the total portfolio. Each though it has strong FICOs, when you get to that high LTV, that's where we're feeling that stress. On the commercial side, we mentioned the home builders. We've clearly -- our philosophy is to get aggressive when there is weakness out there and move these things into criticized assets so we get a special focus on them. I mean that is really what drives your reserving -- how you risk rate those loans. And that is really what you saw us doing in this period.   

JOE PRICE: But Mike, for all of the people who have been out there a long time, as you have, these numbers are still really good. I mean in most cases, they're bumping up against the bottom end of our standards in terms of charge-offs and nonperformers. So this is a good portfolio.   

MIKE MAYO: I guess to what degree are you watching things with a heightened degree of caution? Like the rolling recession in the early '90s, it had been just subprime mortgage and then it is Alt-A mortgage, and now we have home equity and then we get home builders. How much are you concerned that this is spreading a little bit more than you originally thought?   

KEN LEWIS: Not really. We're not surprised by anything. Obviously, we're looking very closely at this small business portfolio, and as Joe said, home builders are an obvious, because of what is happening. But home equity, it is going to 20 basis points. I mean that is pristine -- 2 basis points in the mortgage portfolio. 5 basis points on your commercial portfolio. These are really good quality numbers, and to say that we're concerned about overall credit quality would be going way too far. But as I said, we obviously are looking at -- you can't be predicting 2% growth, and seeing some deterioration without looking very carefully, but it is not out of some panic. It is just in normal deliberation improvement.   

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Ed Najarian with  Merrill Lynch.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, guys. This question may be a little bit premature but of course it comes back to GCIB. $100 million this quarter, obviously much lower than anticipated, compared to levels in the prior quarters which were much higher. I think obviously all of our expectation is that future quarters will be somewhere in the middle of this very low quarter, but lower than the kind of quarters you were putting up prior to the third quarter. How do you guys think about the pace and extent of the rebound in the profitability of GCIB over the next several quarters? And I'm sure that is very difficult question to answer, but should we expect it to get back near say '06 kind of run rate levels relatively soon, or are we going to go only say halfway back? Is there any kind of way to scope out the pace of rebound in GCIB profitability?   

KEN LEWIS: Ed, obviously, you have to start with where you think revenues are going to -- what revenues will do. And we're in the throes of wrestling with that issue because it is obviously a key issue to put our profit plan to bed for 2008. And at the moment, the debate is whether it is a 2005 level of revenue, or 2006 level of revenue, and I suspect we will probably come in thinking that it is somewhere in between the two and go with that. And it is impossible to answer obviously until it happens but that is probably what our profit plan will look like for 2008.   

JOE PRICE: And obviously, Ed, that drives -- that starting point drives how you have to right-size your infrastructure.   

ED NAJARIAN: If we say that revenues will be somewhere -- '08 revenues will be somewhere in the '05 to '06 level, how quickly can you reduce your expense infrastructure related to that?   

KEN LEWIS: Well, it varies, but you would start immediately, and have as much as you could get before the first quarter is thrown in, but then there are other things that would probably take you six to nine months to kind of unwind. But you can get a lot of them pretty quickly.   

ED NAJARIAN: And you expect to be pretty aggressive in that regard?   

KEN LEWIS: Very.   

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) And the next question comes from Matthew O'Connor with  UBS.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST,  UBS: Good morning.   

KEN LEWIS: Good morning.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Can you just give a little more color on the rationale, the continued growing the home equity and auto portfolio so much, and I think the growth rates are more in the 20 to 30% range, and it just seems like we're seeing increasing deterioration there at this point in the cycle.   

JOE PRICE: If you take home equity, I mean first of all, remember this is direct to consumer business out of our stores. It is a product that if you think about the suite of products to our customers, for instance in this portfolio, probably over half of this portfolio -- either those are first mortgages or they are where we hold the first mortgage. So it is our customer base that we're dealing with. So while each week the underwriting standards around the edge is based on the economic environment and what we see going on in the economic environment, the product is a core part of the product suite that we would continue to grow in that amount of stores.   

KEN LEWIS: And Matt again, we're talking about increasing rates of charge-off, but look at the absolute amounts, and look at the ratio, I mean they are still pristine, and so this is a good quality paper, which we will continue to want to expand in.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: And I think the concern though is that if home prices continue to decline from here, a lot of home equity in the industry overall is based on FICOs, which isn't proving to be that great of an indicator, and the LTVs will start creeping up as prices decline. So it just does -- a lot of other banks hold back, and I think you guys have been underpenetrated for a while so it makes sense that there is some catch-up.   

KEN LEWIS: Well -- you do have the phenomenon of people walking away, because of house decline, but that is not the general nature of most people, and so I think it is a function of what you think employment is going to do, much more so than you what you think housing prices are going to do. And as long as we get some reasonable job growth, I think we're okay.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. And just in general, are you guys thinking generally about using FICO scores as you evaluate, I guess all of your consumer lending, especially related to real estate?   

JOE PRICE: I don't know if you remember, Matt, we talked about before -- when we merged with MBNA, we picked up quite a bit of expertise on the judgmental underwriting side. And so we actually have a blend where with certain attributes we'll kick out of automated scoring into judgmental scoring and [Bruce's team] and our risk teams have a pretty robust process. So that is in place and it is something that we had as part of the arsenal and clearly use.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just lastly, most of the reserve build this quarter seems to be supporting the strong loan growth that you had. As we look into 4Q and into '08, would you expect continued provision in excess of charge-offs?   

JOE PRICE: I think as we continue to grow the business, we obviously have to deal with that, and I guess the way I phrase it is probably -- there will probably be still be some moderate reserve build, but where we sit today, nothing that is out of balance.   

KEN LEWIS: Remember, Matt, you would hope so, if you were -- if it is for growth.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. All right. Thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Ron Mandle with GIC.   

RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, folks. I was wondering if you could give some more color on the increase in the criticized loans up 50% on a link quarter basis -- if it is all residential construction, and whatever elaboration you could give on that.   

JOE PRICE: Ron, the increase in criticized -- the principal driver, as I mentioned before, was home builders, and where we specifically reviewed the home builder portfolio across the nation, and trying to be pretty aggressive on identifying where we felt there could be weakness so that we could get the extra focus that happens when you put something in the criticized. So that was the primary driver. Other things that would have had some impact would be mortgage companies, obviously, but the overwhelming driver was on the home builder side.   

RON MANDLE: And how big is your home builder portfolio?   

JOE PRICE: In the supplement, you can see our commercial real estate exposure, and it is a subset obviously of that commercial real estate exposure, and it is around, overall $17 billion in exposure and about $10 billion in funded.   

RON MANDLE: I'm sorry --   

JOE PRICE: That includes public and private home builders.   

RON MANDLE: And how much of the funded part is now criticized?   

JOE PRICE: The funded criticized is approaching a third.   

RON MANDLE: Okay. So that was virtually all -- or as you say the vast majority of the increase?   

JOE PRICE: You got it.   

RON MANDLE: And are you comfortable with the other two-thirds that you don't think you will have future problems there, in the next couple of quarters?   

JOE PRICE: Well, let me back up and say we're comfortable with the whole portfolio. We think that it is very manageable. We think we were aggressive in identifying what we wanted the extra focus on and moving it in there, as we did this review.   

RON MANDLE: Okay. And just -- and in the rest of the more traditional commercial, the implication is that the credit quality hasn't changed in a measurable way.   

JOE PRICE: Correct.   

RON MANDLE: Okay. Thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.   

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Back to GCIB for a moment, if you take the $3 billion in revenue loss between last quarter and this quarter, you've gone around the edges of explaining this but I was hoping maybe you could do it slightly more clearly. How much of that do you think is in marks versus trading losses, versus just revenue short falls from the weak market?   

KEN LEWIS: We haven't been going around this. We've just -- we addressed every one of those issues in the comments. You must not have been online.   

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: I was on the line. I will go back to the transcript and get it out.   

KEN LEWIS: Okay.   

OPERATOR: And the next question comes from Mike Mayo with  Deutsche Bank.

MIKE MAYO: Hi. A couple of follow-ups. The level writedowns on the leveraged loans, I guess $247 million of losses, and I took the midpoint of the average leveraged loans and I get 3.4%. Is that kind of ballpark correct?   

JOE PRICE: Mike, as you probably are aware, it is difficult to do an average simply because of some things, let's say if there is a subordinated position, it could have had a heavier discount than if it was a first lien senior bank debt that had complete covenants, et cetera. So I'm a little cautious on trying to let you use an average from that standpoint. What I would say is go back to kind of the comments we had said earlier, that the vast majority of our exposure is in senior bank debt and we're not overly concentrated in B notes or subordinated, et cetera, from that standpoint, and think about it that way. But we do have some of that, and therefore, it would throw you off trying to do it on an average.   

MIKE MAYO: That means the percentage would be a little bit higher?   

JOE PRICE: On some. And lower on others. I mean we've got some that we feel clear within fees.   

MIKE MAYO: As far as interest rate positioning, I thought you might benefit some based on what was in the queue, and kind of what is in the ins and outs of that analysis and where do you stand now?   

JOE PRICE: You mean intra-quarter.   

MIKE MAYO: How much do you continue to benefit or get hurt if the Fed continues to lower interest rates?   

JOE PRICE: As I mentioned in the comments, we were liability sensitive. We continue to be liability sensitive. We're a little less liability sensitive. All of that is based off the forward curve, so if you went back to the end of last quarter and looked at it, it was the then forward curve. And obviously, rates have moved some in there, and we didn't benefit quite as much from that as I would have expected intraquarter --in the quarter, because of this short end LIBOR Fed fund spread. But you know, over any extended period of time, I think that would do what you would expect it to.   

MIKE MAYO: And when you talk about the short end LIBOR Fed funds spread, you are referring to LIBOR staying up?   

JOE PRICE: Yes.   

MIKE MAYO: And why do you think that's the case?   

JOE PRICE: I think it is the at large kind of market disruption that [rode that], but that would be the principal reason. If you look at the futures, I think you would see that converging and quite frankly, it has since quarter end some.   

MIKE MAYO: And then one more just kind of big picture question. I thought -- to use a double negative, you might get a little bit of disintermediation. That is, you would be more of an intermediary as the capital markets had problems. Are you seeing more of your customers go back to using bank debt as opposed to capital markets?   

JOE PRICE: Some, but not as much as you might have expected during that period. I mean I kind of gave you our elevated balance sheet levels and those in kind of the core credit underwriting, when you think about revolvers for corporate clients, and whether they were utilizing revolvers more, we've got some instances of that. But not overwhelming, so not quite as much as you might have intuitively thought during that period.   

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) We will take our next question from Betsy Graseck with  Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. Good morning.   

KEN LEWIS: Good morning.   

BETSY GRASECK: I'm sorry, I had to jump on and off the call. But I'm just wondering if you could comment a little bit on the super (inaudible) structure that is being discussed in the marketplace and how you're thinking about the potential to participate and what the positives would be from a participation?   

KEN LEWIS: Joe, do you want to --   

JOE PRICE: Yes, Betsy, when you step back from this for a minute, while I mentioned earlier in the call that the capital markets are -- some portions of that are freeing up or coming back, we still view the markets as pretty fragile. This is one area in the market that -- where liquidity is scarce, and as a result, we think that if in fact it created a disruption, it could have impacts -- broader impacts on markets as well as economically. And therefore, we look at this as a way to participate, or our desire to participate is really associated with that kind of aspect or coming from that standpoint. And we will do it at market rates, and this is no give-away. We will make money at it. Still market based.   

BETSY GRASECK: And how do you think about the capital allocation to debt structure? I mean how do you think through what size is appropriate for you?   

JOE PRICE: You mean size of any potential --   

BETSY GRASECK: Investment, yes, correct.   

JOE PRICE: You look at it in the context of how you underwrite any other piece of credit. In other words, you look at the structure. You look at the asset class. You look at the what is behind it, et cetera. And you kind of go through that process. So there is no real unique aspect to the way you look at it.   

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And I assume you're pretty deep in the discussions on it. What is your sense as to the probability that it goes through?   

JOE PRICE: I would hate to predict something. I think the most important part is the fact that it exists if it needs to exist, it will be there. And that is really -- so go back to the main -- the reason I said, the real reason for having pursued this or us participating in this I think that is probably the most critical part. And how much it gets utilized and what level is probably less relevant to me than the fact that it is available.   

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then just on other areas within the capital markets, is there anything else that you are thinking about potentially scaling back on to make room for this? Are there other parts of the market where you're anticipating a little less activity that you might be able to scale back on?   

JOE PRICE: Nancy, there are really going to be two separate issues. We wouldn't have to do anything to do this. But there will be some scaling back. But that is because of the hard look at the business. It is nothing to do with this.   

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.   

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill.   

JEFF HARTE, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILLE & PARTNERS: Good morning. A couple of questions. One, circling back seems to be the theme to the investment bank. Can you talk a little bit about kind of the level of client conversations, and not so much pipelines, but just interested as to whether you're finding kind of clients still interested in making strategic acquisition, kind of demand for capital, going into the capital markets, kind of the risk appetite of CEOs and such?   

JOE PRICE: I think throughout this period, you still have had active dialogues with your strategic -- or with your corporate clients about strategic matters, and potential transactions, and things, and as you saw, on the -- just on the underwriting side, in the market, the high grade market functioned pretty orderly during this. So I think in general, where we've seen the most slowdowns -- obviously it has been in the financial sponsors market, and in the leveraged -- associated leverage finance market and in the structured credit, mainly in the collaterals debt obligation type of markets. And that's what you would expect. So the general client activity, dialogue, discussions, and ongoing flow of business has remained there and remained -- those dialogues have remained pretty healthy.   

KEN LEWIS: Jeff, I would say that this period has affected the psyche of the financial services industry a lot more than it has outside the financial services industry.   

JEFF HARTE: Okay. And as we think about the potential for any buybacks going forward, they obviously declined a bit, we know capital levels are going to be strained. Will you be able to buy back stock in the near term or do you have an idea when you will be able to step that up again?   

JOE PRICE: Consistent with what we told you before, our intent is to rebuild capital levels associated with the diminution that comes from the file transaction. That is our first goal. And so it would be post that. Timing would still be in the latter part of '08.   

JEFF HARTE: Latter part of '08 for net repurchases? I guess what I'm getting at -- do you think you will be able to buy back stock kind of compensation dilution or kind of a cessation?   

JOE PRICE: We are going through -- we are trying to -- this quarter for instance, we are pretty much flat. We bought back to offset issuance under employee benefit plans. I was talking about net buyback.   

KEN LEWIS: And that will happen sometime in 2008. But it will be net.   

JEFF HARTE: Okay. And just quickly on the U.S. consumer, kind of what we're seeing in credit, I mean it seems the theme is housing continues to be tough, and there are markdowns across kind of those portfolios. But if you move beyond housing things seem to be holding up all right on a credit quality basis. I would be interested in if you're seeing that because you cover the country so well -- the differentiation between housing and the rest of the market credit.   

KEN LEWIS: You summed it up well.   

JEFF HARTE: Okay. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Meredith Whitney with CIBC World Markets.   

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Good morning. I have a rudimentary question. I appreciate your comments on directionally revenues from GCIB, and the cause for action within that unit, but can you speak in broad strokes in terms of what you would like and what you see the GCIB looking like over the next year or so? Just in terms of products, expertise, skill set, niche. Just so I have a more of a fundamental view of what to expect.   

JOE PRICE: I can't do it at the moment. But that's what we are in the process of going through, Meredith. And I expect to have that to be more clear in the next week or so.   

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. And then when would it be articulated to us?   

JOE PRICE: I don't know yet. It might be sometime this quarter or at the latest when we do the earnings for the fourth quarter.   

MEREDITH WHITNEY: Okay. All right. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: And Mr. Price, it appears that we have no further questions.   

JOE PRICE: Thank you very much. Have a good day.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | e1101 : Economic Growth | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020071025e3ai0018k
  


 HD
 Q2  2007   Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
6,749 words
   PD
19 July 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome to today's teleconference. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Please note this call maybe recorded. I'd like to turn the program over to Mr. Kevin Stitt. Mr. Stitt, please begin.   

KEVIN STITT, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results. And that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the Financial Services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, you can see our press release and SEC documents, and with that let me turn it over to Ken Lewis.   

   TD
KEN LEWIS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Kevin, good morning and thanks for joining us. As we've done in the past few quarters, I'm going to start by highlighting certain comparisons, linked quarter and year to year and then I'm going to turn it over to Joe for some additional detail and color on the various topics.   

Reported earnings of $5.8 billion in the second quarter were $1.28 per diluted share and that includes $0.01 of merger charges which was up 8% from record results a year ago and up 10% from the first quarter. I'm not going to to spend too much time on linked quarter comparison other than to say that the revenue pick up from the first quarter was quite impressive and although partly seasonal demonstrated strong customer activity across all of our businesses. Versus a year ago which was then a record earnings quarter for  Bank of America revenue trends indicated good growth in all of three business segments driven by targeted growth in several of our businesses along with the benefit from various investments we've made over the past few years. On a managed basis as you can see on slide 6, 1% growth in net interest income from a year ago along with 21% growth in non-interest income more than offset a $1.3 billion increase in credit costs and a 4% increase in expense levels.   

As we've discussed several times prior to today, along with revenue growth, we continue to see credit cost increase due to normalization, seasoning and specific portfolios, and higher loss expectations in businesses we have targeted for growth. Even in the face of muted net interest income growth, higher credit costs and ongoing reinvestment, in all of our businesses we continue to generate attractive earnings growth. Now, this quarter's results include a positive impact of approximately $0.09 from the sale of certain private equity fund investments along with negative impacts of $0.02 from increased litigation reserves and $0.05 from building the allowance for loan lease losses.   

If you look at slide 5, several positive trends are discernible related to our three business segments versus results a year ago. Managed total revenue for our three businesses and remember this excludes principal investing in almost all of the equity investment gains, that's up $1.2 billion or more than 7% from year ago in line with our revenue growth goals of 6 to 9%. Managed fee revenue from these three businesses is up 10% from a year ago. Average managed loans across our three business segments excluding mortgage loans in our ALM portfolio grew a combined 11% for approximately $66 billion. Average retail deposit growth is regaining some momentum although still not where we want it to be with growth approximately 2% since last year; however that does include the impact of the run-off of higher price deposits at MB&A. I would say that the momentum in retail deposit growth will be more evident in the second half.   

Currently the benefits of these achievements is muted by the interest rate environment but should be more apparent if the curve continues to steepen or just avoids a return to inversion going forward. Other events during the quarter or later this year include the announced sale of Washington Capital, the close on July 1, of U.S. Trust and progress out of the Netherlands indicating we're closer to acquiring LaSalle Bank. We expect to close the sale of Washington Capital in the fourth quarter and anticipate a gain on that transaction to be around $1.4 billion pre-tax.   

The U.S. Trust acquisition closed on July 1, and our people are extremely busy with the integration as well as excited about the opportunities the combined private banks have ahead of them. The actual financial impact of the acquisition on third quarter results will be immaterial given the size to the overall corporation. As most of you have seen, the Dutch Supreme Court last Friday cleared the way for our acquisition of LaSalle from ABN Amro. Our application with the Fed was filed in early June so we're waiting their approval. When approved we would expect to close shortly thereafter, which looks like it will be early in the fourth quarter. We'll be more definitive about the impact on earnings in 2007 when we discuss third quarter earnings in October.   

Now before I turn it over to Joe let me summarize by saying that results in the second quarter from a revenue perspective were a bit better than our expectations. In April, in our prior earnings discussion, we were comfortable with the direction of the economy which you may recall we indicated the GDP growth in the first half of 2007 could be below 2% but would pick up in the second half. Currently we're looking for GDP growth around 3% in the second half of the year after what appears to be a 2% plus export driven second quarter. We stayed at healthy growth but remain a little concerned about domestic consumption spending given the prolonged housing slump, subprime issues, and higher fuel prices; however given our business momentum in the first six months of the year, we think we're well positioned going into the second half of 2007 with additional upside in 2008, especially when you consider some of our acquisitions coming on board.   

One other thing since I know we'll be getting a question on it, our Board of Directors has a schedule meeting next week, which is when the Board considers potential changes to the dividend. Since I have a substantial investment in  Bank of America, like many of you out there, I look forward to discussing my thoughts with them. With that, I'll turn it over to Joe.   

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken. Let me spend a few minutes delving into some of the business metrics before I talk about principal investing, credit quality, and a few other topics. In Global Consumer and Small Business Banking and I'm referencing slide 10 here, new customer generation continues with net new retail checking account openings of 717,000, up a bit from openings a year ago and still continuing the strong momentum we experienced over the past two years. New account growth within card services was $3.5 million for the quarter up 6% from a year ago and reflected strong sales efforts in E-commerce, unsecured lending, international, including Canada, and business card as well as our direct mail efforts. In consumer cards, our loan cost delivery strategy is driving increased sales coupled with E-commerce.   

Interchange fees from debit and credit cards are up 14% and [16%] respectively from a year ago. Sales of small business products across the Company including both loan and deposit products continue to set new heights and were up 41% from a year ago. First mortgage originations across the Company were 29.2 billion, an increase of 25% from last year. Based on our most recent data the percentage of deposit customers who have originated a mortgage with  Bank of America has increased from 7.7% in Q1, '06 to 10.3% in Q1 '07, a 34% increase. And since the national launch in late April of our no fee mortgage plus product, banking center application volume is up 36% versus the same period last year. Average home equity loans are up 24% from last year, and were up 5% from the first quarter.   

Within GCIB, and you can refer here to slide 11, Capital Markets and Advisory Services had a record quarter. Investment Banking income was up 27% from a year ago while total sales and trading revenue was up 20%. The team did a good job trading through the tougher markets during the quarter and as you know the environment can be volatile. These results along with a 39% increase in sales growth from secondary trading reflect a continued traction of experiencing from our investment in the fixed income platform over the last couple of years. Within Global Wealth and Investment Management, investment brokerage services income was up 14% from last year. Columbia Management, benefiting from good investment performance, positive client inflows and market lift had an 18% increase in Asset Management fees. In premier banking and investments, investment and brokerage services jumped 24% reflecting a 38% increase in fee based brokerage assets and a 20% improvement in productivity of the salesforce. We continue to invest in this business and have added more than 300 client managers or a 14% increase from a year ago. Total assets under management at (inaudible) increased 13% from a year ago or 66 billion with more than half of the increase due to equity and money-market inflows.   

Outside of our three business segments, equity investment gains and other and here you can see this on slide 13 were $1.7 billion which is an indication of the continued strong liquidity in the market during the quarter. Included in these results was a gain of approximately $600 million associated with the sale of private equity funds with a market value of about $1.9 billion, to Conversis Capital. Conversis Capital is a permanent capital vehicle designed to offer its investors both institutional and retail, long term capital appreciation through a seasoned portfolio of private equity investments. The vehicle raised funds through an issuance on the year next exchange as well as through sales to certain strategic investors and the transaction closed on July 6. Management of Conversis Capital portfolio is through a contract with Conversis asset management an Investment Manager principally owned by  Bank of America and Oak Hill Investment Management. After the sale of the principal investing portfolio is approximately $4 billion in funded investments of which approximately two-thirds are direct investments and the remaining third is investments in funds.   

Now given our actions this quarter we're looking for more normalized equity investment gains in the second half of 2007. Given the recent market choppiness and the selected pull back of liquidity it's a little hard to gauge however we estimate a base of about 300 to $500 million a quarter with market conditions somewhat dictating anything above that.   

Let me switch to credit quality on slide 15. Trends this quarter are in line with our expectations expressed earlier this year at our Investor Day as well as during our review of first quarter earnings. Overall, consumer and commercial credit quality remains sound. Managed net credit losses across all our businesses were 1.3%, up 4 basis points from the first quarter. Net charge-offs remain flat with the previous quarter at 81 basis points. Overall, 90 day past due on a managed basis dropped from 68 to 62 basis points while 30 days past due dropped by a like amount or 5 basis points.   

Second quarter provision at 1.8 billion exceeded net charge-offs resulting in a reserve build of 315 million. This reserve build was driven by seasoning and higher loss expectations in several portfolios we've targeted for growth including small business, home equity, and consumer unsecured lending. Now as expected managed consumer credit card net losses as a percentage of the portfolio came in at 5.02% which we believe is the peak for the year. As you know, the increase in losses over the past few quarters in consumer card was a result of ongoing normalization and the seasoning of some legacy  Bank of America origination vintages. We believe the seasoning has more or less run its course and the net loss ratio will drop back in the third quarter before continued normalization trends at higher. 90 day delinquencies in consumer credit card dropped from a peak of 2.79% in the first quarter to 2.55% in the second quarter.   

Charge-off in delinquencies in both home equity and small business continued to increase given these two businesses have been a focus of our growth over the last several quarters. In dollar terms, net charge-offs in small business were up 37 million from the first quarter while home equity net charge-offs were up 11 million. We would expect net charge-offs in both businesses will continue to rise given ongoing growth and seasoning in the portfolios.   

Turning to commercial, commercial asset quality overall was strong, even with the inclusion of the small business portfolio. Excluding the commercial small business, the net charge off ratio is 5 basis points. Commercial criticized assets and non-performers rose negligibly, as we're not really seeing deterioration outside the well publicized home builder segment and we think our home builders portfolio reflects both granularity and geographic diversity so further erosion is expected to be modest and manageable. Assuming no change to our economic outlook, we wouldn't expect significant excess provision over charge-offs for the rest of the year outside providing for business growth. This should get you provision expense in excess of 6 billion for the year trending towards 6.5 consistent with what we told you earlier this year.   

Now, we told you in April that we were expecting an upward trajectory in net interest income from the first quarter and we still believe that will happen. On a managed basis and here I'm referring to slide 17, core net interest income in the second quarter was up 126 million or 1.3% while total net interest income including market based margin was up 2.6%. The net interest margin on a managed basis stabilized and was down 1 basis point while core net interest margin was down 3 basis points. As you can see on the bubble chart on slide 18, our interest rate positioning hasn't changed that much from the end of March and remains liability sensitive to parallel shifts.   

We will benefit from curve steepening but more so from short end led steepening versus long end which is what we've experienced over the last couple of months. Now, our slightly reduced exposure to higher rates is driven by a fact that our cap protection to higher rates is closer to the money given changes in the forward curve since last quarter. The main drivers of the trajectory that I referenced going forward are not so much rate dependent but relate to core momentum in our businesses and balance sheet which we feel pretty good about.   

Ken mentioned our outlook earlier which absent some event driven reason translates to not expecting the Fed to move interest rates in the foreseeable future. Now let me say a few things about capital which you can see on slide 21. Tier one capital at the end of June was 8.52%. Remember that the acquisition of U.S. Trust which closed on July 1, will reduce that level by about 30 basis points. In the fourth quarter, we'll begin marking to market our 8.5% investment in  China Construction Bank through other comprehensive income which at today's value should have a positive impact on both tangible and total capital ratios. During the second quarter we repurchased 2 million shares on a net basis, so consistent with what we told you when we announced the LaSalle transaction, we've cut back our share repurchase program to be essentially share neutral.   

Also as we told you in April, capital ratios on day one of the LaSalle close or around year-end would be approximately 7.5% for tier one and 3.8% for tangible equity. As with the CCB appreciation I'll note that we had anticipated the (inaudible) gain that Ken mentioned and the funding and capital gain plan for the LaSalle transaction. At this time, we don't expect any material changes from those projections, other than timing differences of capital issuances. A positive impact from expense synergies with LaSalle won't really be evident until the first quarter of '08 at the earliest.   

As many of you have noticed, you probably noticed, the expense levels came in at a higher level than you may have anticipated with a negative impact on our operating leverage. During the second quarter we increased our litigation reserve by about 150 million which includes a number of matters, incentive compensation was up 100 million from the first quarter levels, correlated to the strong quarter in Capital Markets and professional fees were up 54 million from the first quarter. Also during the quarter we increased spending related to several corporate initiatives. We think we can continue to produce the best efficiency ratio in the industry given our business mix so I can assure you we haven't taken our eyes off of that measure.   

In closing, let me reinforce Ken's comments and say that momentum is evident in a lot of our customer metrics which will drive revenue growth for the rest of the year and position us well as anyone going into 2008 and with that, let me open it up for questions and I thank you for your attention.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) We'll take our first question from the site of Mike Mayo with  Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.   

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.   

KEN LEWIS: Hi, Mike.   

MIKE MAYO: Could you maybe compare and contrast contingent liabilities on the wholesale side today and versus the start of the decade and what I'm really getting at would be leveraged lending or home bridge loans or the potential for home bridge loans.   

JOE PRICE: Maybe I'll pass the beginning of the decade to Ken, but I'll take the current environment. Mike, let me, I guess what I'd do as a back drop real quick is unlike say the ADS market or the, which has obviously got the subprime actual credit deterioration in it, we really haven't seen real deterioration in the underline borrowers, i.e. the customers cash flows balance sheets are still strong. Now, having said that there's a very large high yield in leverage loan for the calendar and when you get that level of supply, you clearly get investor pushback which we're seeing, seems to be centered in the term loan B market, principally a covenant light is where I think most people would focus, and in this area, I guess where I'd characterize us is our risk management and business practices are serving us very well. We've developed a pretty healthy bridge syndication business and the way I'd characterize our current position is we really are not sitting on any unexpected funding.   

Now, having said that we aren't immune to risk but remember on the relative basis to our total company, compared to maybe some others, this is just not as big although we do have a big business here. I'd also say we just happen not to be in many of the higher profile, larger deals in the forward calendar which also would give you some perspective on our exposure there. So that's probably the way I'd characterize our current position compared to what's out in the industry in the forward calendar and maybe others in the industry.   

MIKE MAYO: And just to follow-up, can you size this a little bit? How large is this high yield and leverage loan calendar? What's your participation in that? And what's your capacity to potentially take more loans on your balance sheet that you're not planning to?   

KEN LEWIS: Well, first, I don't have the exact current level of forward calendar, but let's count it in a couple hundred billion when you add high yield and leveraged lending together. Obviously probably a little heavier would be on the loan side, probably than the bond side. From the perspective of our ability to absorb it, we obviously underwrite every credit with the understanding that we could in fact have to hold that credit and so it becomes an individual client selection process that we're comfortable with our practices around. We also have a very elaborate process of watching our liquidity, don't forget our liquidity basis is stronger than anybody around in the industry, so our ability to fund anything we underwrite is there. We're comfortable with that, and while I don't have specifics for you on the size of our particular commitments, and I guess you can see if you go to our supplement package, you could see our aggregate commitments in the level of those for all lending product, I would say we're very comfortable from a funding perspective in our ability to absorb anything and quite frankly, we keep our radar antenna up in these kind of times for opportunities also.   

MIKE MAYO: And so slide 15 of your presentation does not mention provision higher due to leverage loan, so I guess that's the case?   

KEN LEWIS: That is correct.   

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.   

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from the site of Nancy Bush with NAB Research, your line is open.   

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning guys.   

JOE PRICE: Good morning.   

NANCY BUSH: A couple of questions, is there a methodology behind these additions to the litigation reserve or do you -- does this just happen as it comes up or how does this get added to, is there discretion behind it or if you could just describe the process, I'd appreciate it.   

JOE PRICE: Nancy, we go through a pretty elaborate process of evaluating under what's considered FAS 5 contingencies which means something has to be estimated and probable quarterly and look at all individual cases, our legal team working with our finance team and the business lines and that process this quarter yielded the incremental exposure that we reserve for so while there's obviously judgment in that because it's an estimate of kind of a probability view, there's also the FAS 5 rule that you have to follow.   

NANCY BUSH: Okay, so this will just be a sort of lumpy number that comes along periodically? I mean, do you sit down and aim for particular quarters when you do this or they just arise when they arise?   

JOE PRICE: Pretty much arise based on the underlying suits, and in some cases, discretionary action we can take if we elected to settle something.   

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thanks. Could you just give us a little bit of color as well on the deterioration in the home equity portfolio? Are there particular markets that you're looking at right now? If you could just add a little color to what we've heard industry wide thus far?   

JOE PRICE: Yes. Let me give you kind of a perspective first on our home equity business. Remember this is about $100 billion portfolio, slightly under that and our charge-off ratio went from 8 basis points to 12 basis points, think of that as translating to $11 million on a Company our size. We think through the cycle, and Bruce mentioned this, you may remember back at Investor Day, we think through the cycle that kind of the range of on average that we would see in loss rates here could be 10 to 25, so even if we trended, pick a number like to 20 from here, from 12, you're only talking about relatively small number in the grand scheme of things for us. When you think about where we're seeing some of this, it's generally given our growth, it's seasoning across our franchise. I would say though that the '06 vintages seem to be a little bit weaker but principally just in the high LTV or high CLTV , so that, if I'm looking around the industry that would tend to be probably the area that I would   

NANCY BUSH: And these are primarily generated how?   

JOE PRICE: The beauty of this franchise, as you know, is the banking centered to the store so this is really direct origination. We have very little of any other origination in here.   

NANCY BUSH: Not much broker, not much correspondent which seem to have been sort of the mega boosts in some other places?   

JOE PRICE: You're absolutely correct.   

KEN LEWIS: And Nancy this is Ken.   

NANCY BUSH: Yes.   

KEN LEWIS: Broker tends to be toxic waste.   

NANCY BUSH: Well I always thought so. Great. Thanks very much.   

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from the site of [Ron Mandle] with GIC. Your line is open.   

RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Thanks. And thanks first of all for the managed numbers. I appreciate that very much. A question in regard to bridge financings and leverage finance.  JPMorgan yesterday strongly implied that they took some writedowns on loans available for sale of bridge loans through their trading accounts in their second quarter and I was wondering if you had any similar writedowns through your trading account from loans available for sale?   

JOE PRICE: Ron, as I've mentioned before, we are really not sitting on any unexpected fundings, is the way I respond to that, so there's nothing of any note related to that in our quarter numbers.   

RON MANDLE: So, that's basically a no?   

JOE PRICE: Yes.   

RON MANDLE: Good. And then in regard to credit card, you indicated that you thought the loss ratio would be down in the third quarter and then might be trending up again from there. I was wondering if you could elaborate on that maybe with what you had in mind numerically in that regard?   

JOE PRICE: Well, I don't want to get into specific projections on these things but you may recollect back again to Investor Day when Bruce gave a pretty detailed description of the seasoning that was occurring in some legacy  Bank of America portfolios and that's kind of what has run its course. Now, we also talked about I guess what is return to normalcy and bankruptcy losses and how that is going to -- has taken longer than anybody expected or has been stretched out and that continued trend will occur and probably take us in as we had told you before into that 5 to 5.5% annual rate, maybe in '08ish kind of maybe even a little bit after that, but really in that '08 kind of range so that's a benchmark to think about it.   

RON MANDLE: And that would be the average for the year in that range or the year-end or what, 5 to 5.5 would be what?   

JOE PRICE: Full year.   

RON MANDLE: Full year average?   

JOE PRICE: Yes.   

RON MANDLE: Okay, good. Thanks very much.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) We'll go to the next question from Matthew O'Connor with  UBS. Your line is open.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST,  UBS: Good morning.   

JOE PRICE: Good morning, Matt.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Joe, in April you had said that net interest income would rise a little bit this quarter and growth would accelerate in the back half of the year. I was just wondering if that's still the case and what's driving that pick up in growth?   

JOE PRICE: The answer is yes, Matt, as we referred to in those prepared comments. We felt like we would see trajectory throughout the year and into '08 and still feel that way. My point earlier was it's not rate dependent. It's more so business, core business momentum driven, and that still would be the case.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, and some of the off balance sheet positions I think have been a drag on net interest income. Is that going to start going away?   

JOE PRICE: I guess the way I would characterize that right now and we'll try to put things as clear as we can in the supplement or we have and in the Q for you, but the way I think about that is it had been an increasing drag beforehand and I feel like that increasing nature of that drag will dissipate and then we still got to ride it a little bit from that standpoint.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately if we step back and look at the macro environment, there's obviously various pockets of credit risks increasing out there. You guys have been active buyers of credit protection either for single names or just macro consumer hedges. Have you been adding to any of those areas recently?   

JOE PRICE: No. Our CDS on the accrual loan book is actually down, but you may recall last quarter we described to you how we moved what we viewed as our largest excess credit positions on to the trading platform under the fair value option accounting election that we made and in back side of the business, they are pretty well dynamically managed as is any other core trading desk with multiple instruments, not necessarily just CDS, and we really now run that on the trading desk and you'd see that coming through our trading results.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, and then how about on the consumer side. Anything there?   

JOE PRICE: Again, I'd remind you that on the home, the First Mortgage product we have what we call ready transaction or ready protection which is in essence insurance that we take the first small amount of loss but then we sell off the next tier and then we take the upper end, and we continue that program to protect our wonderful family mortgage portfolio.   

KEN LEWIS: And let me reiterate what Joe said before, our loss rate on our home equity portfolio is 12 basis points.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: All right and then actually just a somewhat related question for Ken. You've had a couple of changes to senior management both in the Investment Bank and then also the Treasury area. Any change to your approach to managing risk in either of those areas?   

JOE PRICE: No. Other than we said gosh, a year ago I think, that we would probably be less active in the security gains and things of that nature and try to have a more stable environment in that regard but that was something that we said some time ago, and so other than that, no.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: Our next question from the site of Jefferson Harralson with KBW. Your line is open.   

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KBW: I want to ask a question about the LaSalle transaction, is there anything out there that could block this deal and at this point, and would you consider renegotiating this deal to just take the Chicago branches if one of the two buyers came to you with that?   

KEN LEWIS: Well, we're anticipating closing as scheduled. As I mentioned early in the fourth quarter, we're anxious to get on with it and we expect to have the entire company and are looking forward to having it, so the answer is we like it as it is. As you recall, we think it has a great IRR and some upside potential as well.   

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Great. And on the follow-up on the equity investment gains. It continues to be a lot stronger than your guys conservative forecast. You still think or what is your thinking about equity investment gains in the second half of the year?   

JOE PRICE: I'd refer you back to the kind of comments we made earlier where I said the basis probably a 3 to 500 million number with market conditions dictating anything in excess of that.   

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Okay.   

OPERATOR: Our next question is from the site of [Jonathan Finger] with [Finger] Interest. Your line is open.   

JONATHAN FINGER, ANALYST, FINGER INTEREST: Thank you. Good morning. I had two questions. One relates to your portfolio duration and how that ties back to the other comprehensive loss and how you might expect that to roll off as you go forward and my second question relates to your outlook for the dividend and when you might announce a change or an increase?   

KEN LEWIS: Well, I'm going to start with the dividend and Joe can get to OCI. As I mentioned in my comments next week, the Board meets to consider the dividend in our recommendation, and as you know , we have a very strong history of dividend increases and I look forward to continuing   

JOE PRICE: On the rate management side in the portfolio and the duration, clearly, as rates have moved up, we experienced higher level of OCI. I guess I'd go back and remind you that that's one half of the equation. Don't forget we have the absolute best indeterminant maturity deposit base around and that we, as a result had to create some level of matched maturity on there or some longer maturity fixed rate assets and that is really what's driving it. So when we look at those combined, while we're cognizant that one goes through OCI and the other one doesn't and we have to be cognizant of that to deal with it, it doesn't present any problems for us in the way we're running the Company.   

JONATHAN FINGER: Okay, great. Thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: We'll take our final question from the site of Betsy Graseck with  Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.   

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, just a follow-up on the duration question. Are you doing anything differently in the slightly steeper yield curve environment or is there opportunity for you to do anything differently to enhance the returns that you're getting from the portfolio on the bond side?   

JOE PRICE: That's nothing significant contemplated at this time. We feel pretty good about the posture, the rate posture of the Company. We feel pretty good about all of the other aspects so no, nothing currently of any magnitude contemplated.   

BETSY GRASECK: And the speed with which you've been moving from securities into loans has decelerated a little bit. Is that, are you nearing the end of that process or are you--?   

JOE PRICE: We had said that we had an actual sale of securities back third quarter last year, I guess it was, I'm trying to remember exactly, and we said paydowns and maturities would be the run, so any real change in that pace of run-off has simply been a pace of paydowns in the mortgage backed securities. So think of it more of as a [Convexity] question.   

BETSY GRASECK: And then on dividends, Ken, as you indicated long history of rising dividends and typically in the second quarter. I just wanted to get a sense about on the payout ratio side, you indicated 40 to 50% over time and you're at the high end of that range. Are you thinking about changing that range at all at this stage?   

KEN LEWIS: Actually, Betsy, we think more in the 50% range, and we have said even then if we go over the 50%, that doesn't bother us, so think of it in the higher end as opposed to the 40%.   

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and then on, lastly, on more of an operating business question. I just wanted to get an update from you on the U.S. Trust integration. Your thoughts as to any investments that might be needed there and how you are also doing with regard to the affluent customer growth program that you've been engaged in.   

KEN LEWIS: Well, first, we would expect in the third and fourth quarters to spend more in the Wealth Management area, particularly around the U.S. Trust name and so you'll see some marketing efforts that would be larger than we normally would have in that regard. Things have gone well with that combination. The teams are in place and so everybody knows what their responsibilities are and they are at the moment obviously engaged in calling on clients and making sure we are talking to them on a regular basis. So that's about all I would say about that.   

With regard to mass affluent, there's a lot of effort going on around that segment. We think it offers incredible potential and you've heard the numbers of 7.5 million clients who qualified who are not in the premier group, and Pat Phillips and others are actively engaged and in fact will be leading on that tomorrow to see what they think we should be doing in addition to what we are doing to take advantage of that. What we have come to grips with is that there are not enough client managers out there to actually serve every one of them with a client manager so we're going to be doing some things differently with call centers and other marketing efforts to better serve them and to get more of the investment balances.   

BETSY GRASECK: And is there any sense that you might want to be expanding the number of people as well in addition to just the call centers?   

KEN LEWIS: Yes. I think we added 300 client managers over the past year and so that pace will continue, but even at that pace, you can't get to 7.5 million clients, but we are adding a client manager at a pretty rapid pace.   

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thank you.   

KEN LEWIS: Thank you, very much, and have a good day.   

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's teleconference. Thank you for your participation. Have a great day, and you may disconnect at any time.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070726e37j000xe
  


 HD
 Q1  2007   Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
6,440 words
   PD
19 April 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day. There will be an opportunity to ask questions during the question and answer session, and please note this call is being recorded.   

I would now like to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Please go ahead, sir.   

   TD
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning, everyone. Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin their comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and these statements involves certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. And these factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. And for additional factors, please see our Press Release and SEC documents. And with that, let me turn it over to Ken.   

KENNETH LEWIS, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning and welcome. I'm going to start by doing year-to-year comparisons and address a few items from the corporate perspective and then I'm going to turn it over to Joe for some additional color, including further elaboration on net interest income and some other items. I've given the number of the banks that have reported to us this week. Most of you understand the macro trends that affected the industry this quarter, so we'll try to avoid addressing what you already know.   

Reported earnings in the first quarter were $1.17 per diluted share excluding merger charges, or $5.3 billion, up $0.09 or 8% from a year ago, and down $0.02 from the fourth quarter. As you heard us say on Investor Day in February, as well as in our outlook we provided in January, we try to manage our businesses to provide consistent corporate earnings results throughout the economic cycle. In my word, consistently good as opposed to occasionally great. As we are well aware, the competitive landscape continues to be intense. The yield curve is very challenging and credit cards continue to tend towards normalized levels. With that backdrop, I believe the results this quarter, once again, are confirmation that diversification and scale do matter.   

On a managed basis, as you can see on Slide 5, noninterest income grew 16% from a year ago, offsetting a 3% in net interest income, and a 23% increase in credit cards. Despite the challenges, we are having success with many initiatives across all of our businesses with deepening relationships, we're growing our customer base, and diversifying revenues. But comparing results to the first quarter of last year, you can distinguish several positive trends related to these initiatives. Average managed loans across our three main businesses grew a combined 11% or almost $60 billion since the first quarter a year ago, and continue to increase from the fourth quarter.   

Overall deposit growth across our three main business showed 5% growth from a year ago, and is regaining some momentum with growth of 1.8% since the fourth quarter. The sheer numbers are $638.7 billion in the fourth quarter '06 to $650 billion in first quarter '07. Currently the profitability of these achievements is muted by the interest rate environment, but should be apparent in the current statement. Managed fee revenue for the three main businesses, which is Slide 7, which excludes most of equity investment gains, is up 11% from a year ago.   

In Global Consumer and Small Business Banking, Slide 8, new customer generation continues, reporting net new retail checking account openings of 487,000. New account growth within card services was $3.4 million for the quarter, and reflected strong sales efforts in international, unsecured lending, and business card, which is offered to our small business customers. Speaking of small business, sales of products, including both loan and deposit products, reached record levels and were up 34% from a year ago.   

Within GCIB, Slide 9, Capital Markets and Advisory Services revenue was up 3%, compared to record results a year ago. Investment banking income was up 35% from a year ago while total sales and trading revenue was down 6%. These results, along with the 42% increase in sales credits from second year trading demonstrate that our investment in the fixed income platform over the past couple of years is producing desired results.   

Within Global Wealth and Investment Management, Slide 10, investment and brokerage services income were up 12% from last year. Columbia Management on the back of good investment performance has had several quarters of positive client inflows, including most notably equity funds which have driven a 16% increase in Columbia's asset management fees. In premier banking investments, investment and brokerage services are up 20%, reflecting a 33% increase in fee-based brokerage accessed and improved productivity of our sales force. We continue to investment in this business and have increased our client managers from 12% from a year ago.   

Outside of our three main businesses, equity investments, Slide 11, is experiencing quite a turn around from just a couple of years ago. Equity investments is somewhat kind of reciprocal to the flat yield curve, and obviously, is benefiting from global liquidity. Results this quarter continue to grow at levels that are unsustainable longer term, but offer a position offset while the yield curve is flat. Although we expect future results to eventually normalize to levels above about half of our current results, we still expect near term levels to be above normal, subject to normal material change in the current market environment.   

Switching to expenses for a moment, the efficiency ratio continues to remain well under 50%, as we balance the investment needs of our businesses against being efficient and productive. Our success in hitting the targets on the MBNA trend integration has allow us to make continued investments which impact the results that I just highlighted, while keeping expense growth to just 2% from a year ago. In general, credit quality trends are in line with previous expectations; overall consumer and commercial credit quality remains sound, but we remain vigilant in underwriting and monitoring our exposure, given the aggressive and highly competitive credit markets that have developed over the past few years.   

In summary, the first quarter reflected good customer-driven metrics across the board, versus a year ago, but these positive trends were somewhat hidden by the environment. From a pure earnings perspective, certain businesses stepped up to offset short-term slowdowns in other businesses, and I believe the rest of 2007 will mirror this diversity in a number of businesses will drive to growth. It will be a team effort, with certain businesses taking their turn to drive earnings. And with that, let me turn it over to Joe to expand a bit on some of the points that I referenced.   

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken. Let me spend a minute on some housekeeping items first. Since we closed MBNA on the first day of 2006, our comparisons with the prior year are on an actual versus a pro forma basis now. Obviously, any comparisons to 2005 are still pro forma.   

We did make some changes in how we present our businesses this quarter. The most beneficial to you being the reporting of the Global Consumer and Small Business Banking segment on a managed basis. Our consolidated revenues are reported on a GAAP basis, so for those of you who want a corporate managed perspective, you need to add the 1.1 billion managed to GAAP adjustment we provide for you in Global Consumer and Small Business Banking.   

In addition, in the 2006 results, we moved some sole businesses, those being the Latin America businesses and our Asia retailing and commercial business out of GCIB, and into All Other to make comparisons with last year in our main businesses, so it's easier for you to analyze. Lastly, we made some additional changes to how we report other businesses including some adjustments in certain management accounting methodologies and allocations. But these changes are relatively minor, and like the above, had no impact on consolidated results. We issued an 8-K last week that incorporated these changes in our 2005 and 2006 results. So you may want to use those numbers when referring to those years.   

Now, turning to our economic outlook, as a reminder, during the last part of last year, the latter part of last year and into the first quarter, we believe the economy was on an upward trajectory. So, as you would expect, we maintained protection from a possible move from the Fed to further tame inflation. As of today, we're a little more cautious due to the impact of the economy for moderation and the growth of U.S. corporate profits, the lack of robust and good business investment in what appears to be a more prolonged drag from the housing slowdown. It actually wouldn't surprise us to see sub 2% growth for the first half of 2007. However, we continue to see strength in our customers and clients across the franchise, as is evidenced by our solid credit results.   

Turning to the income statement, all of you are aware of the seasonal impacts we experienced in the first quarter, so I won't dwell on them other than to point out that directionally net interest income, service charges, and card income are normally down from the fourth quarter, while trading is often up. Now, as we foreshadowed for you in January, net interest income was down from the fourth quarter, as well as from a year ago. The decrease of $345 million, which you can see on Slide 12, in core net interest income on a managed basis from the fourth quarter was driven by several factors. First, two less days in the quarter, which amounted to something just over a $150 million impact. Secondly, derivative accruals, amortization of flow swap positions and cap premiums, which amounted to approximately an increase of $170 million; reduced commercial leasing revenue resulting from the adoption of FSP 13-2, which amounted to around $65 million; and finally, the fourth quarter sale of our Asia retail and commercial businesses and lower impact and purchase accounting adjustments this year, which approximated $35 million. Now, these factors were offset somewhat by asset growth.   

Another factor impacting net interest income was a decision on our part, given some stabilization and mix, to grow deposit levels by focusing on certain products. And you can refer to Slide 13 to see this. Core retail deposits were up 1.4%, and they were actually up 1.8% if you consider some non-relationship balances that we allowed to run off. This is the largest increase we have seen in several quarters, and we think is in line with market growth. Now, while continuing to balance profitability and market share, we executed a pricing strategy to deliver competitive rates at or slightly below the market medium this quarter. We attract and protect rates and balances through a combination of products which include different types of CDs and money market mutual funds. These type actions position us for a solid net interest income trajectory later this year and into 2008, versus maximizing earnings this quarter.   

Now, the main drivers of net interest income going forward are not so much rate dependent, but relate to the core momentum in our businesses and balance sheet, which we feel pretty good about. As you would expect, the net interest margin also fell and was driven by the issues I just talked about along with the impact from a higher level of mortgage loans. Let me comment on expenses before I turn to credit quality. The impact of FAS 123R or the recognition of stock equity awards for retirement eligible associates, was $397 million this quarter, or $0.06. A smaller but similar number was recognized last year. So expense comparisons year-to-year are reasonably valid. Recognition of this expense occurs largely at the date of grant, which is in the first quarter.   

Now, as Ken said, credit quality was sound and is essentially in line with our thoughts in January. Provision expense was lower than net charge-offs by $192 million for two main reasons, and this is detailed on Slide 14. First, we added additional legacy  Bank of America credit card accounts to our master trusts, plus we securitized more out of the trust, which in both cases reduces the allowance required on held loans. Second, both commercial and consumer reserves were reduced principally reflecting the sale of our Argentina portfolio. These two actions together totaled approximately $300 million. Partially offsetting these reductions were reserve increases due to seasoning, and a trend to more normalized loss levels in the card services consumer and small business portfolios. Now, although the provision this quarter appears low compared to the January guidance, we still expect an annual provision number more in line with the comments in January.   

In the first quarter, managed consumer credit card losses increased $46 million, producing an annualized loss ratio of 4.73%, slightly better than our expectations when we last talked to you at Investor Day. As we told you then, we expect consumer card losses to peak in the second quarter of this year, as seasoning from growth and the legacy BAC portfolio over the last few years runs its course. In the second half of this year, we believe consumer card charge-offs will drop due to the lower impact from seasoning, but then continue on an upward trajectory going into 2008, as it trends to more normalized levels which we continue to peg at somewhere between 5 and 5.5%.   

As we said before, reaching that level for an entire year is not expected until next year, if not later, obviously subject to economic conditions. Since we focused on customers that tend to carry higher financing balances versus transactional balances, we experienced higher levels of charge-offs in that group, but also higher levels of revenue, giving us a more than adequate risk-adjusted margin. The risk-adjusted margin for the U.S. consumer and business card, and you can see this in the supplemental information package on page 14, was 7.82% in the first quarter, versus 7 -- or 8.74% in the fourth quarter. This was due to high credit losses, the seasonal impact of lower interchange, and a higher cost of funds.   

Now, a similar strategy applies to small business, which is a strategic focus for us and where we have experienced fairly dynamic growth, average outstanding and small business credit products are up 30% from a year ago to $14 billion. Net charge-offs have increased $94 million from a year ago, to 4.6% of the portfolio. These charge-offs are included in the commercial charge-off line, which helps explain the increase you've seen over the past several quarters. Now, the lion's share of these charge-offs is in our business card product, and as referenced earlier is managed along with consumer card on a risk-adjusted margin basis. Business card net charge-offs are included in the 7.82% risk-adjusted margin I referenced just a minute ago.   

Now, I think I'm spending way more time on credit quality than is justified by earnings and our strong credit metrics, but I realize that investors are sensitive given recent market events in the subprime arena. So on Slide 15, we have updated for you the metrics we presented in Investor Day around our consumer real estate portfolios. As you can see, we continue to have high FICO scores and low LTV ratios on a refreshed basis.   

In addition, we continue to mitigate a portion of our credit risk, approximately $155 billion at the end of March, principally on our residential mortgage loan portfolio. And in the first quarter, net charge-offs in the residential mortgage portfolio were $6 million or 1 basis point of the portfolio, while home equity charge-offs were $17 million or 8 basis points, both at the low end of the industry ranges. It's worth pointing out that the $6 million and $17 million in net charge-offs were both down from fourth quarter levels. Similar to small business, we focused on home equity lending in the past few years with great success.   

Let me make one final comment around credit quality. Credit [inaudible] levels were relatively flat with large cap in the impact of our Latin America sales being declines. Those were offset by increases where you would expect, exposure in the home builders sector and seasoning in the small business portfolio.   

Now let me move from credit quality to a short discussion on our adoption of fair value option. And this is only because we'll discuss it in this quarter's 10-Q, and I wanted to make sure that you understand what we did. We were an early adopter of FAS 157 and FAS 159, which we refer to as FVO, or fair value option and fair value measurement. FVO accounting was adopted for several portfolios, the biggest being a portion of the large corporate credit book, effective January 1st. Retained earnings were reduced by $208 million, with normal impact to P&L this quarter. This adoption allows to us move these exposures to the credit trading desk where they will be more actively managed, and thereby enhance our management of excess concentration risk. It also allows us to account for these exposures on a mark-to-market basis versus accrual accounting. And this will eliminate the asymmetrical accounting between the loans and the commitments and the credit defaults swaps or other instruments that our team uses to hedge as both will be on a mark-to-market basis and they'll be managed by the same team.   

FVO selection involved approximately $25 billion in binding exposure, of which approximately $5 billion was utilized. Now our net promotional hedge positions were $4.3 billion at the end of March, down $4 billion from the end of the year, with most of the positions facing this fair value option book. In addition to the impact of fair value options, other unusual items during the quarter that may be of interest to you included the gain from the sale of our operations in Chile, Uruguay, and Argentina of approximately $46 million. Now that's included in the All Other segment and is in addition to the reserve reduction that I talked about earlier. We also had securities gains of approximately $62 million. And helping to drive the increase in mortgage banking income was a greater volume of sold originations from both the current quarter's production, but also from earlier originations that had been held in our corporate investments group.   

As you can see on the bubble chart on Slide 17, our interest rate positioning continues to remain liability sensitive and is relatively unchanged from how we were postured at the end of the year. The sensitivity amounts are slightly larger because the passage of time and changes in the forward curve since December 31st. As I mentioned earlier, we are a little cautious about the economy, however, given inflation concerns and the Fed's posture, we have maintained protection against rate increases.   

Let me finish with some quick comments on capital, which you can see on Slide 19. Tier 1 Capital at the end of March was 8.57%. Remember that the acquisition of U.S. Trust, which is expected to close on July 1, will reduce that level by about 30 basis points. And then in the fourth quarter, we will begin marking to market our investment in  China Construction Bank, which at today's value should have positive impacts on the tangible and total capital ratios. During the quarter we repurchased 19 million shares on a net basis. Now, over the past four quarters, we reduced shares outstanding by more than 3%.   

In closing, let me echo Ken's comments earlier by saying that our associates are successfully executing on the strategies that will drive consistent long-term growth. This momentum is evident in our customer metrics, revenue growth, and stable credit quality, but somewhat masked by the yield curve impact. Given these positives, we feel we are very well positioned for the future. With that, let me open it up to questions, and thank you for your attention.   

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]. One moment, please. Our first question comes from Nancy Bush from NAB Research L.LC.   

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Hi, Joe. Could you just speak to the -- a couple of things: Number one, the change in strategy on deposit raising to the CD side. Is that in response to competitive positions or pardon me, conditions, or what's the reason for that?   

JOE PRICE: Nancy, if you look across the deposit platform, we actually feel pretty good about the -- first of all, the stabilization of what was throughout last year a mix change. So if you look at noninterest bearing, as well as the other accounts, you'll see that's stabilized, and we actually did not have any drops there comparatively. The growth, however, that shows up principally in CDs, and to some extent, beginning in the money markets is really a result of some strategies that we put in place from product offering standpoint, both a balanced reward where we reward customers that retain their balances with us in the money market side, and then the risk-free CD that you've heard us talk about before on the CD side. And it tended to be those -- those programs that drove the balances more towards the CD product. But we feel very good also about the stabilization in the core noninterest bearing and otherwise.   

NANCY BUSH: If you could also just clarify the comment you made early on about the moderation in the economy and something about sub 2% growth. Could you just repeat what you said?   

JOE PRICE: Yes, all I was referencing there, Nancy, was that we are a little more cautious. If you look at U.S. corporate profits moderating, if you look at what appears to be a more prolonged spillover from housing, the low business investment pattern, it's those factors that tempered our view on the GDP growth in the first half.   

NANCY BUSH: Okay. So you were talking about GDP growth of less than 2%, not your own growth?   

JOE PRICE: Correct.   

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you.   

JOE PRICE: Yes, economic growth.   

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mike Mayo from Deutsche Bank.   

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.   

KENNETH LEWIS: Good morning, Mike.   

MIKE MAYO: The last two quarters, revenues have gone down and expenses have gone up, and the efficiency ratio went backwards like 200, 300 basis points. Now, I know you are within your long-term range. It compares well to peer, but how do you think about that at this point?   

JOE PRICE: I think if you look across the businesses, Mike, we feel very good about all the client metrics, all the fee income parameters and everything that's going on. The expense base, again, we obviously have managed expenses if you look link quarter but really, year to year -- a year-over-year. So really the strength is there. It's being somewhat masked by the impact of the flat curve, and we feel very comfortable, but once we see some break in that, that you will see the progress that we are making underneath. So that's kind of the backdrop for how we feel about it.   

MIKE MAYO: Is there a point where you say we're going to pull back on some investment spending because you think the current environment will last longer than you expect?   

JOE PRICE: No. We -- we -- we talked about Investor Day kind of the aggregate project spend or initiative spend. If you look at that spending pattern, a third of that is kind of have-to-do. Two-thirds of it is kind of to grow the business, and we really feel like we need to maintain that to drive us forward on the right trajectory. We -- obviously, we maintain pretty heavy expensive discipline across the board anyway, though.   

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And one unrelated question. The NTAs and mortgage and home equity, can you just elaborate on that some?   

JOE PRICE: Yes, that -- actually, there's two components to that, Mike, that came on. One, we had a securitization that hit a cleanup call that we called back. So you can almost think of that as a -- it had some non-performing assets in it, so that was an economic decision to recapture the over-collateralization and securitization. That drove a good portion of that increase, but we did see some increase in your core home equity and mortgage, albeit very small on a relative basis. And it really is commensurate with the growth in those businesses.   

MIKE MAYO: I'm sorry, I didn't fully understand. So you had a securitization that you decided to call back, or you were required to take back.   

JOE PRICE: We decided based on economics. In the cleanup call, we had the option of doing that, and so we did that to recapture more economics, more earnings. And it brought on a piece of that increase. I was differentiating that from the core business.   

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jason Goldberg from Lehman Brothers.   

JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. Good morning. I realize that the yield curve was a factor on the interest margin, but I guess now we have a shift in deposit strategies impacting the margin. I guess as we kind of go forward, is there additional changes we should suspect? Or how should we think of that relation to the margin?   

JOE PRICE: Yes, first of all, I don't want to signal a major shift in deposit strategies. All we were really saying is that we have continued to supply our associates and our salespeople in the field with a product necessary to drive that, and right now, the product growth tends to be more in the -- in some of the CD, and we've begun to see more in money market. Having said that, we felt very good about the core noninterest bearing and other deposits. I don't want to put too much emphasis on that piece. There are no other real "strategic changes" in how we manage the margin from that standpoint. All the businesses continue on the path that we disclosed to you or talked about at Investor Day.   

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. That's helpful. And then I guess, Ken, on Bloomberg this morning, you were quoted as saying a European acquisition by B of A is possible, I guess in relation to the ABN deal. Can you just maybe give some clarification or elaborate on your thoughts about all of that?   

KENNETH LEWIS: Yes, with the way you said that, I need to clarify it. I think the question was, do I ever see us making an acquisition and as I recall, I said certainly I can't say over the near term, but if you go out several years, that's possible. But that -- I think that's the gist of what I said, Jason.   

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. And then just lastly, you mentioned the CCB mark-to-market coming in the fourth quarter. How do the rating agencies look at that, and is that going to be, I guess, a market available to you?   

JOE PRICE: Well, the -- the rating agencies, obviously, are aware that that's coming. We have had those discussions with them, and it's in the context of our projections that we would talk with them about. So it would -- it really only helps you in total capital and total leverage, because you pick up, I guess, in Tier 2, you pick up the -- some of the equity OCI. It doesn't help you in Tier 1 or Tier 1-based risk piece. So I think it is a consideration, just like every other factor is, versus anything in particular driven off of it.   

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]. Our next question comes from Ed Najarian from  Merrill Lynch.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning.   

KENNETH LEWIS: Good morning, Ed.   

ED NAJARIAN: Joe, your comments with respect to the balance sheet management and your net interest income outlook, it seemed to imply perhaps relatively stable NII in the second quarter and then a reacceleration in the second half of the year. Is that -- is that the right way to look at it?   

JOE PRICE: I don't want to get into quarterly guidance here, Ed, so let me stick with kind of the solid trajectory later this year and into '08, as we talk about. The real point I was trying to make is that's not as much curve dependent as is core business momentum dependent, which we -- again, which we feel very good about.   

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, but solid trajectory implies that we should see some growth in the second half of the year relative to the first half of the year.   

JOE PRICE: I think that's fair.   

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Matthew O'Connor from UBS.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning.   

JOE PRICE: Good morning, Matt.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: The asset quality in card held up a bit better than I had though, and I was just wondering if you could give us a sense of the magnitude of the increase you expect in 2Q?   

JOE PRICE: I think I'd default back to the -- to what we have said throughout the quarter, and that is that we wouldn't expect to hit that target range on an annual basis. Possible we could hit it in a quarter. So I think that would suggest to you that we'll still trend up in the second, but then we'll level off and go down. But we'll still be in this range that we have been talking about. Nothing outsized compared to that.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. I guess most importantly, when we look at the delinquency trend, it seems like you are starting to get stabilization there.   

JOE PRICE: Yes, we felt -- we saw a decline in 30 days, and I'm talking about kind of consumer card here, which is I think the lion's share of this. 90 days still ticked up slightly, but we feel a portion of that is attributable to the success we had not having things go to charge-off. And we actually -- I think we actually wait until we have six consecutive payments before we'll reschedule it to current, and a number of other people I think go with three. So that's why you see the buildup in 90 as we make more progress, either keeping it out of charge-offs, it will take a little while for us to be able to reschedule it to the extent that's possible.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. All right. Good. And then also related to card, the carry-on balances were down about $5 billion. Is that seasonal, or is there some run off of that direct mail business that you're de-emphasizing?   

JOE PRICE: It is mostly seasonal. Actually if you went back and looked at the previous year, same period, the percentage decline is actually less. So we actually had a little less seasonal decline on the end of period balance than we had experienced on a combined basis with MBNA and  Bank of America together, but seasonalities are on that. You should see that across the industry, I think.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. And just lastly, if I may, you probably have less mortgage risk relative to your size than most banks. I think at your February conference, you mentioned that if spreads improved enough, you might be opportunistic. I'm just wondering how you are feeling with the current levels right now.   

JOE PRICE: I'm sorry, I missed which product --   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Oh, on mortgage. You probably have less mortgage risk than [inaudible] and subprimes than most banks your size, and at the February conference, you talked about if spreads improved enough, if pricing widened out enough, that you would look to potentially add some exposure.   

JOE PRICE: In terms of direct origination of subprime, that's not the case. I think we were referring then to the extent from a capital market standpoint, that there are discretionary pools that have appropriate returns that we might want to stress trading desk with that type of activity that we look at. And that's kind of a day-to-day -- that's a transaction-by-transaction type of decision.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Is that something that you have been doing or will do soon?   

KENNETH LEWIS: Something we have a small amount of as part of the routine basis for our structured and credit products desk, but it is not of any significant size.   

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Great. Thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]. Our next question comes from Ron Mandle from GIC.   

RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi.   

JOE PRICE: Hey, Ron.   

RON MANDLE: In regard to credit, your comment was that you are sticking with your credit provision, that you are sticking with the January guidance which I had as $6 billion for approximately for your provision?   

JOE PRICE: Correct. What I was trying to do is I felt with the lower number this quarter, it -- it didn't -- somebody extrapolating that number, I was just trying to put you back on the trajectory we talked about earlier.   

RON MANDLE: Right. Where I was going was that, say you had about $1.2 billion and you mentioned the reasons for reserve releases, which if you matched charge-offs, you would be about $1.4 billion. I guess what I'm asking is, how do you get to 1.6 if the card may get a little worse in the second quarter, but then improves, which is so much of earnings, I guess that implies that you see deterioration elsewhere? If you could elaborate on that point.   

JOE PRICE: I think the way I think about it is we intend to grow the business, and you will have to provide as you grow. So it will be a little provision for that. Just the typical reasons, but realistically, that charge-off rate, coupled with the things we told you and incremental provision that we need to cover our growing business is -- is kind of why we say stay in the range we originally talked about.   

RON MANDLE: So it's really just growth, not deterioration that you see?   

JOE PRICE: Correct.   

RON MANDLE: Okay, good. Thanks very much.   

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Ed Najarian from  Merrill Lynch.

ED NAJARIAN: Yes, just as a quick follow-up. You talked about the seasonal weakness of card fee income, which we can see it there on the fee income line, but could you give us some insight as to why it was actually down on a year-over-year basis, and to what extent you expect to still see full year growth in terms of credit card fees or overall card fee income?   

JOE PRICE: Yes, I'm trying to -- you are looking at total, not managed, I guess. I'm just trying to make sure I've got the numbers. If you look on a managed basis, that's the easiest way to do this. Look at the business unit levels. We are up year-over-year, down quarter-to-quarter. If you then go to the total corporation piece, we will get the down quarter-over-quarter -- year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter that you just described. The principal difference being the increased charge-offs that we have been previously talking about that go into that line item for anything that's securitized. So again, if you are looking at that [inaudible] version, you get that added piece. If you go back to the managed, which is reflective of the core business, you will see it was up. And there it was the seasonality component of interchange and a little -- and less contribution in that line from the I/O that comes off the securitization this year versus last.   

RON MANDLE: Okay. Okay. That's helpful. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: It appears that we have to further questions at this time.   

KENNETH LEWIS: Thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: That concludes the call for today, and you may now disconnect.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070426e34j000v1
  


 HD
 Q4  2006  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,552 words
   PD
23 January 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day. All sites are in a listen-only mode on the conference line today. Please note today's call may be recorded. At this time I would like the turn the program over to Kevin Stitt. Go ahead, please.  

KEVIN STITT, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks for joining us. Before Ken Lewis and Joe Price begin comments, let me remind you this does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.  

   TD
With that let me turn the meeting over to Ken Lewis.  

KENNETH LEWIS, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. I guess by now you've heard several conference calls, and I know you've read numerous earnings releases that talk about the accomplishments in 2006 so you probably dread one more earnings call, but here we go anyway. Actually it was a pretty good year for most of the industry, given the outlook a year ago and the challenges of a flat yield curve.  

If you remember our discussion a year ago, Bank of America demonstrated strong results in consumer banking but underperformed in some of the other businesses, including capital markets. Coming out of last year's conference call investors had questions about sustainable revenue growth and consumer banking, the successful integration of MBNA, our ability to grow and participate in a robust capital markets environment, and whether we would ever get any traction in asset management. I believe our results throughout 2006 prove that we not only exceeded expectations from a year ago, but have produced a better platform for further success.  

Let me start the discuss by spending a few minutes on the results for the full year and then I will turn it over to Joe to dig a little deeper in the quarterly results and our 2007 outlook. For the second consecutive year, we produced double-digit EPS growth while integrating a major acquisition. 2006 exceeded our expectations from earlier in the year as robust business activity, good expense control, and a slower trend toward normalized credit quality more than offset dampened results caused by flatter yield curve. Earnings before merger costs in 2006 were $4.70 per share, an increase of 14% versus 2005.  

On a pro forma basis, as you can see on the Slide 4 in the supplement earnings of $21.6 billion before merger charges also increased 14% versus 2005. This performance, pro forma, was driven by 10% increase in revenue and expense growth of only 1%, which highlights revenue growth initiatives in each of our business, globally liquidity, the successful of the MBNA integration, and our focus on operating leverage. These dynamics, including the disposition of businesses in Latin America and Asia, more than offset a negative swing in security gains of $1.5 billion.  

In 2006 core net interest income on a pro forma basis was up 4% from the prior year in line with core growth in 2005. However market based net interest income was down 15% driven by the changes in the yield curve. Combined, net interest income was up approximately 3%. Non-interest income was up 18% driven by excellent growth in almost all of our businesses.  

The biggest dollar increases were card income on a pro forma basis, that was about $1.5 billion, trading account profits, $1.4 billion, and equity investment gains of $978 million. Part of the card increase was related to the decreased credit costs from last year's change in the bankruptcy law. Remember the trading account profits have to be measured in conjunction with the drop in market based netted interest income. On that basis total trading revenue increased approximately $1 billion or an increase of 31%. The significant operating leverage attained in 2006 kept our efficiency ratio below 50% which has been our stated goal for the past two years. Provision for credit losses dropped light slightly from pro forma results a year ago due to bankruptcy reform and a slower trend toward normal consumer credit quality levels.  

From a business perspective as you can see on Slide 6 all three of our core businesses had revenue and earnings growth. Global consumer and small business led the way with earnings growth of 19%, driven by 7% revenue growth and a decrease in expenses of 1%. Product sales for the year including credit card, checking accounts, savings accounts, home equity were quite strong totaling approximately 44 million, up 7% from last year. Checking sales were the highest in franchise history.  

Our e-commerce channel produced sales growth of 44%, 70% improvement in the fourth quarter.  

The integration of MBNA was quite successful as we converted 120 million customer accounts, impacting more than 500 technology systems. We materially accelerated our cost savings with MBNA. In addition, we had revenue growth due to the promotion of Affinity cards through our distribution channels and incurred a much lower loss of revenue from our [fast institution] partners versus our assumptions.  

In global corporate investment banking, 10% revenue growth and 2% operating leverage also decreased from the benefits in 2005 of reserve release and lower security gains to produce earnings growth of 6%. Treasury services along with Capital Markets and advisory services had very good years with double-digit revenue growth and single or high single digit operating leverage. Business lending had the toughest comparisons given the flat yield curve, competitive pricing and narrowing credit spreads. But success was attained in other ways through double-digit loan growth, increased client count and products per relationship.  

Global wealth and investment management earnings grew 2% driven mainly by 11% higher asset management fees. Operating leverage in this business was negative reflecting our continued investment in sales and client support associates and premier banking and the private bank.  

Assets under management surpassed the half trillion dollar mark during the year and closed the year at $543 billion, up 13% from a year ago. Net in-flows of $38 billion largely drove the increase. Columbia Management and premier banking each had revenue growth of 13% which produced earnings growth of 15% and 17% respectively.  

Outside of our core businesses the biggest driver in other was the increase in investment equity investment gains. Actually, the equity investment gains act as a natural offset to the net interest income headwind. Both the liquidity driving the gains and the low growth in net interest income are related to the economic environment.  

One other thing I would like to point out in the consistency in results across the board we have achieved over the past two years also, on a pro forma basis. Although net interest income growth was materially hindered by the rising rate environment in both years, double-digit fee revenue growth and affected expense management have created very attractive operating leverage. These accomplishments enabled us to offset a $2.2 billion decline in gains on the sales of debt securities and increase EPS by 25% before merger expenses over the two-year period.  

As we look to the future, our excitement is not driven by what we achieved in 2005 and 2006, but is fueled by the opportunity that lies ahead as we continue to invest and innovate in businesses that have attractive growth potential, but I know you're all laser focused on the past quarter, so with that I will turn it over to Joe.  

JOE PRICE, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken.  

Good morning and welcome to our review of the fourth-quarter earnings. Today I would like to touch on highlights from the quarter from both a corporate perspective and within each of our businesses. In doing so, I will try to cover some of the key factors that will drive future results. We'll also provide some 2007 direction based principally on how we see economic and general business conditions playing out. Since this is my first earnings call, I will probably provide more rather than less information. Finally, I will reiterate our long-term perspective which should provide you with the information you need to evaluate our performance and prospects. A reminder, we'll hold an investor conference on February 26th and 27th at which time we'll go into more detail around our opportunities for growth.  

One other thing, I am assuming most of you have read the press release and have access to the financial supplement. Consequently for the sake of time and your sanity I will avoid repeating many of the numbers. Our IR people will of course be available to help you with any questions that arise beyond what we address today.  

Fourth quarter numbers reflected solid economic conditions with seasonal volatility in both revenue and expenses. Individual business results mirrored this and reflected continued momentum that has been evident all year. We continue to successfully manage through the headwinds of an inverted yield curve as well as a continuing return to more normalized consumer credit costs. Many of the year to year comments Ken highlighted drove results in the fourth quarter. Let me elaborate first on the consolidated line items. You may want to refer to Slide 8 in the presentation package to follow along. When discussing results today I will focus primarily on properly comparisons with MBNA included in the 2005 numbers.  

Earnings before merger charges were 5.4 billion or $1.19 per share. While I won't spend much time on it, results versus the fourth quarter a year ago were very impressive with significant fee revenue growth in almost all our core businesses. One item of note, during the quarter we closed on the sale of our Asia commercial banking operations, recognizing a gain of approximately 165 million included in other income.  

Looking at comparisons with the third quarter on Slide 10, net interest income on an FTE basis was up 61 million from the third quarter results with an increase in margin of 2 basis points. Core NII decreased 50 million on a held basis while increasing 40 million on a managed basis. The decline on the held basis was due to the sale of our Brazilian operations in the third quarter, which was approximately 110 million quarter to quarter impact ,plus the securitization of additional card loans partially offset by higher loan levels in the repricing of assets. In addition, core NII was also positively impacted by our continued balanced approach between deposit market share and profitability you heard us describe before. The core margin actually increased 11 basis points, primarily due to the lower level of securities which is a discretionary decision we made last quarter. Given the flat yield curve environment, incremental assets added including mortgage loans should give some of that back in Q1.  

Market based NII increased 111 million due to higher trading related earnings assets coupled with a slight uptick in yield. As Ken said earlier, remember this line item should really be annualized in connection with total trading revenue, not on a stand alone basis.  

With respect to our interest rate posture at year end compared to the end of September which included the impact of the securities we sold, we reduced our net pay fix swap notionals and added more cost effective interest rate caps with little change in duration. This move maintains protection against a material increase in rates leaving us fairly neutral. Overall we're slightly more sensitive to a parallel shift up or short end led flattening while we would benefit more from a decline in rates. We still maintain the benefits of a steeper curve.  

If you refer to the bubble and sensitivity charts on Slides 11, 12 and 13 in the handout, you can see the net effect of all these moves. At this time we really don't see much impetus for the Fed to move either way over the next six-plus months.  

Moving away from net interest income, remember in the third quarter we realized a pre-tax gain in other income of 720 million from the sale of our Brazilian operations and also realized a gain of 82 million in mortgage banking income from the sale of hold loans. The absence of gains in the fourth quarter explained much of the decreases in other income and mortgage banking income from the third quarter.  

Versus the third quarter, non-interest expense increased 230 million. While several line items reflected the usual fourth quarter surge, the biggest increases were in professional fees plus 109 million in data processing, an increase of 61 million due partially to initiative ramp-ups in the various businesses as well as higher consulting and other fees.  

One last point I want to make before I talk about the businesses, is that provision exceeded net charge offs by 153 million. Consumer reserves increased by 256 million while commercial reserves decreased 112 million. The increase in the consumer reserves was driven by seasoning of portfolio growth in card services and by the trend towards more normalized loss levels. The decrease in commercial reserves was the result of sustained favorable commercial credit markets which have resulted in a longer than expected period of stable credit quality.  

Now let me turn to the business segments. On Slide 14 let's start with global consumer and small business banking which earned 202.5 billion, up 16% from a year ago but down from the third quarter. Compared to the third quarter annualized revenue growth was up 7% in line with the growth from a year ago driven mainly by card services. Average loans were up 3% from the third quarter, driven by home equity plus 6% followed by card services and residential mortgage. The deposits business earned 1.2 billion during the quarter, down slightly from the third quarter due to flat revenue and normal trends and expenses. Average deposit levels were down from the third quarter although spreads were up as we maintained our disciplined pricing strategies which offset a continuation of the mix shift to more expensive time deposits in this higher rate environment. I will note that in the latter part of the quarter we did see a leveling off of this trend and more movement into transactional balances.  

If you view deposits from a retail perspective and add in the Columbia retail money market funds levels are up 1.4 billion from the third quarter. Much like we saw a year ago service charges were down slightly from the third quarter levels driven by seasonal declines in ATM usage and one less business day in the quarter, but still reflected an 11% increase from a year ago.  

In the fourth quarter key business metrics continued to be very strong. Net new retail checking accounts, including all franchise sales in the quarter were 363,000, down seasonally from in earlier quarters but pushing the total for the year over 2.4 million. Activity late in the quarter and into January indicates strong momentum entering into 2007.  

Debit card revenue compared to the third quarter was flat as benefits from higher seasonal retail spending volumes were dampened by lower average ticket prices in both the retail and fuel sectors. Active online banking customers increased to 21.3 million, with more than half paying their bills online, far exceeding any competitor. E-commerce continues to increase in importance as a sales channel representing 20% of total product sales in the quarter versus 14% a year ago.  

Given our economic outlook for 2007 we're targeting non-interest income growth in the deposits business to continue at a high single digit rate. Innovative introductions like Keep the Change, and zero-dollar equity online trade along, with risk-free CDs, and balanced rewards, should drive deposit growth although NII growth will be muted by the interest rate environment.  

Turning to Slide 18, looking at card services on a managed basis, earnings of 1.2 billion were up significantly from a year ago due to a 4% managed revenue growth, a lower expense base and lower credit costs, versus the third-quarter earnings dropped as revenue of 4% growth was offset by higher credit costs. The fourth quarter as you know is seasonally strong, and this year was no exception as interchange revenue increased at a double-digit rate. Card services loan growth of 2% from the third quarter reflected moderate domestic growth, but better growth in the international card which was up 5%. Managed credit costs in card services were up 668 million from the third quarter. Our delinquency rates have continued to increase due to several factors that we detailed last quarter, seasoning the legacy portfolio, adoption of MBNA collection practices that historically led to higher delinquencies but lower loss rates by allowing accounts we expect to self cure to do so and devoting more time to riskier accounts, and as I've already mentioned, the trend towards more normalized loss levels.  

As a reminder our core U.S. consumer card strategy revolves around the franchise customer relationship where we can drive more profitable growth. Our franchise customers tend to use cards on average more for financing versus convenience when compared to others resulting in higher spreads. Likewise, a spread product portfolio versus one with a higher percentage of customers that is pay off each month will naturally carry a higher charge off rate.  

We managed to a net risk adjusted margin, which for a franchise portfolio is higher than one originated predominantly through direct mail channels which is characterized by heavier rewards and incentive programs along with heavier convenience usage. Higher profitability is also driven by the lower origination costs which in the branch sincerely about one third of the cost of direct mail. In 2006 37% of domestic credit card sales were originated through the franchise, our branches plus other channels versus 24% in 2005 continuing our strategy of delivering new accounts through lower cost channels. Direct mail production dropped to 27% from 37%.  

Managed credit card loss rates in the fourth quarter were 4.45% versus 4.11% in the third quarter, and we expect this to trend higher in 2007. The risk adjusted margin in card services for the quarter was 8.55% versus 8.69 in the third quarter. Although credit costs in 2007 will limit earnings growth, we continue to believe that card services will be able to generate long-term revenue growth in the high single digits.  

As of the end of 2006 we successfully completed most of the significant transition initiatives related to the MBNA acquisition. We still need to complete the business card conversion later this quarter as well as a few other projects. You heard Ken's comments on the success of the conversion. Cost saves this quarter were 456 million, or 99 million incremental, compared to the third quarter bringing the cumulative savings for 2006 to 1.25 billion. Through accelerated execution of strategies we nearly achieved in the first year our original two-year run rate cost-save target. The level of cost saves as well as the bankruptcy impact materially offset greater than expected compression in the margin line making the MBNA acquisition accretive to EPS earnings in 2006.  

Looking at Slide 19, moving to global corporate and investment banking, earnings for the fourth quarter were 1.6 billion, up 23% from last year but down from the third quarter mainly due to the sale of Brazilian operations that increased earnings in the third quarter. Business lending includes commercial and large corporate lending along with commercial real estate leasing, business banking and dealer financial services. Business lending earnings at 585 million exceeded third quarter levels mainly due to credit allowance releases.  

Revenue was flat on a linked quarter basis as the net interest margin stabilized. Average loan levels grew at an annualized 5% pace from the third quarter versus 8% from the fourth quarter a year ago. Our clients remain healthy and outside of a few relatively small pockets of stress, we are not seeing any noticeable deterioration in credit quality. This coupled with the continued strong market liquidity led us to release some commercial credit reserves during the quarter. Suffice to say that commercial credit costs will increase from 2006 levels but absent some unforeseen economic event, it looks at this time like it will be driven by lower recoveries and lower allowance reductions. Credit mitigation costs which are principally reflected in other income were 63 million for the quarter compared to 36 million in the third quarter and 222 million for the year as spreads continued to tighten. In the short-term, business lending growth will be hampered by both these credit factors and the yield curve so achieving the longer term growth objective of 7 to 10% is dependent primarily on increasing our share of wallet of the issuer clients we manage in this segment.  

Turning to Slide 21, Capital Markets and advisory services reported earnings of 385 million, up significantly 93% from a year ago, as well as 25% from the third quarter. We continue to make significant progress in the areas where we have invested, which as you know have been centered in the U.S. in areas of debt underwriting and sales and trading. Debt underwriting fees led the increase in investment banking income increasing 32% from the third quarter and 41% over last year. The overall investment banking pipeline continues to be very strong. The remaining revenue during the quarter, including market-based net interest income, was down slightly compared to the prior quarter although up 17% versus last year's fourth quarter due to a weaker performance in fixed income offset partially by stronger performance in equity sales and trading.  

For the full year 2006 we have seen total capital markets and advisory services revenue increase 21% while expenses consistent with our investment grew 16% lead to go a 26% earnings growth. As we referenced last year, given our initiatives we expected higher than trend growth in this business, and we achieved it. Going forward we still expect a longer term growth rate in excess of 10% and should see some incrementally higher growth as our investment initiatives continue to pay off.  

We remain committed to building our business in areas where we choose to compete. Over the next few years we'll direct more of our spend to go building out capabilities to say serve our multinational and sponsor clients in Europe and Asia as well as our fixed income international platform spending some 300 to 400 million primarily in GCIB.  

Turning to Slide 22, the their business guilt within GCIB is treasury services which had a good 2006. Earnings were up 16% in the full year. Reported income in the quarter of 544 million is down 5% from the third quarter on fee income seasonality and slightly narrower spreads. Clients continued to opt for a more advantageous deposit mix in light of the continuing higher rate environment. During 2006 this business has benefited from higher rates which increases the profitability of its deposit base. In addition, non-interest income has benefited from increased client penetration and both market and product expansion. Like our international platform in Capital Markets, GTS represents one of the biggest areas of investment in 2007 as we enhance our leadership position in corporate payments and cash management. We continue to target 7 to 10% earnings growth long-term and our planned investment spend will keep this team challenged to do achieve this in 2007 but should equip them to do so.  

Turning to Slide 23, our third maiden business segment, global wealth and investment management, earnings in the fourth quarter were 602 million, up nicely, or 9% prosecute the third quarter. Much like our other businesses, non-interest income was up 10% from the third quarter due mainly to higher asset management fees. As Ken summarized, assets under management reached 543 billion at quarter end, up 26 billion or 5% from the end of the third quarter which included net in-flows of 17 billion. Columbia Management continues to perform well with earnings growth of 16% from the third quarter driven by 11% revenue growth in positive operating leverage. We're proud of our equity funds performance and in a year in ranking of firms more than 10 funds and $10 billion in AUM, our equity funds for the one-year period into 12/31/06 placed first out of 52 firms based on Morningstar's percentile rangings. On a three year basis, 88% of our equity funds were in the top two performance core tiles compared to the peer group.  

Premier banking and investments had earnings growth of 4% and revenue growth of 3% over the third quarter. Notably non-interest revenue grew by 11%, that's brokerage sales activity. Loans grew by 4%, and deposits by 5%. The private bank showed some modest improvement with revenue up 2% and earnings up 5% from the third quarter. Other bright spots included loan growth of 3% and deposit growth of 8%. We expect Columbia double-digit rate and premier and investments -- premier banking and investments a high single digit rate to continue earnings growth going forward and for the private bank to leverage its capabilities with U.S. Trust. We anticipate closing the U.S. Trust acquisition early in the third quarter.  

Before moving on, let me say a couple of things about our zero dollar equity trade program. In the fourth quarter we launched the program rolling it out to 47 states. New self directed account openings of approximately 26,000 were up 54% versus the openings in the third quarter. Deposit balance growth is encouraging, but since many factors drive deposit growth we're currently analyzing the trends. We'll share more information as it becomes available.  

Looking at Slide 27, in addition on our main businesses, there is equity investments which we report in all other and includes principle investing. Equity investment gains across the Corporation were 1.1 billion during the fourth quarter up 362 million from the third quarter. As it is done all year, globally liquidity as a phenomenon driving most of the cash gains. Versus the third quarter, the increase was driven by liquidation of European investment along with some additional corporate investments. Going forward we assume results in 2006 are unsustainable going into 2007. But while this earnings stream is subject to more volatility than others, we do think a normalized level is higher than our earlier guidance of 300 to 350 million per quarter given the robustness in market liquidity.  

All in all the quarter was representative of what we had been seeing all year, solid loan growth across several areas, robust investment banking in capital markets activity, strongly liquidity in the private equity arena, progress with the MBNA acquisition, very impressive account openings in retail, and good growth in assets under management and GWIM. Going forward into 2007 we expect an economic environment that is moderately favorable. On a macro basis we believe the economy will continue to cruise along, achieving trend GDP growth of about 3% per year driven by moderate growth in both consumer and business investment spending.  

Trajectory going into the year continues to strengthen. Repeating my earlier comments, we don't see a catalyst that will cause the Fed to act over the near term, so we view the flat curve to be with us for awhile. Loan and deposit growth generated by the franchise will continue to offset some of this headwind, but we don't see growth in core net interest income on a full-year to full-year basis beyond the 3 or 4% range, which is where it has been for the past two years. But remember, the dispositions in 2006 of our Latin America and Asia commercial banking operations will impact that growth. Consequently while we expect growth in core net interest income to be in the low single digit range, it will be less than the trend range the past two years.  

With respect to the first quarter of this year, we expect these factors coupled with the fact of the first quarter had less days to drive a drop in first quarter net interest income with a graduate increase ore the remaining quarters. Credit quality will provide a headwind as we trend back to more normalized loss levels.  

Looking at investor expectations for provision, most have provision levels at amounts over 6 billion, and that's about where we come out. Even though provision is expected to be up 20% or more from reported 2006 levels, a strong market position, attractive risk adjusted margins and substantial distribution advantage position us well versus the competition. On the expense side we're aiming for positive operating leverage but more like 1 to 2% versus the high single digits we have been producing.  

Since we're on expenses, remember that similar to the first quarter of last year we'll have an additional expense of $0.05 to $0.06 in EPS related to our expensing certain equity-based compensation awards for retirement eligible employees or FAS 123-R. The balance sheet shouldn't change materially, and we continue to build our strong capital position and at the same time repurchase shares. During the quarter we repurchased 40 million net shares. We also adopted FAS 158 which addresses the accounting for certain employee benefit plans. That adoption resulted in a 1.3 billion reduction in shareholder's equity in OCI and reduced the tangible capital ratio by 9 basis points to 4.35% at year end.  

Tier 1 ratio was not impacted and ended the quarter at 8.64%, an all time high. Looking forward we expect the impact from the U.S. trust to reduce Tier 1 by approximately 30 basis points. We expect to continue to actively manage our capital base given that our earnings and capital levels remain quite strong.  

Although I have given you our outlook in several areas, I really think this is one of those years where you the investor have enough facts to make a logical decision on a range of earnings. You know the headwinds will mute earnings growth, but you also know our businesses are performing quite well. The biggest question for most of us is the health of the economy, and we think we're in pretty good shape.  

While I have made some comments about growth in our various businesses I want to close by reiterating what we discussed a year ago during this earnings call about long-term growth in our businesses. In the long term we're focused on producing 6 to 9% revenue growth at the total Company. Combine that with positive operating leverage and some capital management gets to you the 10% EPS growth on an annualized basis. As you can see on Slide 30 as well as in my remarks today, the faster growers in the long-term are capital markets, Premier, Columbia and card while most of the remaining businesses are more correlated to GDP but have enhanced growth, by being ubiquitous and innovative in faster-growing markets. We hope to expand some more on our growth opportunities with you in the next few weeks.  

With that, let me open it up for questions, and I thank you for your attention.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] We'll take our first question from the site of Mike Mayo with Prudential Equity.  

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY: Good morning.  

KENNETH LEWIS: Good morning.  

MIKE MAYO: One general question on efficiency. For like the last 15 years the Company wanted to have an expensed revenue ratio under 50%. It is there now. What's left with the efficiency story over the next several years, and specifically how much is left with the MBNA savings, and you did have negative operating leverage at least on a linked quarter basis, so where do you go from here with the efficiency?  

JOE PRICE: I think you're right, Mike, in terms of the 50% target remain in the corporate target and where we achieved that. Let me address the MNC item first. We did hit a run rate as we explained that was long-term target or the announced target from MBNA, so that run rate will annualize into the future years, into next year from that standpoint. With regard to ongoing, the ongoing expense levels, I think as we described you saw some level of surge, typical seasonal in the fourth quarter, and as I mentioned earlier, I see the operating leverage being down slightly from this year, but it still would stay in the positive territory.  

KENNETH LEWIS: Mike, this is Ken. Two things. One, we would never think of operating leverage on a linked quarter basis. We always think of it year-over-year. You couldn't, with the volatility you have in some of those line items, you could never manage it on a quarter to quarter basis. Secondly, while we don't have a target, you know, below what it is now, if you think about the arithmetic inherent in positive operating leverage, you would always take that down some degree as long as you have positive operating leverage.  

MIKE MAYO: One other question, maybe this gets us ready for the on-site conference. Since the early 90's you wanted to be the biggest bank in the U.S. You are there now and can measure examine by share. You look at your long term targets and you have slower growth in other areas than the traditional banking area. In terms of business mix, what's your appetite for changes that? And I am a little surprised you say deposits high single digit long-term growth. Wonder if that is too aggressive?  

JOE PRICE: I think the first thing backing up to our comment earlier, that's the deposit business, so not necessarily just balances. We reiterated our description of kind of how we approach the deposit side. On the mix side, while -- and then the growth rates we gave you, Mike, if you look at our franchise, we still feel there is substantial opportunity in the organic growth side, and don't see, necessarily, a strategic imperative to change that mix to achieve the growth rates that we've been talking about.  

KENNETH LEWIS: Mike, and then just to follow up on that, we have our strategic imperative is around discipline focus on several embedded opportunities. One would be particularly the small business market where we see chances to or opportunities to grow loans at a faster pace than we have in the past and you can see that in that our deposit market shares are greater than our loan shares. We'll also have several initiatives around direct to consumer mortgage. Secondly, in Premier we talked a lot about that. We think that's a huge embedded opportunity with the huge number of clients that we have in the consumer bank that are potential clients for the -- that qualify for the premier group. And then the buildout in Europe and Asia of our capital markets activities where we see huge opportunities and where we plan to spend $300 or $400 million over the next few years to build that out. Then finally, in card, we see several opportunities to expand in other countries offshore because we're now are just in Canada, Ireland, Britain, and so we think there is chances to go beyond that. But that's where our strategic opportunities are and what I call the embedded opportunity.  

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of Jason Goldberg with Lehman Brothers. Go ahead, please.  

JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. Good morning. I guess if I look at the long-term targets you laid out today, I guess versus the long-term targets presented about a year ago, I guess it looks like some modest down ticks, now looking for 6 to 9% growth in consumer small business versus what looked to be 10% plus a year ago, and I realize global corporate investment banking is presented differently but that looks like your'e targeting 7 to 10% versus a blended rated of 8 to 11% last year, am I reading that correctly and what's changed?  

JOE PRICE: I think what you're trying to pick up on the is changing presentation we've had as we've redefined some of the business segments. Really there is not a long-term outlook change embedded in what we're trying to present to you.  

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. I guess I will follow up. And then secondly, I guess last quarter you talked to downsizing the securities book by about 100 billion. You obviously made significant progress this quarter. I guess going forward what pace should we expect that to continue at?  

JOE PRICE: Just think about paydowns, run off from paydowns, and that would pace us somewhere in the probably 5 per quarter or so, look that to be an 18-month plus number that you would be looking at.  

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay. Thanks,and lastly, Joe and Al came in to BCF always did see changes in terms of presentation, and some strategies. I guess you've had like a couple months on the job now. I guess any kind of initial thoughts as you kind of take a look through things?  

JOE PRICE: A couple of weeks, not a couple of months, but --  

JASON GOLDBERG: You knew about it?  

JOE PRICE: I think a lot of presentations and disclosure that is Al championed and we here as a Company did are all in the context of trying to be as informative to you as we can. While I don't have any specific additional ones other than maybe trying to continue the evolution of our customer metrics over time, I think really you're seeing what we feel we're pretty comfortable with, although I would say make sure our IR team knows something of in particular that you feel would be much more helpful.  

JASON GOLDBERG: Great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. A couple questions. One on credit. Given your outlook for slight deterioration or normalization of credit, how is your appetite for trying to hedge that through products like CDS?  

JOE PRICE: I think in the supplemental material you can see it, but we do run a short credit book, a CDS book if you want to call it that, principally to correct ourselves against credit deterioration in the large cap book, but it does in essence protect us from general credit deterioration. Also we brought the levels of that down slightly this quarter. You can see the numbers in the supplemental package. That really pertains more to our term outlook right now. When we look across our customer base and in especially in our global investment banking world, we do see strength in our customers, while we expect some normalization, that reflects an outlook as it did in our reserve action.  

BETSY GRASECK: The CDS that you have relative to the size of the portfolio is still very small.  

JOE PRICE: In regards to the total portfolio it is.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right.  

JOE PRICE: Remember CDS referenced instruments tend to be bonds, not loans that are higher in the capital instructed, so you get some -- you have to think about the leveraged effect of those when you try to compare apples and apples.  

BETSY GRASECK: At this stage you wouldn't anticipate any material change to your hedging strategy there?  

JOE PRICE: No.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. With regard to the balance sheet strategy of continuing to allow the securities to roll off, increasing loans and swaps, that strategy persists?  

JOE PRICE: Yes.  

BETSY GRASECK: Have you no change there. A little broader question on Premier, Ken, you highlighted several areas you're focusing on for incremental growth, one of them being Premier. I would think that the effort that you've recently undergone to have zero cost equity commissions is one-way of trying to test how interested the Premier customers are in your client base in dealing with Bank of America, and I think you mentioned that had you've wen pleased so far, but maybe you could give us a little more color on how the program has been running from your perspective relative to expectations, and what other opportunities there are for investment to gain the market share that you think you should have in the premier space.  

JOE PRICE: I don't really have anything more to add to that particular product. As I said, we'll give you -- as we learn more we'll present that to you or provide that to you, but if you back up for a minute and go back to Ken's commented about our embedded opportunity around the Premier segment, remember that -- and we said this before -- there is some 8 million mass affluent households in our franchise, which only about 10% are in this being managed by this client management team, so where we see the opportunity, and by the way, clearly you get a much higher revenue lift in earnings lift when you provide the attention to these clients. Where you really see our investment initiatives would be in the continuing to build the -- that client management team and the financial advisor to say take care of that client base. That is the crux of opportunity we see out there.  

BETSY GRASECK: And you've been dressing that organically so far given increased competition in the space. Is it still fair to think about your growth as being organically driven or is there any growing discussion of possibly looking to make acquisitions?  

KENNETH LEWIS: Betsy, this is Ken. Actually the -- it is a combination of not just financial advisors but more and more obviously Premier client managers. Actually the profitability is driven more through bank products than is the venture advisor products, or the investments. So there is no -- we're not really talking a lot about acquisitions around that because the real way to do is is as fast as you can add your Premier client managers. More so than even financial advisors.  

BETSY GRASECK: And bringing in the bank product?  

KENNETH LEWIS: Correct.  

BETSY GRASECK: Any discussion around taking your brokerage product even a little bit more aggressively in terms of pricing, now you're at zero commission, but there is a question as to whether or not the deposit threshold might be too high?  

KENNETH LEWIS: Well, we're always -- there is nothing static here, and so we don't have anything to announce, but we're always looking at that.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Lastly, on mortgage, I think you have a pilot program out in Washington with a no-fee mortgage product in place. Could you just give us a sense as to what you're hope to go learn from that and the possibilities to extend that nationwide as well?  

JOE PRICE: Yeah. We're currently in the pilot stage as you mentioned, and customer reaction to that so far has been pretty good, but we're at the stage of evaluation to see where that leads to. Obviously any pilot we feel is successful will become something that we would focus on in our core business line.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Success would be measured by market share gains, I would assume?  

JOE PRICE: Market share gains, but remember it is part of a relationship consumer relationship based strategy, so it is broader than just looking at a single product.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of Andrew Collins with Piper Jaffray. Go ahead, please.  

ANDREW COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFREY: Good morning.  

KENNETH LEWIS: Good morning.  

ANDREW COLLINS: I got on a little bit late, but I was wondering, if, Ken, you addressed acquisition appetite, particularly in Europe? I think I know your answer, but if you could just kind of hit on that.  

KENNETH LEWIS: Yes. I guess that's been hot and heavy since August of last year, and the Mondays keep rolling on. I do want to make it clear that before I mention -- before I answer your question directly, that there is a lot going on at Bank of America in the international arena and particularly in Europe. I mentioned our positions in card in Ireland and Scotland and England, the fact that we're looking at other countries, and we're looking at other products to expand in via that platform. We have a lot of investment now in our global corporate investment bank and capital markets area, in the European platform, and Asia platform for that matter, so it is not like we're not doing anything in that arena. I had said, first that we can't ever say never because that would be irresponsible, but I just think that a European acquisition would cause us to have to pause and be more thoughtful because there are just so many things we haven't done before, we haven't done that before, and so many elements to it that we would have to look at to see if they would -- if the way we do things would work in something like that. So again our strategic opportunities, I mentioned earlier on, are embedded opportunities. We're going to be very disciplined and focused in making those happen, and I don't know somewhere down the way or in the future if something would happen or not, but that's not what we're thinking about.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Okay. Great. And then other unrelated question. On your net charge-offs in the credit card area, I guess they were up about 34 basis points, a little bit more than your peers, and if you could just discuss kind of the FICO scores that you're currently carrying if you can, and also I guess that's kind of provided in the current kind of flat run rate on provisions going forward?  

JOE PRICE: I guess let me -- I don't know if you wer on the call when we tried to describe a little bit of our portfolio and our strategy around our card business at large. We really are focused on our risk adjusted margin as a place to start thinking about that. With respect to specifics about FICOs, I will just say that we really, in our platform, whether it is as I described earlier direct mail because you never have 100% one or the other, but whether it is direct mail or whether it is the franchise we really don't have a different credit underwriting standard. It is more looking at the financing client versus maybe the convenience client. We don't obviously originate anything of significance in the subprime arena there. We do have secured cards for people that we are trying to help, you know, learn how to manage their finances and cards, so it is a prime portfolio, and I don't have any specifics. I don't really provide the specifics FICO.  

KENNETH LEWIS: And we talked about the fact that some of it is seasoning, and some of it is a little change in composition to the more financing profile as opposed to the purchase profile.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Okay. Finally one last question. Keep the Change versus no-fee trading. I was wondering if the initial signs are as good as Keep the Change was and how we might expect that to lead to increased checking account growth going forward?  

JOE PRICE: Are you speaking to the Keep the Change or more to --  

ANDREW COLLINS: More no-fee trading, and I know that you'll describe that a little bit further.  

JOE PRICE: All I can tell you at this time is the deposit balance increases and activity are very encouraging to us, but we're in a period where we're seeing a lot of that type of balance growth occur in this mix change dissipates, and we don't want to get fooled by what's really driving it. Right now it is very encouraging, and once we get through that we will present that to you.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of Nancy Bush with NAB Research. Go ahead, please.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. I apologize. The sound quality on this call for me is quite bad, and if you could -- I was just lost some of the forest for the trees here and looking at all of these pages of detail. If you can just go through sort of the major pieces of how you expect to get to 10% earnings growth, I would appreciate it because I've gotten lost in all the lines of business, et cetera.  

JOE PRICE: First of all, that last chart that was in there is our long-term view. What we tried to present, Nancy, was to give you the long-term view of the various businesses and our long-term outlook on the Corporation, and then describe the headwinds that we're confronted with here in the near term and try too give you a framework to think about that. While we don't want to -- I am not commenting on bottom line growth from that standpoint, a framework we try to paint for you entailed the business momentum we've got in each of the businesses, especially in the fee income, non-interest income component coupled with the headwinds of the continued flat curve and the normalization of credit losses, I really think it is a year where you have to put all of that into your own framework to get the near term objective.  

NANCY BUSH: Secondly, if you could just update us on the China construction bank position and when that gets mark-to-market.  

JOE PRICE: I guess the -- that gets mark-to-market in the third quarter, and so that would come into OCI because it would come into equity, and remember that you're regulatory capital implications excluded OCI, but your tangible does, so that's where it would show up for you.  

NANCY BUSH: Would it make any difference as to your repurchase plans, et cetera?  

JOE PRICE: In and of itself it would not -- it would be one factor in all of our capital planning, but it would not by itself sway itself one-way or the other.  

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of Matthew O'Connor with UBS.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: If I can follow up on the question regarding the credit card losses, if I adjust for the min-pay in 3Q, it looks like managed charge-offs rose 70 basis points, and the risk adjusted margin was down close to 50. I am just wondering, one, maybe a little more color on what's driving that and, two, where you expect the charge offs to go versus the fourth quarter level.  

JOE PRICE: First, let me address the delinquency or the charge off changes. We went through earlier the various components or the various factors whether it is the portfolio seasoning we described earlier or our normalization on the bankruptcy trends, our practice changes too, in collection that I described earlier, all of those things really have gone into what you see in our delinquency levels. In our loss charge off ranges, as I described earlier, probably is much driven by the seasoning as the normalization at this point, and with respect to looking forward, on that coupled with the margin, which you have to remember the net interest income associated with these cards, all the various fees and everything still put us very comfortably in the range of where we expect our risk adjusted margins to come out. Going forward I probably default back to the overall guidance on loss levels as opposed to trying to provide guidance on individual line items.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: I am sorry, I might have missed it, but the risk adjusted margins guidance in the credit card, you think that will be relatively stable in '07?  

JOE PRICE: I think normalized level there is probably 7.5 to 8.5% range. That's normalized for after your normalized seasoning as well as the bankruptcy charge-offs, et cetera, from that standpoint.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. We could get a little more drive from the seasoning and then the bankruptcies are obviously still well below normal levels, that would still be a positive, so potentially offsetting there?  

JOE PRICE: Correct. As I mentioned in the prepared comments we would expect that the loss rate to still trend up a little bit.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. All right. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of John Pandtle with Raymond James.  

JOHN PANDTLE, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Good morning. Looking at the return of earnings to shareholders through dividends and is share repurchases approached 100% in the quarter versus 82% a year ago. Should we view that as a normalized level, and if not, what is a more normalized level for '07?  

JOE PRICE: First of all, I think it would -- we would look at the share buyback scenario in the context of just capital management. If you looked back over time, you would see that our first and foremost objective is to support the business growth. Absent or with excess capital then you have the opportunity for share buyback. I would say the last year or so was more elevated. I would probably look more at the trend line from the '98 forward to give you a little better feel for where we would be thinking about.  

JOHN PANDTLE: Okay. Thank you.  

JOE PRICE: I misspoke earlier on that OCI, on the OCI comment of CCB coming in, it's fourth quarter not third quarter. It bridges that into October some. Whoever asked that question earlier.  

OPERATOR: Okay. We'll take the next question from the site of David Hilder with Bear Stearns.  

DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: A couple of questions. At the last conference call your predecessor had talked about trying to get the bubbles on the interest sensitivity slide down to 0, and they seem in the interim to have actually grown a little bit. I wondered if that was a change in philosophy on the part of management or just reacting to market forces?  

JOE PRICE: No real change. I probably start with comment about our outlook for where the Fed is going. We, last quarter may have been slightly different in the forward curve in regards to thinking that the economy was a little stronger. I think we still continue to feel as I mentioned earlier that we've got a pretty good outlook on the economy, and therefore we don't see much impetus to move, so any changes in the profile were simply a reaction to posturing in the market as opposed to anything specific around our outlook. We still feel good about the outlook and the ability of -- or the propensity of any movement one way or the other to be pretty small at this point in the near term.  

DAVID HILDER: I guess given the rally in long-term rates toward the end of the year, I was a little surprised not to see a further reduction in the securities portfolio. Is that still something you intend to continue to bring down substantially?  

JOE PRICE: Really looking at this point for that to come down on maturities and pay offs.  

DAVID HILDER: Rather than sales?  

JOE PRICE: But consistent -- that's a consistent response to where we originally intended, so the original sale was really the component of that maturity or that run off that would be based on transactions or sales.  

DAVID HILDER: Okay. And just one final kind of reminder. What is your view of your target Tier 1 ratio or your minimum Tier 1 ratio?  

JOE PRICE: Consistent within the past, Tier 1 at 8+%.  

DAVID HILDER: 8 plus?  

JOE PRICE: Yes.  

DAVID HILDER: Great. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of Jefferson Harralson with KBW.  

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KBW: Thanks. I was hoping I could ask you guys about the budget process this year. When we had a group in there in the fall you were talking about the general processes, that you take a bottom-up approach to revenue, you evaluate technology and other types of investments you want to make, and you come up with the expenses kind of back into the expense line to get you where you need to go. How hard did you need to or how hard did you cut back reinvestment this year? What kind of technology investments are you making this year, and from then how much did you have to go back and to find the expenses you needed to produce a good EPS growth year this year?  

KENNETH LEWIS: Let me start with -- well, since I am in charge of that, I will speak to that. We, on this year's budget, what we call growth initiatives, that's mainly technology of some sort with some people mixed in, is going to be about a billion dollars this year which is about the same as it was last year, so we did not cut the growth initiative budget, and then as Joe said, we then managed to a 1 to 2% range of operating leverage off of the revenue.  

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Okay. Did you I guess contemplate the -- cutting that growth budget in order to produce a better year this year but would hurt you in future years, or what was the I guess the internal process of whether or not to produce better EPS growth this year versus cutting that billion dollars down by a few hundred million?  

KENNETH LEWIS: That's always the easy way out is to think about that, but we've maintained for several years now the budget about that -- at about that. I guess it's been anywhere from 700 million to a billion, you know, over a course of time as we've gotten bigger and it's gotten bigger. We wouldn't say at all times no matter what that that would be inviolate, but it pretty much is unless we're in just some dire economic straits that we just had to do it, but we don't like to go much below a billion at the current -- at our current size.  

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: And lastly, can you comment the one or two biggest projects that the billion is going for this year?  

JOE PRICE: I think I would go back to my earlier comments about our expansion of -- continued expansion of the capital markets business and in our global treasury payments system. Those would be two that we would highlight where we feel really good about.  

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of Ron Mandle with GIC.  

RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, folks. Ken, I was wondering there were some newspaper articles a week or two ago about your possibly being interested in raising the 10% deposit cap in the U.S., and I was wondering how you feel about that now? Are you pushing for it, and if it changed, what would you do?  

KENNETH LEWIS: We thought it is true that we were out talking about it, frankly a little more aggressively than I would have liked, and we do think it is an industry issue at some point in time, but obviously it is only a Bank of America issue at the moment. And so what I did was tell our people to just back off, if somebody asks you your opinion, you can tell them, but do nothing more on an agressive posture to do anything because it sends the wrong signal about what we want to do in this country. So the articles were accurate, but some of the motives attributed to us were not accurate, and we've just stopped the press on that.  

RON MANDLE: You're not going to be pushing in the current Congress for an increase in the ceiling?  

KENNETH LEWIS: No, we're not. As I said, if asked, we will state our opinion, but we are not -- there will be no aggressive action on our part.  

RON MANDLE: Okay. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. It appears we have no further questions at this time. I would like the turn the program back over to Kevin Stitt.  

KEVIN STITT: Thank you very much. Thanks for joining us today. See you in three months.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
c15 : Performance | c411 : Management Moves | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070130e31n000p3
  


 HD
 Q3  2006  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,354 words
   PD
19 October 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
KEVIN STITT, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt, Bank of America Investor Relations. Before Al de Molina, our Chief Financial Officer, begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial conditions, results and expectations, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include among other things: changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures, or legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses. And for additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. With that let me turn the meeting over to Al.  

   TD
AL DE MOLINA, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Kevin is captivating isn't he? [LAUGHTER] Good morning and welcome to our quarterly earnings discussion. Today, I'll start off with a quick summary of results at the corporate level. I'll then cover some key themes that are specific to Bank of America, or macro in nature, followed by highlights of each of the business segments. When discussing the results today, I'll focus primarily on pro forma comparisons with MBNA included in last year's numbers as I've done for the last couple quarters. The third quarter was obviously another good quarter for Bank of America, despite the impact of the flatter curve and the challenges in a slowing economy. Once again, our results demonstrated the durability of the cash flows generated by our associates executing on the unique opportunities represented by our unique franchise.  

Slide four. Earnings before merger charges were $5.6 billion or $1.22 per share. Included in these results was the non-cash cost of $0.07 per share due to intangible amortization. As I've said before, we think cash earnings is a better measure of capital generation available for shareholders. Cash EPS is up almost 30% over the third quarter of '05. Touching on the big picture first, the quarter included a few items of note. We closed on the sale of our Brazilian operations, recognizing a $720 million pretax gain. We implemented our change in balancing strategy by selling 46 billion in securities late in the quarter. As a result, we ended up with net securities losses of $469 million. With respect to the balance sheet, we've adopted a plan to permanently reduce the level of securities by at least 100 billion over the next couple of years. This will be done through the sale as well as pay downs going forward. During this quarter, we saw an opportunity to jump start the program's success by selling securities close to par and targeting a $50 billion to $60 billion reduction by year-end, including sales this quarter and remaining maturities. This reduction reflects a strategic shift in our balance sheet strategy to hold lower securities. Most of the transactions were not settled by the end of the third quarter and the related balances were carried in other assets on the balance sheet at quarter end. By reducing securities levels, we will reduce the need to manage the complexity of these assets and provide additional capacity for loans.  

Turning to slide five. Another important item to discuss is the trend in net interest margin. During the quarter, we saw a 15 basis point decline in the core margin. This particular quarter, the declining core was a little bit worse than the decline in total margin. But about half of that decline in core was due to a number of reasons unrelated to the interest rate environment including lower purchase accounting adjustments in the sale of the Brazilian operations. Another poor basis point was due to holding lower spread mortgage loans as part of the ALM process and remember the securities were on the balance sheet for the whole quarter, most of them. Only four basis points of the decline in core margin was fundamental and was due to a shift from low cost deposits to higher cost deposits, a totally rational move on the part of consumers.  

If you'll refer to the bubble charts on slides six and seven in our handout, I'd like to point out a few things. There's a silver lining to a flat yield, low volatility environment, and that is that you can position yourself exactly as you want at a relatively low cost. You can see on the chart that we've eliminated and by comparison to the June 30 chart below it, you can see that we've eliminated virtually all of the first year risk to higher rates and a flattening curve. We've also maintained almost all of the benefit to the declining rate environment and a steeper curve. The benefits to our net interest income risk position were accomplished primarily through relatively low cost purchase option strategy combined with lower securities. We fully expect to continue to aggressively manage our rate risk for the composition of our balance sheet and our derivative positions as we see this as a core competency in this competitive strength of ours. Our goal is now to get as close to 100% of the benefits of that competitive advantage with as little of a noise from securities transactions as possible.  

Economically, we still expect a soft landing and consumers balance sheet is in very good shape and corporate America is also strong from a liquidity and an earnings perspective. The full risk as embedded in the market supports this view. The correction in residential real estate is a full year in the process and the economy has proved resilient as it consistently reallocates resources. This efficiency has made us somewhat more comfortable that the negative impact from lower mortgage equity withdrawals will be absorbed and offset. Additional items included in earnings this quarter were a gain of 65 million in other income from the sale of a building and 82 million in mortgage banking income from the sale of home loans. One last point I'd like to make before I talk about the businesses is that net charge-offs exceeded provision by 112 million. While there are a lot of moving parts, much -- or all -- of the difference is really the release of reserves from in-pay which as you remember we reserved for last year.  

Now let me turn to the business results. On slide eight you have consumer and small business banking, which earned $2.9 billion in the quarter. These results were up 13% or 329 million on a pro forma basis from a year ago. When compared to a year ago, the results were driven by good revenue growth in deposits and card services more than offsetting declines in mortgage as well as ALM results. On slide nine, we have the deposits business which earned $1.3 billion, up 6% from a year ago and up 1% from last quarter. Average deposit levels in this segment declined 1% from the second quarter but was more than offset by continued steady growth in services and debit card revenues.  

At the end of last year, you remember, we turned our attention to a more balanced approach between deposit market share and long term profitability. In the third quarter, key business metrics continue to be strong. Net new retail checking accounts were a record 744,000. Net new savings accounts in the quarter were 284,000, a touch down from the prior quarter. Debit purchase volumes increased 19% from last year driven by new checking account volume, increased penetration and higher usage flows. As a result, debit card revenue is up 24% from last year. Active online banking customers increased to 20.6 million with more than half paying their bills online, far exceeding the base of any other competitor.  

On slide 11, you'll look at our second business, card services, which earned $1.5 billion up 47% from a year ago. Versus the second quarter revenue was flat as the second quarter included a $36 million gain from the MasterCard IPO and a valuation increase of approximately approximately $100 million in the excess servicing asset. This quarter, the valuation of excess servicing actually decreased by about 70 million. The risk adjusted margin continued at a very strong level of 8.69% on a managed basis. Managed provision expense in card was up 206 million from the second quarter, once again as we continue our longer than expected trek towards more normalized losses.  

We continued the shift away from direct mail to a more cost effective channels of distribution. Our delinquency rates have continued to increase due to several factors: Seasoning of a legacy Bank of America portfolio, adoption of MBNA collection practices that historically led to higher delinquencies in the 30 day category but lower eventual loss rates, and, ,I've already mentioned, the much anticipated trend towards more normalized loss levels. An important measurement to keep an eye on is the level of risk adjusted margin which indicates a great risk reward trade off. Managed card service loss rates were 4.11% versus 4.76% a year ago and 3.59% in the second quarter. Driving much of the increase from the second quarter was the impact of min-pay. We estimate that to be approximately 150 million on a managed basis.  

A few comments on the MBNA transition. It continues to meet or exceed our expectations we've been saying since the first day. We are currently in the process of integrating two card platforms and while everything is going well so far, we won't be complete until later on in the quarter so it's too early to declare victory there. Cost saves this quarter were 357 million or $82 million more compared to the second quarter, bringing cumulative savings for nine months to 795 million. The original target for all of 2006 was 675 million which we've exceeded with a quarter left to go in the year. During the quarter, we completed several projects including the rollout of affinity products into the banking centers and the E-commerce channel. To say the least, we're pleased with our progress with the MBNA integration.  

On slide 12, you'll see corporate Investment Banking. Earnings in this quarter were 1.9 billion, up substantially from both last year and from the second quarter, but mainly due to the sale of Brazil. GCIB is composed of primarily three businesses: Business lending, Capital Markets and Advisory and Treasury Services. Excluding Brazil, GCIB's earnings were down about 400 million from the year ago quarter, about 100 million from the year ago quarter. Business lending, which includes commercial and large corporate lending along with commercial real estate leasing, business banking, and dealer financial services.  

Earnings in business lending at 519 million have been under some pressure. Spread compression due to the yield curve and competitive pricing, was the biggest culprit, while credit mitigation had a minimal impact on the comparisons with the second quarter and the year ago, the year-to-date comparison shows a negative 159 million this year versus a positive 215 million in '05. Overall, credit quality remains good. Charge off levels remain very low at 16 basis points in this business.  

On slide 14, we have Capital Markets And Advisory services which reported earnings of 324 million. We continue to make significant progress in the areas where we've invested. As an example, debt underwriting is up 36% year-to-date versus '05. Fixed income trading is up 22% year-to-date. We recently received the results of a survey of fixed income investors by a leading market research consulting firm in the financial services industry. In the area of overall quality which we've observed to be a good leading indicator for future business, we have moved from Number 12 in 2003 to Number three this year. We continue to have steady trading results with an overall increase year-to-date of 15% with 40% less risk as measured by the volatility of the daily P & L.  

The third business segment within GCIB is Treasury Services which is having an extremely good year. Reported net income in the quarter of 564 million is up 20% from a year ago driven by a 12% increase in revenue and 9% operating leverage. Versus the second quarter, earnings are up 4%. This business has benefited from higher rates which increases the profitability of the deposit base. In addition, non-interest income has benefited from the increased client penetration in both market and product expansion.  

As I mentioned earlier, the sale of our Brazilian operations closed in the quarter which generated a $720 million gain which was reflected in GCIB in the "other" category. The sale, which closed late in the quarter, had a negative impact on revenue of approximately 53 million, that's 24 million in net interest income and 29 in non-interest income, but reduced expenses by about 30 million. We expect an additional impact in the fourth quarter of approximately approximately 125 million in lower net interest income from third quarter levels but the full quarter's impact on bottom line earnings from the sale is estimated to be less than 1%. We expect the dilution next year to be no more than 1%, and by doing this we've obviously increased our growth rate because of the fact that we didn't have a strong position in the divested businesses to begin with and we've also lowered the overall risk. Over time, we also expect the redeployment of capital to offset lower earnings.  

On slide 16, I'd like to turn to our third business segment: Global Wealth and Investment Management where earnings in the quarter were 553 million, down 3% from a year ago and 13% from the second quarter. Versus the second quarter much of the decrease was due to the absence of a credit recovery that occurred in the second quarter, spread compression at a lower tax preparation fees, versus last year, much of the decrease was due to high expense levels due to the buildout of Premier which more than offset higher revenue. On slide 17, you see a bright spot within GWIN and that's Columbia Management which has shown a 16% year-to-date growth in earnings on revenue growth of 12% and 2% operating leverage. Columbia had 61% of assets under Management in four and five star funds and 88% of the assets in funds that had above median performance. Approximately 1.3 billion of money from BAC customers flowed into Columbia Management money-market mutual funds during the quarter offsetting some of the deposit drop in the deposit businesses. As a result, total GWIN assets under management increased 13% from a year ago reaching 517 billion. This increase of 60 billion was driven by net asset in flows of approximately 47 billion in both money-market and equity funds in addition to improved market valuation of about 13 billion. Total GWIN assets under management increased 17 billion versus the second quarter reflecting net in flows of 12 billion from money and equity funds and higher market valuation of 5 billion. Results in the private bank have been sluggish as we're focused on enhancing sales processes and adding to the sales force, two areas of needed investment for this business going forward.  

Turning to slide 20, in addition to our main businesses, there's equity investments which we reported in "other" and includes principal investing. Equity investment gains across the Corporation were $705 million during the third quarter, basically in line with the second. Principal investing represented $604 million of that number. So to summarize, on a macro basis, we expect a soft landing. The interest rate back drop will continue to provide a headwind along with the trend towards higher credit costs. So far, we've dealt with these trends remarkably well and we expect to continue.  

Of course, we're not fully insulated from these short-term trends. Strength in our consumer business is expected to continue with our growing customer base and new programs such as zero cost online equity trades. Strong positions in the consumer payments business provide an obvious growth base as exemplified by increases in debit and charge volumes, credit card volumes and online activity. A key issue in consumer card is credit quality which will provide a headwind as we trend back to more normal losses but a strong market position, attractive risk adjusted margins, and substantial distribution advantages position us very, very well against the competition in this business. In GCIB, we expect to see continued sluggishness in business lending due mostly to macro conditions but will maintain our industry leading positions as these conditions abate and then reverse. Our DTS business is strong and has some holes to fill which represent modest investments over several years but it's a business with great growth prospects and a very strong competitive position. In Capital Markets and Advisory Services, our investment is working very well and we'll be expanding. In GWIM, we're quite proud of the progress in Columbia Management. At the same time we're continuing our emphasis on establishing our Premier segment and improving the private bank.  

In sum, while the results are quite good, the better news is how much we have to build upon in our businesses. Also, from a corporate perspective, we're making great strides in rationalizing our businesses where we don't have leading positions. We're well underway in our strategy to reduce the level of securities while maintaining our competitive edge in interest rate risk management. We continue to build on our strong capital position and at the same time repurchase 30 million net shares in the quarter. We expect to continue to actively manage our capital base to the advantage of a long term shareholder. With that, let me open it up for questions and I thank you for your attention. Ron?  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT, ANALYST: --[indiscernible] if you could give more detail of what you're going to fill that hole with at all or are you just going to free up capital and buy back more stock and additionally, are you just going to do the same thing but be in the totally same place but just with derivatives?  

AL DE MOLINA: I think that basically you're going to be in the same place but using derivatives and customer related assets to fill the hole, so the interest rate risk management process ,we think, has added a terrific amount of value over many years and we are going to continue it, and as I said in my comments and as I said in one on ones with people, our objective is I hear a lot from investors saying, "No, don't change a thing. You're doing the right thing for us." And what we're trying to do is do the right thing and get as much, as close to 100 % of the value with less noise and what I mean with less noise is less large securities transactions with gains that are recognized, less in the way of OCI hits and things of that nature, so it's really trying to simplify the messaging but keep the agility and the value of the process intact.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: And is there a net capital effect doing it off balance sheet? Do you get a benefit?  

AL DE MOLINA: Not from a risk perspective, really. I mean the economic capital that you need is more driven by how you've positioned yourself and not how or what instruments you use to do that positioning. I think in some quarters, to the extent that people look at those things that I don't really put a lot of value in, frankly, like the net interest margin, I think there will be a short-term benefit there. I think there will be in the tangible ratios, I think there will be a benefit there as well but I think those are more optical than they are economic. Economically, the capital that we need is driven more by the risk that we run in the business.  

KEVIN STITT: Thank you.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: You seem to be doing very well compared to some of the competition and the consumer area, despite the problems that we have in the flat yield curve, and I was just wondering about your ability to continue to do well in that area and maybe if you could comment a little about what's happening in terms of the decline in the mortgage in ALM results and do we see any light at the end of the tunnel with those operations?  

AL DE MOLINA: First of all with respect to the consumer, the way you ask the question, I would say absolutely yes because do I expect the continued relative performance to continue? Yes, I do believe that we can outperform and the fact is it's the uniqueness of the franchise, and the ubiquity of the franchise, both in terms of physical access points and other online asset access points, the product mix, the level of innovation that takes place in that business, so I absolutely think that our relative performance will be intact. We don't compete on price. We compete on ubiquity, and so I see no reason for that to change. So with regard to the mortgage business, the good news is it doesn't add a lot to our bottom line today. We're looking at different ways to approach that business, maybe employing some disruptive strategies like we did just recently on the online trading space but there's nothing to report at this point. We'll tell you what we're going to do when we're going to do it or maybe a little bit after we do it.  

With regard to ALM profits, keep in mind, the reason we report the numbers the way we do and have it in each segment is that traditionally we allocated the ALM results to deposits in our segment reports and the reason we do that is the reason for the ALM process is to manage the earnings risk of the deposit base. We break it out now so that you can actually see it because we were hearing from investors they would like to see how much we make from that activity. As you go through cycles in a declining rate environment, that ALM line should go up and in a rising rate environment it will go down and as an equal and opposite reaction on deposit profitability and that's why we have such an issue with the OCI question which only looks at one half of the equation. You've got to look at it all so we break that out for you. For analytical purposes, I would take the ALM profits, look at them and understand the flows, but then I'd probably look at the overall business segment results as well. From the phone?  

OPERATOR: We'll take our first questions from Mike Mayo with Prudential Equity. Please go ahead.  

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP, LLC: Good morning.  

AL DE MOLINA: Good morning, Mike.  

MIKE MAYO: Could you elaborate some on your liability sensitivity? It looks like it's gone up and you always say or someone said sometimes you get a read on what the economy is doing before others because so much volume passes through your organization and it looks like Fed funds purchased were up and now comprise over 1/3 of total funding so if rates go down I guess your positioned fantasticly but if they don't, are you exposed?  

AL DE MOLINA: I figure you've got to go back to the bubble charts, Mike and what you'll see there is we move to essentially eliminate as much, you know, I was kind of angry that the bubbles weren't gone when the quarter was over because that's what we were shooting for, but we really wanted to eliminate any short-term risk to rising interest rates or a flattening curve, and the reason, that's both the market view and kind of a fundamental view, we don't think that the Fed is going to be easing any time soon.  

We think that the market became a little bit too sanguine around that issue. I think the rally in bonds was overdone there in the quarter and so we took that opportunity to buy options where when they are cheap because volatility was low and shed some of the securities as we discussed as part of that overall balance sheet strategy, so right now, we've got very very little risk to rising rates and you can see that the benefit to declining rates didn't change much from the quarter. So, I think the real story there is much less risk because we don't think we're likely to see a declining rate environment. We're likely to see kind of status quo going forward. If we're wrong then we'll benefit from that crack, and I think that the Fed will crack the back of inflationary pressure and there's at least, in my estimation, there's at least as much of a likelihood of additional tightening than there is an ease.  

MIKE MAYO: So if I reconcile kind of going with the Fed funds purchase with the bubble chart the difference you're doing off balance sheet?  

AL DE MOLINA: Yes. I don't look at rate risk that way. I look at it based on kind of the overall simulations and that's what's embedded in those bubbles so if it's not on the balance sheet it has to be off.  

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And credit card, the average balances were up but revenues were only flat, so how aggressive are you guys with teasers?  

AL DE MOLINA: Keep in mind, first of all, not as aggressive as some of our peers and really kind of thinking about how aggressive we want to be in that space going forward with teasers, but keep in mind when you look at the comparisons, the IPO that I mentioned in my comments and also the servicing asset write up and write down which was written up in the second quarter and written down in the third, which was was 170 million swing quarter to quarter, so some of the flattening there in terms of revenues is really reflective of that, and that is driven by expectations on credit losses over the next annual period , so as you change the period you're looking at and change your estimates, what's going to happen to credit losses, the value of that servicing asset moves up and down.  

MIKE MAYO: And lastly since this is the first conference call since you have offered free trading, can you just elaborate on your intention behind that strategy?  

AL DE MOLINA: You know, as I mentioned also in my comments around mortgage, when we've got a weak strategic position and we have a spectacular franchise opportunity, that's the ideal state in which to deploy a disruptive strategy meaning disrupting someone else's model and that's what you are seeing there. We're giving our client base what they want and we're doing it in a way that takes advantage of our franchise where we have less to lose as well and that's why I say in the mortgage space and other places it's obvious where we have great strength in terms of balance sheet and also distribution advantages, but we could deploy something that's not as traditional, maybe, there as some of the other players. So it's really just -- and you'll see that maybe not as visible of a way but you'll see us deploying those types of strategies going forward aggressively.  

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.  

AL DE MOLINA: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will come from the site of Andrew Collins, Piper Jaffray. Please go ahead.  

ANDREW COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good morning.  

AL DE MOLINA: Good morning, Andrew.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Could you give us a little bit more clarity on the plan reduction in the securities book, such as how long it might take, what type of products, kind of where you might go in terms of duration, those kind of things?  

AL DE MOLINA: Well what we'll drive our view on duration in our AL sensitivity is our view on the economy and the likely path of rates, so just like you've seen even in the short period I've been giving you the bubble, you seen us move pretty dramatically as conditions changed, either risk reward conditions or our outlook changed, and so I wouldn't expect any change. We will continue to change our position based on our outlook , based on the information that we think we have and that won't change. With regard to product, I think we will try and use as much of the freed up capacity to fill customer needs as possible and then as a residual of that, we'll do the balance sheet positioning that we need to do in derivative form.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Right, but it seems to me that demand might be slowing a little bit for loan growth and I just wondered what's going to fill that void, if you will.  

AL DE MOLINA: Well, we can't control how much people are going to spend and how they are going to finance it, so we try not to get into too much of that. We just want to deliver the right products and capture as much of the payment cycle as we can and that's our strategy and if there's lower loan growth, there's lower loan growth. That does not translate to higher securities levels. It translates to less of a need for market funding and transfers to less of a need for incremental funding but it doesn't transfer necessarily into doing anything in securities forms.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Okay. I guess just asking the question a different way, wondering about the return to shareholders. It's been bouncing around, I guess it was 85% this quarter, 98% last quarter. Is there some target return to shareholders?  

AL DE MOLINA: I think the way we think about capital is we try and deploy as much of it against the business opportunities we have where there's adequate returns, and then the rest of it is a residual and so we think, if you think about the guidance that we've given you, the only bit on capital is that we look at kind of a Tier 1 ratio target of 8% and we said we might even be willing to go under that for a short period if conditions warranted, where if you do the calculation that's about $5 billion worth of excess that's available to do whatever it is that we choose to do either in the franchise or with our buybacks.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Okay, and then an unrelated question. On the venture capital, you usually talk about the 350 million as the run rate and we saw over 700 this quarter. I'm just wondering if we're achieving a new run rate there. Given the weakness in the IPO market I would have thought that would have been weak as well.  

AL DE MOLINA: No, I figure you should stick with the long term view that's closer to the previously given guidance. I keep getting trapped into -- I don't know if you recall but the first time I spoke to you folks in this new capacity I said I was going to wean you off of guidance and give you information and you guys keep trapping me into giving you guidance, but I would not count on on 700 million a quarter forever. That's not our expectation.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Okay, great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question will come from Nancy Bush, NAB, please go ahead.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Hi, Al, how are you?  

AL DE MOLINA: Good, Nancy. How are you?  

NANCY BUSH: I'm fine. Thank you. A couple questions here. The reserve release due to min-pay, could you just elaborate a little bit on that? Is the experience that much better? Is this a proactive look? If you could just give us a few reasons why that happened and secondly, on Premier, there's a comment that the investment continues and is going well, etc. If you could just elaborate on results of that product a little bit?  

AL DE MOLINA: Well, sure, Nancy. Let me -- first of all with regard to, let me take the Premier question first because that one has actually got a couple of interesting pieces to it that might be helpful to people. If you look at our net interest margin compression that we had this quarter, as I described to you, a very small portion of that contraction was driven by actual fundamental meaning people changing their appetite for products. Consumers behaved in a very very rational way. In a 1% Fed funds environment you could keep liquidity in a bank and it didn't matter and at 5% it starts to get more costly. So, people are just moving, and I would expect that to continue going forward and then if you peel back who is moving the money, again, as you would expect, it's the higher balance customers that are moving their money.  

Then if you take the next cut and say: "What's happening with our Premier covered clients versus our mass market covered clients?" The Premier clients, which the difference is they have got a client manager, have a much faster movement from those categories to higher yielding alternatives, which means that we are doing what we're supposed to do for the client in advising them to move that money, notwithstanding the short-term cost of that in net interest income. And then you step away and you look 18 months, two years forward and look at control groups of profitability, and we find that notwithstanding the fact that we're doing that, we had 40% higher net income before tax performance in the Premier covered over the control group, and so it's an example and when we say it's working, it's working because we're selling --and a lot of that comes from selling banking products too, it's just loans and other things to accumulate more balances -- and so the strategy is working in that we're satisfying more client needs and even though we're incurring short-term costs, we're increasing long term profitability which is what we're all about.  

The other thing you should look at, I think it is in the Appendix, is when we do that, we're also selling the money-market mutual funds and for the first time in our information, we've given you kind of the combined national numbers and our franchise numbers on the combined deposits in the money-market mutual fund category and you'll see relatively good growth there as well. So the Premier segment is a huge opportunity and it's a win story it in that we're satisfying the client need and still making more money for the shareholder over the long run and what was --  

NANCY BUSH: Min-pay.  

AL DE MOLINA: Oh, min-pay. Okay, min-pay was reserved for last year and there's really no change in estimate or anything else. The charge-offs as we estimate them occurred this quarter so we released the corresponding reserve. And we just didn't provide for the charge off.  

NANCY BUSH: Okay so it's a contemporaneous action. It's not prospective or ...  

AL DE MOLINA: Correct.  

NANCY BUSH: Okay just back to Premier, one quick other question on that. Is the infrastructure build out there pretty much finished or are you still hiring people or moving people or what's going on?  

AL DE MOLINA: I think we're in the early, early stages. I think the numbers, the last numbers I saw was that we had 800,000 migrated customers and about 8 million that are eligible. So we're at the early, early stages and the question is: How do we grow fast enough? It's not do we grow. It's -- the thing that's always going around our table is: Is there anything we can do to grow it faster and still keep the quality and control that we want to as a Company and consistent with our brand? But it will definitely grow.  

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.  

AL DE MOLINA: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will come from Matthew O'Connor, UBS. Please go ahead.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning.  

AL DE MOLINA: Good morning, Matt.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: The current losses in both commercial and indirect consumer portfolios picked up a little more than I would have expected. Can you just give some color on what's driving this and should we expect a similar increase in 4Q?  

AL DE MOLINA: I'm not going to give you any forward-looking comments on what to expect for 4Q. I will step away and say, and go back to my comments from the prepared remarks. The consumer balance sheet is in great shape as a whole. If you look at Federal Reserve information on flow of funds and what consumer balance sheets look like, they're in terrific shape. Even in the places where people were concerned about mortgage borrowing and so forth.  

The loan to value ratio for the nation was 42% several years ago and is 44% now, so there's not been a lot of additional leverage that's been consistent with value increases and so the consumer balance sheet is in great shape. The question is: Within that group, there are different income quintiles and they have different profiles as to what's happened with their balance sheet so it's customer selection and the type of person that might borrow indirect in auto might look a little different than somebody that might borrow in the private bank, and so you're going to have different trends there and you just have to kind of get your own estimate around where you think losses will go for those portfolios. I'm not going to give you that but I will tell you that as a whole, the consumer is in very good shape.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, on the commercial side? I mean they are small dollars, but you kind of got to that "normal" level in one quarter? Yes.  

AL DE MOLINA: I think that they are small dollars. The portfolio, what we've done in that space kind of compared to prior cycles is that we've reduced the concentration risk dramatically and so we would expect the [tall tree], it's still there, there's some, but it's in committment form more than on balance sheet but if you think about the large corporate book that for the companies that equal Bank of America today in the year 2000 it was 130 billion and today it's 35 billion is a significant reduction in outstandings. You still have commitments and you still have some tall tree risk but that's not huge. So that leaves you with all of the commercial growth being in the kind of middle market space and that is a much more actuarial portfolio if you will, much more diversified portfolio than the large corporate, so you would expect to be able to see that coming and it will look like what's happening in the economy.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: So the increase in losses this quarter would have just been a little bit of broad base in duration?  

AL DE MOLINA: Right.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, and then just a follow up on the min-pay. I think you used 150 million of of the 400 million of reserves that you had set aside. Will we see the remaining 250 in Q4? Or do you have a sense of how long it plays out? Or is it all done basically?  

AL DE MOLINA: I think Kevin is flashing up that it was 200 million, not 400 million that was initially set aside.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: I think MBNA said wasn't there 200 million on each side?  

AL DE MOLINA: I'd have to go back. We'll get back with you on that.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you.  

AL DE MOLINA: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] We'll move next to Jefferson Harralson, KBW. Please go ahead.  

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: [indiscernible]--the ubiquitous M & A questions. You may have the deposit cap so maybe the depository is to think about anymore and also your appetite for asset managers?  

AL DE MOLINA: With regard to the deposit cap question, remember the Federal Reserve is the one that calculates that, not the FDIC, so I haven't gone back and looked to see where we stand under the Federal Reserve calculation and from that you can probably read into the fact that we're not looking at anything because I probably would have done that if we were looking at something, right? So I would say that kind of there's no imperative to do anything to our franchise but if an opportunity came along that was shareholder friendly, we obviously would pursue it and to the extent that we had more room under the deposit cap, I guess that increases the attractiveness of an action like that but there's no need and no current plans on that front.  

So with regard to our appetite for asset managers? There's a school of thought that thinks why would you have a 20 PE business wrapped in a 11 PE wrapper so why would you have asset managers and our response to that is because we can turn the E-part of that to a much more or a much faster growth profile because of the interactions within and between the businesses so we could use the strength of the franchise to grow the asset management base faster than we could otherwise but that also says appetite for asset managers will only be driven by really good arithmetic. If there's something that's got value that we think we can extract value out of it, then perhaps we would pursue it but we wouldn't do an expensive one.  

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Great. Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We have no further questions from the telephone lines at this time.  

AL DE MOLINA: Ron?  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: We'll trade, okay. Just wondering if you have any comment on Investment Banking and sales and trading revenue? They were both down from the prior quarter and flattish with a year ago. Were you happy with those results and how is your pipeline and what kind of further buildout do you have in that regard ?  

AL DE MOLINA: Oh, okay. First of all, on pipeline, pipeline going into the fourth quarter is very good, so that's that. With regard to our expectations, vis-a-vis second quarter, perhaps we came in a little bit better than we thought at the end of the second quarter so we met expectations or exceeded. With respect to the comparison to last year, I have a theory. This is not fact. This is theory but I think the last year's third quarter was a tough comparable because people had such bad second quarters that they decided to come to work during the summer and so last year's third quarter, fourth/third quarters, was very good and so the comparable is a little bit difficult so net-net, we're very happy with the investment, how it's working out. We're happy with the quarterly results. We're happy with the annual results. We're happy with the risk reward.  

With regard to pipelines further out in the fourth quarter, I really can't say. We've been thinking that Investment Banking and Capital Markets would slow down for a period and it hasn't yet done so, so we don't know. [indiscernible] But there's a lot of things that we can do, opportunities for growth there where we are undersized and have all of the competitive reasons to be successful in certain areas. As a for instance, international secondary, and I differentiate secondary from primary. On the primary side, the risk of adverse selection by trying to go de novo overseas in Investment Banking is very acute and we do that cautiously but on the secondary side, investors -- we see that in our buildout in the U.S.-- investors want to do business with Bank of America. It's a large capital base. It's a double A, and it's relatively unused so they don't have a lot of exposure to them so from a diversification standpoint, investors overseas want to do business with us, so we have the liquidity, we have the capabilities.  

We now have the management and we will extend, we will finish what we need to do in the U.S. which we're getting closer, and then we'll expand overseas in the secondary side as well and there's huge opportunity. In fact a lot of the times when you look at the comparables to other institutions and if you are able to get at the U.S. versus the international piece you'd see that our out performance is much stronger in the U.S. than it is in total. Because a lot of people are getting significant growth out of the international markets there. Yes, sir?  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: In terms of credit card operations, I know you had a disproportionate increase of net income, the question I have here is in terms of cost cutting, tightening, in terms of the expenses, you know, to what degree are we looking at the expenses, expense category from a strategic standpoint? The other thing is in terms of the provision. Have you instituted any changes in the provision for losses in that area and, you know, whether that may have been affected in terms of just what's happening there.  

AL DE MOLINA: On the provisioning, no, no change at all in what we do there. With regard to the expense base, you'll see as I said in my prepared remarks, we have already met our targets for this year to the first three quarters so obviously it's going to be better than we said but we haven't given you a number and that was intentional so we're not going to give you another one. We're not going to give you a number on where we're going to be next year.  

I would say from a strategic perspective in addition to the kind of cuts as a part of an acquisition, we'll look hard at as I mentioned a little bit ago, we'll look hard at some of the direct marketing expenses. We have such a unique advantage between the online space and the branch network for distribution at a much, much lower cost that if you look at it kind of structurally what might change in that business expense wise, it might be we spent a good bit of money on direct marketing every year. A lot of that is to generate present value positive accounts , but with teaser rates and so forth and so I think we can probably do that much better than most through our traditional channels and that I'd expect to continue.  

That's it? Well, thank you, everybody. Appreciate it and we'll see you next quarter.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020061102e2aj000ul
  


 HD
 Q2  2006  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
11,444 words
   PD
19 July 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions).  

KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt, Bank of America Investor Relations. Before Al de Molina, our Chief Financial Officer, begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial condition, results and expectations in that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures in the financial services industry or legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses. And for additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. With that, let me turn the meeting over to Al.  

   TD
AL DE MOLINA, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA: Thanks, Kevin. Good morning, and welcome to our quarterly earnings discussion. I will start with a quick overview of the corporate results followed by highlights associated with our various businesses.  

While the GAAP results have been fully distributed and discussed in the press release, I will focus my discussion this morning on pro forma results, which I think are more important in understanding our earnings in the past and our prospects for the future. I will finish with a discussion on net interest income and capital before opening it up to Q&A.  

The quarter clearly met our expectations and was characterized by solid customer activity across our businesses and a continued benign credit environment. These positives overcame the negative impact from a flat yield curve, higher deposit pricing and a change in the tax law.  

If you'd follow on Slide 4. Earnings before merger charges were $5.6 billion, up 4% from pro forma earnings in the second quarter of last year. The increase was driven by 6% revenue growth and 4% operating leverage. Earnings before merger charges were $1.22 per diluted share, also up 4%. On a cash basis, that is excluding the impact of intangible amortization, earnings were $1.25. There is a reason I make this distinction. We primarily cash earnings should be a primary concern since this is the measure that affects regulatory capital and true capital generation. On a more practical level, cash earnings is what we expect to use for dividend policy and overall capital management, that is in our view a more appropriate tool. We use reported earnings here and not operating but because while merger charges do not affect ongoing operations, they are a use of capital in the short run.  

So again, clearly, second-quarter results were terrific and reflect better operating momentum than we had envisioned just six months ago.  

Slide 5 in your package summarizes the Corporation's results by business segment. We experienced very strong growth from last year in consumer and small business, along with wealth and investment management, offset by a decline in securities gains and FAS 133 restatement impact. While GCIB was flat year-to-year, there are very positive and important developments I priority areas of this business that I will discuss with you in a moment.  

After you analyze the performance of our businesses, I think you will agree the most striking thing is the quality of both the earnings and of the earnings growth. Underlying earning trends were stronger than the 4% indicates as you take into account last year's earnings included approximately $900 million in pretax items related to securities gains and the FAS 133 restatement.  

Also distorting the comparisons was $175 million tax charge this quarter or $0.04 per share, reflecting a change in tax legislation relating to the treatment of foreign sales corporations. This tax change affected transactions for Bank of America dating back to 1990 and was in fact economically retroactive, a highly unusual circumstance in the tax regime in the U.S.  

Let me turn to the businesses now and the drivers of the quarter's results.  

On Slide 6, we have the consumer and small business segment. It earned $3.1 billion or 57% of the Corporation's second-quarter earnings. These results were up 42% or $920 million from a year ago, driven by good growth in core deposits, which offset a drop in ALM profits resulting from the current interest rate environment.  

GCSB is comprised of primarily four businesses, deposits, card services, mortgage and home equity. Slide 7 shows the deposits business, which earned $1.3 billion, up 27% on a pro forma basis from a year ago, driven by revenue growth of 15% and expense growth of only 5%.  

Average deposit levels in the second quarter were flat with the year ago as we focused on balancing market share and profitability. If you add back the deposits that were migrated to GWIM since last year, deposit growth was still a modest 4%.  

With recent pricing adjustments and the reintroduction of certain products, we are seeing deposit growth in line with the market now. But even with flat deposit growth from last year, net interest income rose 18%, excluding the ALM impact from a year ago, reflecting the fact that deposits, as we always say, are worth so much more in a rising rate environment.  

Slide 8, driving the growth in net interest income were increased levels of checking balances and spreads on money market savings, which rebounded to a more normal level after long periods of low, short-term rates and depressed spreads. Also, we're seeing significant inflows into Columbia money funds and I'll speak to that when I talk about the GWIM business results.  

Service charges rose 8% from a year ago due to higher levels of customer accounts. In the second quarter, net new retail checking accounts, including all franchise sales, were a record 701,000 versus 603,000 in the first quarter and 629,000 in the second quarter a year ago. Net new savings accounts in the quarter were 392,000. This growth slowed down from both the first quarter and a year ago due to a slight increase in regular savings accounts closures as we saw some people move for higher yields and other products but still had net new growth of almost 400,000 accounts. Convenience, customer service and innovative products like "Keep the Change" continue to attract new customers.  

Debit purchase volumes increased 22% from last year, driven by new checking account volume, increased penetration, higher usage levels and a higher average ticket size. As a result, debit card revenue is up 20% from last year. Our debit card business maintains its number one market share position, which we estimate is about 16%, almost double that of the closest competitor. Active online banking customers are just short of 20 million, with approximately half paying their bills online, far exceeding any competitor. Annualized growth in online bill pay customers continues to be in excess of 10%.  

As you can see from these statistics, we are extraordinarily well-positioned for the future, given our large shares in online and bill pay and in debit. These are critically important products for the future. And it should be evident from our performance that we're not sacrificing profitability for the sake of market share.  

Turning to Slide 9, we'll look at our next business, card services, where revenue growth of 7% on a managed basis from a year ago and 26% lower losses helped to more than double net income to $1.6 billion. In addition, noninterest expense declined 14% or $307 million, reflecting 275 million of expense saves associated with the MBNA integration. Part of that benefits this business directly.  

A lower loss outlook compared with the first quarter was a contributing factor in the write-up of servicing income by $102 million. Total average managed card receivables grew 5% from a year ago and are down slightly from first-quarter levels. New account growth in card services was 3.3 million in the quarter, up 4% from the first quarter but down 15% from the second quarter of last year, due mainly to lower mail solicitations. Card sales efforts continue to shift to lower cost delivery channels, including banking centers and e-commerce and away from direct mail.  

Direct mail as a percent of card sales has decreased from 30% a year ago to 23% this quarter. Purchase volumes in card services were up 10% from last year. Managed card services loss rates were 3.59% versus 5.2% a year ago.  

Loss rates in the first quarter were 3.35% after you adjust for the impact of SOP 03-3 that we detailed for you in the 10-Q.  

The trend back to more normal loss levels after bankruptcy reform is progressing much slower than we or anyone else originally anticipated. The key longer-term question is what the definition of normal will be.  

A few comments on the MBNA transition before turning to home equity. Cost saves in this quarter were $275 million, as I said. The original target for all of 2006 was 425 million after-tax or 625 pretax, which we'll handily exceed. By the end of the month, we'll have the Affinity cards launched in all stores. During the second quarter, we completed several internal integration projects, including transitioning the general ledger and financial reporting suite to the new Bank of America target environment. On June 30th, the Bank of America Rewards American Express card became available online. Legacy MBNA customers in the U.S. are now seeing both MBNA and Bank of America brands on statements, letters, card carriers and access checks. Beginning July 1st, new cards issued are Bank of America branded. All in all, the transition continues to meet or exceed expectations.  

Again, we are obviously pleased with the current financial performance in card services but are even more excited about the future, given the success of the transition and what we are learning as a result of that process.  

Let me turn to Slide 10 and home equity, where net income increased 18% from a year ago to 128 million, driven by increased balances. Home equity continues to be a major focus for us. We think that we have strong competitive advantage and that the majority, greater than 60%, of home equity lending is originated through the banking centers. Average home equity outstandings in the quarter were up 16% from a year ago and 4% from the first quarter.  

Across all business lines, outstanding home equity credit lines have increased 20% from a year ago and 5% from the first quarter. We have the number one market share in home equity and we intend to continue to grow through sales process improvements and product enhancements. I just want to say a few things about the related mortgage bank area.  

We clearly have identified mortgage as a growth area, given our very weak current market position of approximately 3% and really what you would characterize as minimal profits from that sector, we think we have a much greater capacity to grow there and we will be dealing with that in the next year or two. The production volume was up significantly from the first quarter, in excess, we think -- we don't have all the data yet -- but of the market. We have a lot of work ahead of us to aggressively ramp up the contribution of the mortgage area.  

Another point of note is that we are obtaining more of our own loans on the balance sheet, which mutes production income from a corporate perspective, because we don't nook that origination income until we put it in part of the yield on the asset. Excluded from the four businesses of GCSB, but impacting the overall segment was the negative swing in ALM profits of approximately $200 million due to the flatter yield curve compared to second quarter a year ago.  

Before moving to GCIB, I wanted to say a few words about the mass market small business that is spread across all four businesses of the global consumer and small-business bank. This is a business, as you have heard us talk about lately, as a growth opportunity because we think we are undersized, given our market presence. While we enjoy market share in industry penetration, we rank only fifth in credit, for example. It's a rapidly growing business with 3.5 million customers using both business and consumer products. For the first six months of 2006, our renewed efforts have produced 20% growth in revenues, 2.5 billion for the first six months, 1.26 billion for the second quarter of '06, driven by 16% growth in loans and 10% growth in deposits. While our results already reflect impressive progress, we think we have only begun to leverage the capabilities that we can bring to this important customer group.  

Now Slide 11, moving to the global corporate investment bank. Earnings for the second quarter were 1.7 billion, in line with the second quarter a year ago. GCIB is now composed of primarily three businesses -- business lending, capital markets and advisory and treasury services. Strong growth in capital markets and advisory services, along with treasury services, offset weaknesses in business lending and a decline again in ALM profits. On Slide 12, we'll go through business lending, which includes commercial and large corporate lending, along with commercial real estate, leasing, business banking and dealer financial services, which is automotive.  

This business posted the most challenging earnings comparison because of the fact that last year, we released significant levels of loan loss allowance. Earnings in business lending dropped to 589 million from 790 million a year ago. Revenue increased only 1% from a year ago, as spread compression was more than offset by volume growth in loans and the continuing drive for more fee business. Large corporate spreads have stabilized but at very, very tight levels. Auto spreads in this business have also remained under pressure but these trends are cyclical and we believe they will eventually reverse themselves.  

Credit mitigation had an impact on the comparisons with last year, as their effect went from a positive 96 million in the second quarter of '05 to a negative 37 million in second quarter of '06. Average loans in business lending are up 14% from a year ago and up 2% from the first quarter, due to new business and line utilization. Credit quality remains quite stable with continued improvements in criticized assets, nonperforming assets and very low charge-off levels.  

Notwithstanding the poor comparisons to last year, we feel very good about the strategic position of the commercial businesses. Comparisons should start to swing around quite nicely, given the transitory nature of the reasons for the current negative comparisons. Finally, the investment in capital raising and the increased level of cooperation through our improved client coverage model had success and bodes well for the future.  

Slide 13. Capital markets and advisory services reported earnings of 504 million, in line with the first quarter and up 57% from a year ago, driven by a revenue increase of 39% and positive operating leverage of 12%. We had a record investment banking revenue, up 46% over last year and also above the first quarter. Sales and trading was up 34% from last year. Fixed-income sales and trading was down only 9% from the very strong first quarter. The volatility of the daily P&L and the sales and trading was 62% of the volatility in that area a year ago. This reflects more stable results and the favorable environment combined with the investment initiatives we launched last year, drive to increase customer flow. Volatility did pick up during the quarter as the markets were quite a bit choppier in May and June but results were excellent even through that tougher environment.  

Sales credit for some secondary trading, an internal measure of sales production, increased 10% over second quarter of last year. Average trading related assets were flat with a year ago at 329 billion but increased 5% from first-quarter levels. Obviously, we're seeing good results due to both good market conditions as well as our investment in this business. While we would expect the normal seasonal slowdown in the second and the third quarter, our longer-term prospects for this business are significantly improved. Our domestic concentration is a glass half full story as we have now turned our attention to international organic growth opportunities in those areas where we choose to compete and do so profitably.  

We believe that this business represents a great growth opportunity for us and we're seeing positive traction. This business does have a higher level of return volatility, however. The benefit of our business model from a corporate perspective is that while the business is highly profitable today and can grow nicely, it only represents 9% of the overall corporate results, greatly increasing our ability to absorb that volatility vis-Ãvis the competition.  

Slide 14 shows the third business within GCIB and that is Treasury Services, which reported net income in the quarter of $559 million, up 25% from a year ago and driven by 15% increase in revenue and 11% operating leverage. This business benefits as rates move higher, which increases the profitability of its deposit base, which in turn overcomes the decline in ALM profitability at the segment level.  

As quarter business lending, we're very pleased with our positioning in the commercial customer segment, which that positioning should drive significant growth. Also though, we see investment opportunities across the business with good potential payback opportunities.  

Slide 15, we turn to our third main segment, global wealth and investment management. Earnings in the quarter were 634 million, up 12% from a year ago, representing 12% of overall corporate earnings. This earnings growth from last year reflected 16% growth in deposit related net interest income, offset by the related decline in ALM results.  

Deposits related net interest income was driven by spread widening and transfers of deposits from GCSB. The three businesses within GWIM include premier banking and investments, the private bank and Columbia Management. All three businesses grew nicely. Premier banking and investments continue to build out both banking and brokerage services for the mass affluent segment. Earnings increased 34% to 254 million from a year ago. Expense levels increased 4% as we continue to build our base of client advisors to interface with premier banking and investment customers.  

On Slide 17, we show the private bank, which earned 195 million in the quarter, up 25% from a year ago, driven by positive operating leverage of 9% in addition to a onetime loss recovery of approximately $50 million.  

On Slide 18, you have Columbia Management, that's the third business segment within GWIM and it earned $81 million in the second quarter, up 29% from a year ago on higher revenue of 15% and 6% operating leverage. Substantially all of the revenue growth was due to higher asset management fees driven by increased levels of assets under management. Total GWIM assets under management increased 13% from a year ago, reaching $500 billion, a milestone.  

This increase of 57 billion was driven by net asset inflows of approximately 42 billion in both short-term and long-term assets in addition to improved market valuation of more than 15 billion. This past quarter, a remarkable 86% of all AUM in funds -- were invested in funds with performance above the median. While GWIM assets under management increased $6 billion versus the first quarter, reflecting net inflows of 11 billion from short-term assets in equities, offset by lower market valuation, Columbia continues increased brand recognition and relative returns, which in turn drives the growth in assets under management as we all know. We believe that the growth prospects for GWIM overall are quite good.  

In Columbia, continued investment performance is fundamental and will lead to the ability to cross-sell into our under penetrated customer base, allowing for growth considerably above its industry peers. In premier banking and investments and private banking, we have good prospects for growth in traditional banking products due to our franchise. Also in the premier customer segment, we have an exciting opportunity to grow our fee-based brokerage products. The key here is how quickly we can effectively grow our base of roughly 4,000 client managers and financial advisers.  

On Slide 21, in addition to our main businesses, there's the equity investments group, which we report in other and includes principal investing. Equity investment gains across the corporation were 646 million during the second quarter, in line with the first quarter. Principal investing represented $417 million of that number. In addition, we had a gain of $36 million associated with the MasterCard IPO.  

Our eventual gain in this transaction is estimated to be approximately $150 million. But you should know that a big piece will go through goodwill as an adjustment to the MBNA purchase price. So while not generating earnings, the gain will generate capital to be deployed.  

Let me move now out of the individual businesses and discuss some topics from an overall corporate perspective, starting with net interest income.  

Slide 22 shows net interest income on an FTE basis at 8.9 billion, down $114 billion from the first quarter of this year. $82 million of that was core, $32 million was out of the market's business.  

With regard to the core, beyond industry-wide spread compression, we experienced two additional items in our trajectory. First of all, we had higher funding costs related to the step-up in share repurchases and lower impact of purchase accounting adjustments around the MBNA acquisition. Higher funding costs due to the increased share repurchases cost us approximately $50 million or 2 basis points over the prior quarter. On a net basis, we repurchased 103 million shares, 53 million this quarter, for almost $5 billion. This is almost the same net investment we made in the shares of our Company on behalf of our shareholders for the years 2003, 2004 and 2005 combined. The lower impact from purchase accounting adjustments results in a drop of approximately $30 million or a basis point in the margin for the first quarter. And as I mentioned, market related NII was down 32 million.  

Net interest income was also impacted by lower on balance sheet credit card loans combined with higher deposit pricing. While I've continually stated that we're trying to wean the market from short-term guidance, we will always attempt to alert you to known Company-specific issues. For instance, going forward, we expect net interest income to be negatively impacted by the sale of our Brazilian operations, which might close sometime in the third quarter and is expected to contribute approximately $200 million spread across the final five months in net interest income, which now will not be reflected.  

However, much of that decrease will be offset by lower expenses, dividends from the new investment and redeployment of the resources, including capital and balance sheet freed up by the transaction.  

One final note, while we normally wait for the 10-Q to be issued before giving details of our swap positions, we will do it earlier this time, as it is fundamental to the understanding of our balance sheet actions and risks. You will note in the balance sheet the addition of mortgage loans this quarter as part of our ALM activities, those of the loans as opposed to securities. To offset these additions in the short term and to reduce flattening risk, we added over 100 billion in pay fixed positions early in the quarter, as we correctly assume a more hawkish Fed. Those positions are shorter dated, as they reflect our current expectations that the Fed is close to the end of the tightening process. You will note when you review our bubble charts on Slide 23 and compare them to the end of the first quarter that we will reduced our net interest income to rising rates even though rates in these forward scenarios are approximately 50 basis points higher than those at the end of the first quarter. This action impacted our net interest margin by approximately 6 basis points, although it costs us nothing and reduced our net interest income risk in the short term. We have always managed our balance sheet risk actively and we continue to do so.  

Switching to capital on Slide 24. Tier 1 at the end of June was 8.33%, down from 8.45% at the end of the first quarter. As I already said, we repurchased 53 million shares on a net basis in the second quarter or slightly more than 1% of shares outstanding. Combined with dividends, we've returned 100% of earnings to shareholders in the first half of 2006. Given our comments in April about future share repurchases, our Tier 1 ratio was expected to drop and may continue to drop in the second half of the year, given our view of stock valuations. Along with Tier 1 capital, we think financial strength should be measured by earnings power, business model diversity and liquidity. Our liquidity reserve at both the bank and the parent are unmatched in the industry. We have almost two years of surplus liquidity at the parent. At the bank, we have 275 billion in net -- long-term -- liquid assets. Our earnings strength this quarter is bolstered by an ever improving level of efficiency, 46% this quarter versus the mid 50's just several years ago. By my calculation, our business model diversity lowers our cost of capital by about 50 to 60 basis points based on observed and weighted relative data. One aspect of diversity we lag is driven by our large concentration in the United States. This is of course a double-edged sword, as it currently means less potential growth but on the other hand, our focus on sizable market shares in building our businesses makes them much more manageable and controllable and in my view one of the factors in reducing our cost of capital.  

So summing up our costs before Q&A, we are obviously more than pleased with the performance of our businesses through the first half of 2006. This performance is an indication of the health of the economy and the strong momentum of the Company. Although we see economic growth moderating, we don't see that as a bad thing, as it will assist the Fed in concluding its tightening cycle. Credit fundamentals show no meaningful signs of change. Over the past few months, we've announced initiatives to go after opportunities and growth in areas such as premier, small business and the payments area, consumer real estate and capital markets. Results of the past several months show that we're gaining traction on executing those investment priorities. While quarter-to-quarter results will bounce around a touch, what's important is the progress in building on our strategic advantages, which are plentiful and which we'll continue to exploit aggressively.  

With regard to capital management, you should expect us to continue to be an investor in Bank of America stock. One of the competitive advantages that we have is we are one of the top handful of capital generators in the world. We intend to take advantage of that advantage aggressively.  

In short, we're demonstrating obvious financial success but more importantly, we're even more excited about our growth opportunities. With that, let me open it up for questions. And I thank you for your attention.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) (technical difficulty)  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: -- your cost save target for the year and I was wondering if you could expand on that, are you going to exceed the total target, you have any update on what you see as accretion?  

AL DE MOLINA: We're not updating the long-term effect yet. But it's a question of how much we'll exceed, not whether we'll exceed the overall target. But we are not putting a number on that yet. But we will exceed the number both this year and in total.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: So the deal is basically going a lot better than you originally anticipated?  

AL DE MOLINA: I would say absolutely, yes, the deal is going much better, but at the top of my list would not be the cost saves performance. At the top of my list would be all the things that we are learning from the way MBNA did business that we could then employ in our franchise to make a much bigger difference on a broader array of products. And so, absolutely, yes, but -- and if it was just the cost saves, I would be interested, but that's usually what we do. This one is different in that we're learning things that are much more important for the long-term health and franchise on a much broader basis.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Any way OF putting numbers on what you are learning?  

AL DE MOLINA: No, not yet.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: You did make some comments about how you're looking at Fed policy. But I was interested primarily in the current economic environment right now as we see it and are there any concerns that you have right now in terms of let's say consumer confidence, in terms of just maybe perhaps maybe some reverberations in the economy that might have an impact on credit quality?  

AL DE MOLINA: We track that very closely and what I would say to you is that our belief is that we are in the midst of a slowdown of some sort, but not one that is important enough to create issues of credit quality.  

The lion's share of the repricing of -- and this is not for us but for the world at large of arms, really begins to take root late this year and really in '07. So we haven't seen that effect. And as I have been saying now for probably 18 months, the biggest question mark in my mind with regard to the economy was the effect of the mortgage slowdown generally, both through the slowdown in mortgage equity withdrawal and also what happens to those that have ARM products that will reprice up.  

So that's a little bit more deferred. We're tracking it closely. So far we see signs of consumer spending slowdown but they are modest. They should feed right into what the Fed is trying to accomplish and should not --at this point, don't point to any kind of credit crack.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Could you comment on the AOCI line, which is about $11 billion negative? And as you had said last time, the tangible equity ratio was going to drop below 4 and it did. Can you talk to us about how that AOCI line moves forward?  

AL DE MOLINA: I don't always get all my predictions right, but that one I did, you're right; it did. The way we look at tangible capital is that it's a relatively poor measure for financial strength and I think the markets agree with us, is you can look at -- kind of the way our debt trades [we] think while other participants may not say it that same way, I think they generally believe it. I think there are better measures but they're still imperfect like Tier 1 capital. I think in the area of regulatory capital, Tier 1 regulators are trying to make that measure more robust and when we process that through our institution, you'd see even stronger capital levels because of the relatively low risk we have.  

Having said that, we don't ignore the tangible ratio, but we look at the reasons for the decline in the tangible ratio. And to the extent they're OCI related, they're largely ignored and the reason it's largely ignored -- that approximately two-thirds of that negative OCI is actually good news.  

With that negative OCI or two-thirds of it -- and the distinction I'm making is between the negative OCI (indiscernible) by existing positions, mostly in the securities portfolio -- these are these closed positions that will be amortized. The closed positions that will be amortized, that's what it is and enough of that.  

The two-thirds that relates to current positions only means that we're currently in our run rates have an opportunity cost to reinvest at higher levels and because our liability durations are so much longer than our asset durations, all that will happen is those will mature and we'll reinvest at higher levels. So it would be a little bit intellectually perverse to consider the OCI as a constraint intangible when we actually think it is a positive to long-term profitability from the current base.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Having come back from China in the last few days, it's amazing to see the staggering growth that is occurring there. Could you briefly comment on how the CCB investment is going and in particular, is the bank making inroads into issuing credit cards over in that market?  

AL DE MOLINA: Let me say and I'm sure you've heard me talk about this, you've heard this before, I was not involved in the transaction. But I remember every time it came up, our CEO would say this is not an investment for this generation, it's for the next generation because we can't ignore China and the 21st century being their century, probably. So, the investment looks terrific so far but we don't even track that. It's a nice thing but it's really for the long term. With regard to how we are operationalizing the details of the arrangement, which is to provide advice in a number of areas, really starting around governance, it's all working well. And that is important because it kind of builds a foundation of trust for future cooperation. And that is all going well. We have about 60 FTEs, I think allocated, to helping that effort. In addition to that, we're working with them, obviously, trying to do something in the card space. It would be premature of me to comment on that. When we have something there to talk about, Liam McGee or Bruce Hammonds will describe that to you. Obviously, it is all interrelated. The better the governance relationship goes, the more likely you are to be able to do business in a win-win fashion with a very, very powerful partner. Then again, we're very happy with it but it's way -- there's not even one out yet in the first inning; it's very, very early. From the phones please?  

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Credit Suisse.  

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Just a quick question. You mentioned the credit metrics aren't showing any signs of deterioration but I did notice that there was a sizable increase in loans 90 days past due in the quarter. Could you provide a little more detail on that in terms of what portfolios and any type of insight you have?  

AL DE MOLINA: Yet, I think what you're going to see -- that's an increase in 90 days in card fully expected. We have always had slightly worse performance than some of the peers that you would compare us to fewer peers now but I guess smaller peers. Fully expected. We've always had wider margins as well. And so that is not something that we would view as an indicator of a crack in credit. It's really just kind of an expected move that's got stuff in there that relates to min pay and also to the kind of, whatever they call it, maturation of the book, seasoning of the book, I'm sorry. So yes, you're, right, it's there but that has not been interpreted by us as any kind of negative trend in credit.  

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Thank you.  

AL DE MOLINA: Another phone or no --?  

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, Prudential Equity.  

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Can you just run through the one-timers a little bit? I guess you have -- you can validate this -- $175 million cost for tax changes but that is offset by a few things, like MasterCard IPO and right up to servicing income. Can you just detail those more fully?  

AL DE MOLINA: I will, but first I would say, Mike, you weren't the first question this time. I think that is the first time since I have been doing this.  

MIKE MAYO: I will practice my star 1.  

AL DE MOLINA: You were being more pensive this time and thoughtful? Yes, you're right on the one side of the ledger, you've got the $175 million after-tax charge related to the tax change. On the other side, you picked them up. I mean it's MasterCard; it is the write up in the IO, is what it is. In credit card, that's about $100 million. You've got about another 100 in leasing gains in other income and I think that is about it. When you do the math on those things, they virtually offset each other and kind of our numbers are what you see is what you get with regard to the quarter.  

MIKE MAYO: And you mentioned some 50 million onetime loss recovery? Yes, but that would've been reflected at the business unit level but already contemplated in the reserve setting. So the way to look at that is if we release our billed reserves and no, we didn't release our billed reserves.  

MIKE MAYO: I know this is a tougher question, but in terms of how much your credit card loss has benefited from bankruptcy legislation, because if you want to normalize that, I guess you would say make that a little higher. How much higher?  

AL DE MOLINA: I think in my comments I mentioned, that is the question. I wish we knew. It keeps surprising us, fortunately, to the good side of that. My guess is having been around this business for a long time, there will be a time when it surprises us to the other side of that but I really don't have a number for you. I don't know if others have given you that or if any of the industry people have done it. But we're not ready to kind of forecast where things are going to normalize. We do believe that they will normalize at levels lower than they were before. And that is one of those well, we kind of backed the initiative, and so if they normalize at a higher level then we would have been wrong in backing the initiative; and of course we weren't wrong in backing the initiative. So it's kind of logic built into that which is maybe a little bit wrong. But we feel optimistic about normalization at lower levels, but we don't know what those levels will be.  

MIKE MAYO: And you mentioned a flat yield curve took a little bit of a toll and as we sit here now, I guess like the three-month five-year is slightly negative, inverted. So does that hurt you more next quarter or did some of the protection you take during the quarter help you out?  

AL DE MOLINA: Some of the protection will help out a little bit but it's a big balance sheet. And you know, the fact is no one can insulate; no deposit funded institution could fully insulate itself from the effects of a flattening yield curve. So to the extent it flattens further, we would expect some more pressure there. But we've managed through these things a number of times, as you know, and we get through them and the other side feels very, very different. In fact, those two questions that you just asked, Mike, are very linked. The real question for at what level you settle into in terms of earnings growth for the banking industry generally is at what pace does the curve steepen as credit costs increase. And then for Bank of America in specific, how well it does in anticipating that crack in credit and implementing interest rate strategies to offset that. And in the past, we've had a pretty good record of that.  

MIKE MAYO: And the 46% efficiency ratio, it certainly beats your prior target, continues to do so. Is that sustainable and do you have a new target?  

AL DE MOLINA: You know, obviously the quarter was a very strong quarter. There's equity investment gains in it that affects that ratio. There was trading that was at a level which we would expect, as I said, a slowdown in the third quarter. So there are little things like that. But as a general long-term matter, if we manage the Company as we do for business by business positive operating leverage, unless there is a major shift in the components of your business and the make up, you'll drive down efficiency ratios further.  

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: A couple of questions. Brazil, you said, was going to close in the third quarter. I think you had initially or had made some commentary early in the second quarter about it closing in the second quarter. Can you just tell why it got pushed off and whether that affected the pricing at all. And secondly, you had also talked about the possibility of some bond restructurings with that gain. Is that sort of pushed off now or was that still a possibility?  

AL DE MOLINA: Someone, it must have been me must have been speaking in tongues. It was always the third quarter. There's no shift there, nothing to read into it. With regard to what we do in and around that transaction will depend on the facts and circumstances at the time, our positions at the time and whether we think we can add economic value by doing something. We wouldn't do something, Nancy, just to change the line item and manage the accounting results. If it opens the unique opportunity to do something intelligent for our shareholders, we would do it but we will have to evaluate that at that time.  

NANCY BUSH: Secondly, on the assertion that Bank of America is one of the most liquid banks, I think we have certainly heard that before. Can you just give us a definition of liquidity and so we can actually test that assertion versus some other banks?  

AL DE MOLINA: What I would point you to, Nancy, is for the parent company, which is the one that is more difficult. Just go to the Moody's study on bank holding company liquidity. And they lay it out right there for you in a very simple term and done by someone that is independent. They also do some work with the bank so you can look at that. But if you want to then tie into our definition, what we will do is through the investor relations folks, we'll show you exactly our definition. But what it does in essence, it takes all the liquid assets and liabilities, nets them altogether and comes out with a net position. So we would consider one to four-family residential mortgages as a liquid asset, so that might be where there is a disconnect.  

But we will give you an exact calculation and we'll publish it for people. But if you want the independent view, and by the way, the independent view makes the same assertion at the bank level, you just won't be able to tie it to the -- the actual number today is 272,900,000,000 or something like that. But we can give you the exact calculation but if you go to the Moody's study on liquidity, you'll see that story laid out there for you by someone independent.  

OPERATOR: Andrew Collins, Piper Jaffray.  

ANDREW COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good morning, congratulations on a good quarter.  

AL DE MOLINA: Thanks, Andy. I wish I had something to do with it.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Just on deposit spreads, you guys brought that out and disclosed it this quarter. It looked like it was up here this quarter quite nicely at a 3%. And relative to your competitors, I mean your noninterest checking growth is still there; you have still got good containment on costs on interest-bearing deposits. Is there any way you can explain what's going on there relative to your competition? I mean, what's going on?  

AL DE MOLINA: I don't spend a lot of time studying the competition the way I used to but I can tell you what's going on in our book and kind of the thrust of what we're trying to do. And what's going on in our book is the widening of spreads that you would have anticipated when the Fed changed direction. And the reason of the magnitude of that spread widening is very much related to the magnitude of the OCI change as we were at a very, very long period of low rates with very suppressed margins.  

If you go through the categories that we reflect for you in the table and go to the noninterest checking, as long as rates continue where they are and move higher, there will be continued spread expansion there, which actually mirrors the reinvestment of maturing OCI transactions at higher levels. So you'll see that moving up. I believe savings will probably be relatively stabilized and/or move up a touch from here. MMBA will be stabilized. What you had there was we used to price 250 basis points below Donahue and then when rates went to nothing, you couldn't do that any more. And so we had zero or negative spreads and what you've had is that has widened back to kind of traditional levels and then we have to see where competitive forces take us from there. So those are the pieces of ours and the direction that we would follow -- and CDs should stay about where they are.  

With regard to the mix and the thrust, again, go back to those incredible positions in debit, in online banking, in online bill pay, and it's very obvious that we have aggressively pursued and taken at very, very -- in a significant high ground position in the area of payments for consumers. And so where you would see the thrust of that, if it's going to come out in balance form, you're going to see it in the interest checking and non-interest checking components of our liability base. And so that's the way I would look at our company going forward. And then you'd have to compare it to other people and their strategies to determine what they're doing.  

One strategy might be to pay significant rates on CDs. That's great to generate notional amounts of CDs but I don't know that you make any money on it. We are focused on meeting client needs firstly with a very, very convenient network, very easy to use tools and great service and do it in a very profitable way.  

ANDREW COLLINS: We've also seen net checking account growth start to accelerate and is there a particular geography or customer set that is really driving that acceleration?  

AL DE MOLINA: Acceleration is kind of tough from the level that we are now. I think you'll see continued success. At some point, you probably see deceleration but then you see consolidation of balances. So net checking account numbers, I don't know, I would have to talk to Liam to see how long he thinks that's in an upward trajectory. But I think kind of logically and intuitively, I would think that that levels off at some point and you get into kind of deposit aggregation of those relationships at that level.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Okay. Just an unrelated question on repurchase activity. You've certainly stressed that a lot today. Can you weight that against your dividend policy going forward?  

AL DE MOLINA: That's always interesting. I think we could have a long conversation about that. I have had it with many. But net net, what's important is where we are and where we are is I wouldn't expect any change of a radical nature in our dividend policy. We will declare one in July. It will be of a comparable mix that it was in the past. Do count cash earnings, not regular diluted earnings when you view that and project what we might do. But no change in policy or direction on that. But lots of interesting intellectual debate, internally, externally, that leaves you with the conclusion that we're doing the right thing by having a balance of dividend, dividend growth and buybacks where it is appropriate.  

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Al, a couple of quick questions. One is on the MBNA outlook you indicated as going very well and looked like it was online to meet your expectations. Why not change your expectations if it's doing so well at this stage?  

AL DE MOLINA: You know, there's a lot of, as I mentioned to you, we are trying to wean people off of short-term expectations and short-term guidance. In fact, if you think about what I described as the capital generating machine and the incredibly strong position we're dealing from, we may choose to use that competitive advantage to do something different -- to change pricing, to become more customer family in a product that makes it a higher grower in the long run. And we unfortunately in the capital markets in the United States today, we do have to worry about where people set their consensus numbers and we don't want that to get ahead of where we want to be for managing our Company for the long term and we may spend money in order to do those things along the way. And if we give you a number, it immediately goes into a one side unless I could perfectly detail the other side, and we're not ready to perfectly detail the other side, so we will inform you kind of as we go. I hope that wasn't too convoluted an answer, but if it was, it was my answer.  

BETSY GRASECK: No, I got your point. Two other small questions. One is on credit products in the GCIB trading line. I guess I was a little surprised to see the trading number come down as much as it did Q on Q. And could you just indicate if there was anything in particular going on there?  

AL DE MOLINA: I hardly heard your -- you asked me --?  

BETSY GRASECK: Credit products and sales and trading on your GCIB.  

AL DE MOLINA: Right. I think that's where you saw a lot of the rockiness in the quarter with regard to our businesses and that is where you see they drifted up a little bit in the [VOL] and they had lower results as well. But compare it -- I don't know how many of you remember this, but at the end of the year call, someone asked me why I was as confident about the results for trading. I said I'm not comfortable with the results for trading because I don't know what the market is going to do. But I feel much better that the team we have in place now will do as well or better in the marketplace and there's one bit of evidence. A disruption of the size we had this year last year with regard to our positions had much, much worse results. I think they had some choppiness; they managed through it well. They had less opportunity to do market-making business and they did what they could with it and we're happy with it.  

BETSY GRASECK: And when you were talking about -- you said when you were talking a little bit about the international side, what portion of the revenues today and earnings today is coming from the international front? Where do you anticipate taking that?  

AL DE MOLINA: I can't tell you what the net is but on a revenue basis, if you look at that -- annualize that 2 billion that we've had per quarter so make it -- and you have got some slowdown, so pick your number for the year and call a billion of it at the max offshore generated.  

BETSY GRASECK: Your expectations for where you want to be taking that over time?  

AL DE MOLINA: As far as we can take it profitably with regard to kind of balancing risk reward on behalf of the shareholders. I think there are places where we can go where we can do very, very well and then there are places where --and even in those places where we will be capped out by not being full service and so be it because full service may take us down a path that we don't want to be. So we're going to be very careful. We're going to choose where we can compete and where we can win in a way that doesn't take us into places that we don't want to go. So with that, having all that, I can't give you a proportion; it's just going to take time and it's going to be sequential and I guess just kind of watch and we will report as we go.  

OPERATOR: Lori Appelbaum, Goldman Sachs.  

LORI APPELBAUM, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: You and [Bernaki] are making my day today. I just wanted to say that.  

AL DE MOLINA: What is he saying by the way?  

LORI APPELBAUM: He's handing out applause.  

AL DE MOLINA: Good.  

LORI APPELBAUM: Al, you mentioned that --  

AL DE MOLINA: I don't really feel like talking to you now but ask your question. I want to go run to my Bloomberg.  

LORI APPELBAUM: I'll give you some quotes if I want them. Anyway. Although, you mentioned that a continued tough yield curve is challenging to net interest income but as Bernaki is sort of hinting that the Fed may be done, if a tough curve comes with the end of the tightening cycle, is that a mitigating factor, as you mentioned that all these ARMs are going to be repricing.  

AL DE MOLINA: Unfortunately, you broke up a little bit towards the end of that. Can you try that again, Lori?  

LORI APPELBAUM: My point is that you mentioned that a tight curve is a challenge to net interest income. If that comes commensurate with the end of the tightening cycle, is that a mitigating factor to your net interest income outlook because you mentioned that you have got all these ARMs repricing starting later this year into next year.  

AL DE MOLINA: Which repricing was that, do you know? ARMs -- no, no, that's not us. I'm sorry, I thought I made it clear, when I talked about ARMs, I was talking about the industry issue of ARMs repricing and having the effect on consumers; that's not us. That's why I disconnected from your question.  

I think when the Fed hits the end of the -- of its cycle, then it is a question of how credit deteriorates, vis-Ãvis how the curve steepens out and revenues change sources, if you will, or profitability changes sources. If you followed the transaction that we did in this quarter, was reflective of exactly so far where we think things are going. We thought the Fed might get more hawkish, that the curve wouldn't react on the long-term, very, very negatively. So we added some longer duration assets and many, many more short duration swaps to offset the more hawkish Fed. Now and we made them short dated so if the more hawkish Fed kind of dissipates, then we've got the assets but not the hedge. So that's all consistently where we thought things were going but that could change yet again.  

BETSY GRASECK: So then the net interest income outlook, if the Fed is done, is what?  

AL DE MOLINA: You have got the worse line so far, Lori. I'm not trying to be evasive I'm really not -- if the Fed is done, what is net interest income outlook?  

It's where it is now until the Fed changes directions, all right? A steepening of the curve, if that were to occur, with the long end up, takes a long time to work itself into profitability. The next step change that you would see in net interest income growth would be the Fed changing directions not pausing. So you'd stop seeing margin compression from those sources, but you wouldn't see a boost until the Fed changed directions. You would expect that when that Fed changed directions it would be doing it in response to something so you would be at that point in the credit cycle where credit costs would start going up. And it's really a question of how those two play off each other and in timing and in pace. And as I mentioned, that's one of the things that we have done quite well in the last two or three cycles and we will continue to try and do as well with it.  

OPERATOR: Matthew O'Connor, UBS.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: Two questions here. First on credit card. Period-end receivables were up nicely but when we look on an average, they were kind of flattish. And I was just wondering if you could give us some color on volumes during the quarter and your expectations going forward?  

AL DE MOLINA: I would have to go back and look at -- to see the degree of this. I think it's largely seasonal. That's not anything that really has come up as a major issue for us. And so you do have higher across the board payment rates that we are seeing kind of across the industry and that could have had an affect on the quarter and may have an effect in the next quarter to take those period-end levels down some. But so far we think it's seasonal and have no further explanation for it.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, so in terms of as you think of growth rates here for the next few quarters?  

AL DE MOLINA: We would expect growth from that going forward. You also have, as you make longer-term comparisons, think about the efficacy and quickness of the channel choices we're making with regard to distribution, how quickly you'll generate receivables from a direct-mail, the most expensive and widely used in the past, to kind of the e-channel and the branch network. And depending on that, we know that they are much cheaper, we don't know that they're faster. And Bruce Hammonds and Liam McGee make those choices every day. And I guess we'll report back when we see the success or lack thereof next quarter.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Separately, to follow up on your mortgage comment about focusing on it the next couple of years, can you just elaborate a little bit on how you expect to pick up market share here and how do you balance organic growth and potential acquisitions in this area?  

AL DE MOLINA: No and yes. I don't want to give you details on what we do because we don't have them flushed out. And as we do that, we will tell you about it and show you what the rewards from it were. But yes with regard to our comment on whether organic or acquisition. And I would say less unless something changes dramatically, we are talking about doing it organically not through acquisition.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay and still no change to not having any desires to non prime or sub prime?  

AL DE MOLINA: No, I think we are -- we exited the sub prime business a long, long time ago. The sub prime business ran -- became a better business model, be it the participants that were in that business since then. All during that point, it was not an opportune time in our view to enter it because of where the economy was vis-Ãvis that group. But there could be a time where the industry is I don't know want to use cleaned up enough, but the practices there are cleaned up enough and the point in the cycle is a more interesting entry point and we could in fact be in sub prime. So I don't want to count that out at all.  

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, but that's not where we are at right now, if I hear you correctly?  

AL DE MOLINA: That's not where we are right this second but that could change anytime. In other words, there's nothing wrong with providing capital to people that need it. The issues back that we had in the last cycle where the practices in that business were not consistent with our brand, meaning a lot of the collection practices and things like that and pricing practices and so we chose not to participate there but there is something quite noble about providing capital to people that need it and so I don't want to count that out.  

OPERATOR: James Mitchell, Buckingham Research.  

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Two quick questions on credit card -- credit quality. Can you give any color or quantify the impact of minimum payments that you have seen so far? And the second question is, can you give sort of a sense of loss rate trends through the quarter, I guess sort of month-by-month as it started to stabilize at the end of the quarter, as we kind of saw with master trust data.  

AL DE MOLINA: I'm not going to give you the monthly numbers. I don't want to set that precedent. But as I said earlier -- and I don't have them at the ready as well. But as I mentioned to you or the group when we were talking about the 90-day delinquency increase, it's not unexpected. It's within what our underwriting parameters and expectations were and our pricing and profitability expectations were. So there's nothing there that alarms us in any way. And going forward, any prediction, you'll just have to see where they go. So I'm sorry I can't be very helpful.  

JAMES MITCHELL: Well in terms of just did you see any stabilization towards the end of the quarter or was it sort of normalization throughout the quarter, or you can't even give that color?  

AL DE MOLINA: I'd prefer not to and like I said, I don't even have it at the ready, so.  

JAMES MITCHELL: Any impact for minimum payments?  

AL DE MOLINA: Minimum payments is an interesting one for me because my brain always goes into a loop when we discuss it because to me, I start with the premise that every minimum pay loss was a loss any way because if somebody goes under because you increased their payment by whatever the number is when they've got seven cards in their pocket and they could always go revolve them, it's a loss that was ready to happen. And so, I don't know that I could say in good conscience what I think the min pay piece is versus what it isn't now. I think that there's clearly a force in the marketplace now that's bringing down levels of card because of the generalized min pay question. So if you look at the min pay question with regard to levels of credit card outstandings, I think there is clearly -- we don't understand the size of it, but there's clearly an industry-wide headwind there because you have to pay more. But with regard to credit losses, I wouldn't say how much of it is min pay and how much of it is non min pay. One more from the line?  

OPERATOR: John Pandtle, Raymond James.  

JOHN PANDTLE, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Thank you and good morning. The question relates to the amount of cash flow that you're seeing from your securities portfolio, either on a monthly or quarterly basis and then thinking about how you reinvest that in terms of mix between securities and loans, looking toward the I guess relationship between loan and earning asset growth going forward?  

AL DE MOLINA: You saw the action that I describe in whole loan in swaps is consistent with the action plan that we have going forward and is just timing one leg versus another. And that plan going forward is to greatly deemphasize the level that we have in securities, offsetting that with increases in residential loans to the extent that we need them to balance the risk posture that was previously balanced through securities. So a significant downward pressure on securities as they mature or as they can be liquidated, reinvested in residential mortgages.  

The other part of the plan that we have with regard to changing the way we do our asset liability management is that -- and this kind of fits into that as we used to do it kind of very optimally but had a lot of noise around it because we do big transactions. There are a lot of different ways to manage the risks in the convexity risks in mortgages and we'll probably design strategies that capture 95% of the benefit we were capturing before but have 5% of the noise that it had before because we'd generate gains and people didn't understand. And there are ways where we could do that a little bit more -- in a little bit more investor friendly way and we will try and do that. But we won't want to give up too much value because that's not investor friendly either.  

With that, thanks, everybody.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060802e27j0012x
  


 HD
 Q1  2006  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,771 words
   PD
20 April 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORP.: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt, Bank of America Investor Relations Executive. Before Al de Molina, our Chief Financial Officer, begins his comments, let me reminded of this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial condition, results and expectations and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures in the financial services industry for legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses. And for additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. And with that, let me turn the meeting over to Al.  

   TD
AL DE MOLINA, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORP.: Thanks, Kevin. Good morning and thank you for joining our quarterly earnings review. By now, most of you have analyzed numerous earnings reports and are well aware of the macro trends affecting the industry this quarter. Today, I want to spend most of my time in delving into the results of our various business segments and identifying key drivers of performance during the quarter.  

Before addressing these drivers, let me highlight a few items from a corporate perspective. Reported earnings for the first quarter were $1.08 per diluted share, ex (indiscernible) charges, or $5 billion, down $0.01 from a year ago. Excluding intangible amortization, earnings were $1.14 a share, up a couple of percent from last year.  

Earnings a year ago benefited from higher securities gains and lower provisions, a $1.3 billion pretax total, or about $0.21. These earnings were replaced by good business momentum. Remember in March, we restated earnings for the past several years related to changes in how we account for certain derivative transactions under FAS 133. As we disclosed at the time of the restatement and in our 10-K during the first quarter, we terminated certain derivative used as economic hedges as part of the ALM process that did not qualify for FAS 133 hedge accounting. First quarter revenue was reduced by 175 million, or about $0.02 a share from losses related to those derivatives. At this point, all the necessary adjustments related to the restatement have now been made.  

During the quarter, we adopted FAS 123R, which addresses accounting for stock-based employee compensation. This adoption resulted in incremental compensation expense of $320 million pretax for a reduction of earnings of about $0.05 a share. In the past, this expense would've been spread over several years, but annual grants will now be realized in the first quarter of every year for retirement eligible employees.  

We closed the acquisition of MBNA on January 1, so their results are included for the entire quarter. To help you with your analysis, we issued an 8-K last week that provided pro forma results for 2004 and 2005 by quarter, including MBNA in each of the quarters. We also included in the 8-K restated segment and business results that correspond to how our businesses are managed. Almost all of my comparisons today will be with the result of the first quarter of a year ago on a pro forma basis.  

One final comment. It should be obvious to all that we are quite pleased with the results this quarter. Total corporate revenue on an FTE basis increased 10% with 5% operating leverage before merger and restructuring charges. This quarter was one of balance and positive financial performance and momentum. As you drill down into the segments, you will see traction in most of our businesses and products. However, there is still lots of work to do to maximize the value of our franchise. As the management team, we see our charge as making the value of the overall company exceed the value of its component parts and our work is clearly not complete.  

Let me turn to the businesses now and discuss the various drivers that were evident during the quarter, after which I will add some further color on combined results.  

Global Consumer and Small Business Banking earned $2.7 billion, or 54% of the Corporation's first quarter earnings, up 11% on a pro forma basis from a year ago with an ROE of 17%. Remember now that we are allocating all goodwill to segments which will skew ROE comparisons with various competitors. The Global Consumer and Small Business segment is composed of four subsegments -- deposits, card services, mortgage and home equity. First, in deposits. The business earned $1.1 billion in the quarter, up 11% from last year. Average total deposits were up 1%. However, in order to get a full picture, you should add back the deposits that were migrated over the Premiere segment, which would then give you deposit growth of approximately 4%.  

In the second half of '05, our deposit growth was dampened as we focused on balancing market share and profitability and we continue that focus. With recent pricing adjustments and the reintroduction of certain products, we expect to see a rebound in the growth trajectories more in line with market growth. But even with moderate deposit growth, net interest income grew 17% from a year ago, reflecting the fact that deposits are worth much more in a rising rate environment. The drivers of that growth were increased levels of checking balances and spreads on money market savings, which rebounded to more normal levels after a long period of low short-term rates and depressed spreads.  

In the Checking category where gross spread income is by far the highest, we grew checking by 8% when you add back the accounts migrated to Premiere. In Money Market Savings, we grew balances more than 4% when adjusted for Premiere. This Money Market growth was during a period when spreads increased by more than 120 basis points, recovering from their very low levels.  

Service charges in the subsegment rose 8% from a year ago due to higher levels of customer accounts. In the first quarter, net new retail checking accounts increased approximately 603,000 versus 426,000 in the fourth quarter and 611,000 in the first quarter a year ago. Net new savings accounts in the quarter were 483,000, and although down from a year ago, are up dramatically from the fourth quarter due to the reintroduction of certain products and of the Keep the Change program. Convenience, customer service and innovative products like Keep the Change continue to attract new customers.  

Debit card fees increased 26% from last year, driven by debit card purchase volumes which increased dramatically. We estimate that our market share in debit cards is number one from a purchasing standpoint with a large gap to number two. These two drivers -- deposit balances and payment volumes -- were the main reasons the deposits business increased net income by 11% from last year on revenue growth of 15%.  

Active online baking customers now exceed 15 million at 15.4, up 18% from a year ago, while 7.6 million customers make payments online, up 22% from a year ago. MBNA added an additional 4.3 million online customers, increasing our total to 19.6. As you can see, we are extraordinarily well positioned for the future, given our large shares in online bill pay and debit, combined with -- on top of our already strong financial performance in this business.  

Looking at our second subsegment, Card Services, revenue growth of 6% on a managed basis from a year ago and lower losses helped increased net income to 1.3 billion. Card Services includes North American and small-business credit card, consumer finance, international card, card ops and merchant services. Total managed credit card receivables grew 4% from a year ago, seasonally down less than 1% from the fourth quarter. New account growth in the North American segment was 2.1 million in the quarter, in line with both the first quarter a year ago and the fourth quarter. Card sales efforts continue to shift to lower-cost delivery channels, including banking centers and e-commerce and away from direct mail. 28% of card sales in the first quarter were sold via these lower-cost delivery channels versus 17% a year ago.  

Purchase volumes in the North American card segment were up 8% from last year. Managed North American card loss rates were 3.12% versus 5.34%, while managed credit card loss rates were 3.12% versus 5.06% globally. The loss rates were distorted down in the short term due to bankruptcy reform legislation and purchased accounting treatment for impaired loans at MBNA. You probably noticed in the numbers already that the provision expense for all card services on a held basis was $1.2 billion in the quarter versus charge-offs of 678 million. Part of this difference is due to purchase accounting which reduces charge-offs by approximately $210 million in the quarter.  

Another significant contributor to the differences in the increase in reserves to cover the anticipated return to more normal levels of bankruptcy related charge-offs.  

Before commenting on the progress of the MBNA integration, let me cover the rest of our businesses. Within Home Equity, net income increased 36% from a year ago to 117 million, driven by increased balances. As most of you know, home equity has been a major focus of ours for the past few quarters. The breadth and convenience of our franchise is a competitive advantage since more than 60% of our home equity lending is processed through the banking centers. Over the past four quarters, home equity loans and outstanding home equity credit lines across the businesses have increased 22% on a pro forma basis with consistent growth each quarter. We have the number one market share in home equity and intend to continue our growth through sales process improvements and product and pricing enhancements. This business has also managed productivity very tightly with great results. This shows what the franchise can deliver with investment and focus.  

Moving now to Global Corporate and Investment Banking, earnings for the first quarter were $1.6 billion, down 15% from a year ago and represented 32% of total corporate earnings with an ROE of 15%. GCIB is composed of three subsegments -- business lending, capital markets and advisory services and treasury services. Business lending includes commercial and large corporate lending, along with commercial real estate, leasing, business banking and dealer financial services. This business posted the most challenging earnings comparison because of the interest rate environment and credit spreads. Earnings in the Business Lending segment dropped to 516 million from 775 million a year ago due somewhat to lower interest income, but mainly due to nonrecurring factors. Spread compression in the large corporate space as well as auto finance drove the net interest income decline. We believe the lion's share of the spread compression is now behind us. As you know, we have a CDS book of approximately 13 billion for risk mitigation purposes that has to be marked to market daily and reflected in other income. Tighter spreads resulted in a negative swings from credit hedging of $221 million as the book swung from a positive mark a year ago to a negative 83 million in the first quarter. The asymmetric accounting treatment of credit default swaps increases short-term accounting volatility in an area which should in fact reduce long-term volatility by protecting against sharp increases in credit costs during inevitable downturns in the cycle.  

On the positive side, average loans in business lending are up 15% from a year ago and up 3.4% from the fourth quarter due to new business and increased line utilization. Credit quality remains quite stable with continued improvements in criticized assets and very low charge-off levels.  

Before moving onto the next subsegment, one more comment related to overall GCIB. When we file our full supplemental information package, you will see another really positive story. From a client segment perspective, mid-teen growth in middle market and institutional investor segments are being [masked] by declines in the process from large corporates, which in turn are driven largely by nonrecurring factors for trends we believe have largely run their course.  

[United] Capital Markets and Advisory Services -- this subsegment reported earnings of $519 million, up 14% from a year ago, driven by a revenue increase of 19% with no improvement in operating leverage. Investment banking revenue grew 39% from a year ago while sales and trading rose 14% from a strong performance in the first quarter of last year. Especially encouraging was the strength in the investment banking side that continued from fourth quarter levels. The volatility in the daily P&L of sales and trading was cut almost in half versus last year, reflecting more stable results as the favorable environment combined with the investment initiatives we launched last year to drive increased customer flow. In fact, sales credits from secondary trading, an internal measure of sales production, increased 14% over the first quarter of last year, which in turn was up 30% from the first quarter of '04. Average trading assets increased 14% from a year ago to $314 billion, but were relatively flat with fourth floor levels, and that is trading related -- not just trading, but reverse repos as well.  

In short, in the Capital Markets and Advisory segment, we're seeing traction in all areas where we made our investments last year.  

A third business within GCIB is Treasury Services, which reported net income in the quarter of 514 million, up 24% from a year ago, driven by a 15% increase in revenue and 11% operating leverage. This business also benefits as rates move higher, which increases the profitability of the deposit base.  

Turning to our third main business segment, Global Wealth and Investment Management, earnings for the first quarter were $614 million, up 3% over a year ago, representing 12% of total corporate earnings with an ROE of 23%. This growth of 3% reflected a significant decline in the ALM results, which were offset by a 15% increase in non-interest income. We're pleased with the progress [Brian Moynihan] and his team are having in building a sizable AUM platform from a performance and growth standpoint.  

In addition, Brian is repositioning the premier banking and investments customer base from traditional customer-based revenue to recurring fee-based revenue stream. The three businesses within Global Wealth and Investment Management are Premier Banking and Investments, the Private Bank and Columbia Management. Premier Banking and Investments continued to build out both banking and brokerage services for the mass affluent segment and increased earnings over 34% to 228 million from a year ago. Expense levels have increased 11% as we continue to build our base of financial advisers to interface with premier banking and investment client. The private bank earned 144 million in the quarter, up over 7% from a year ago, driven by 5% revenue growth and 2% operating leverage. Columbia Management earned $80 million in the first quarter, up 11% from a year ago on 9% revenue growth and 3% operating leverage.  

Substantially all of the revenue growth was due to higher asset management fees driven by increased levels of assets under management. Total (indiscernible) assets under management increased 14% from a year ago to 494 billion. This increase of 61 billion is driven by net asset inflows of approximately 33 billion in both short-term and long-term assets, in addition to improved market valuations of over 28 billion. Versus the fourth quarter, assets under management increased 12 billion, reflecting growth in equities of 15 billion, driven by both net asset inflows and market valuation, partially offset by a decrease of $3 billion in money markets and other short-term funds. Currently, 82% of assets under management are in funds where performance is above median for their group.  

Columbia continues to increase brand recognition and investment returns, which in turn drives growth in assets under management.  

In addition to our main segments, there is Equity Investments, which we report in other and includes equity investment gains. These gains were 513 million during the first quarter -- this is the one just attached to this segment. While we don't expect to see results continue at these levels, the capital markets are currently providing significant liquidity.  

Now let me move out of the individual businesses and discuss some topics from an overall corporate perspective, starting with credit quality. Provision for credit losses in the quarter across the Corporation totaled 1.27 billion versus total charge-offs of 822 million. As I have already mentioned, the build in reserves were centered in the Card services subsegment as current charge-off levels were lower due to the impact of bankruptcy reform and the impact of impaired loan accounting. While commercial credit quality continues to be excellent, we fully expect to see some rise in credit cost ahead of us, but we don't know exactly when. Additionally, we don't know when and to what level consumer bankruptcies will normalize.  

Tier 1 capital at the end of March was 8.45%, up from 8.25% at the end of the year. During the quarter, we repurchased 49.5 million shares on a net basis, or slightly more than 1% of our shares outstanding. Given our expectations for future share repurchases, our Tier 1 ratio will drop in future quarters. Along with Tier 1 capital, we think financial strength should be measured by earnings power, diversity and liquidity. Our current liquidity reserve at both the bank and the parent is unmatched in the industry.  

Now let me say some things on the MBNA integration. I won't repeat our assumptions from last June when we announced the deal, but so far through the first quarter we're at least in line if not ahead of our assumptions on the expense side, the revenue side and funding. We estimate dilution from MBNA in the first quarter to have been approximately $0.02, but continue to expect the transaction to be at worst neutral for EPS for all of 2006.  

If you recall, we expect to see a reduction in staff levels of about 6000, and so far today, that reduction has been approximately 2000 due mainly to attrition since the announcement date. We are offering more than 300 affinity cards through online banking as well in about 700 banking centers. We will roll those cards out to the rest of the franchise later on in the year. We are only scratching the surface, but sales so far have either met or exceeded original expectations.  

Our 8-K filing last week, along with the results today, are intended to establish an informational base to help you better understand our businesses. We are migrating from providing short-term guidance to talking more about business strategy and leaving projections and estimates to the analytical community. But before we get there fully, we have to provide a long-term context for what we think we can do in each of the businesses and then report against that set of objectives.  

In addition, we want to identify several areas with the where we think there is opportunity for exciting growth. Finally, we need to better acquaint the investment community with the experience and depth of our management team. As a result, we intend to host an investor day later this year or early next year to accomplish these goals.  

With that, let me open it up for questions and I thank you for your attention this morning.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Could you run through a little bit more any onetime items in the quarter? What was the impact of the bankruptcy law change on revenues and credit quality this quarter? Also, were there any gains on sale of assets or securitization or anything else like that?  

AL DE MOLINA: No to the second, nothing meaningful anyway. But, in a Company this size, there's always little things here and there. But, nothing meaningful in terms of (technical difficulty)  

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions).  

AL DE MOLINA: -- difficult if you think about it is knowing exactly what that effect is. But keep in mind, when we estimated our losses in the fourth quarter of last year, we thought that 70% of it was a pull from this year into last year, and we have not changed our view on that. So where they fall in by quarter, I don't know. But remember the way we do our allowance, and part of the reason why you're seeing the reserve build is we project losses out 12 months and then take three quarters of that. We are dropping a really low-loss quarter because of bankruptcy and adding a normalized quarter, and that's why you're seeing the reserve build.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Okay. And then separately, deposits were still kind of flat linked-quarter (MULTIPLE SPEAKERS).  

AL DE MOLINA: It's interesting -- they are kind of flat -- depending on how you want to look at it, Mike, and this is he conversation around balancing, profitability and market share. We have given you now, so you can see how we think about the world, deposit spreads as well as volumes by category. And I told you that checking grew 8% from a year ago, which is what drives the lion's share of profitability in that segment, and in [speeds] into the extraordinary positions we have in online and debit. So while CDs have dropped off some the overall profitability base, I think we're increasing the share profits and deposits, even though we may not be increasing levels of market share. Having said all of that, with the reintroduction of certain CD products, we expect that kind of a headwind to dissipate going forward. So we should get back on that trajectory, but don't think of the loss in share so far as anything that is inconsistent with what we were trying to accomplish.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And then one last follow-up to that. Competition by region, since you're across the U.S., where is the tougher?  

AL DE MOLINA: Some of the large metros areas -- Chicago, New York, and some other Northeast cities are tougher. But none of the -- again, we have invested a lot in our product set and our convenience, and so we don't think we have to be a price leader, but we do have to play in each market.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Could you expand on a couple of thing, the mortgage business and the business loan business. The current situation, how are you looking at the outlook, and I guess the considerations here would be the interest rate situation, the yield curve and economic activity might impact these operations.  

AL DE MOLINA: Well, you asked a lot in there. When you ask about business lending, you're talking about small businesses, or just business lending in general? If you look at what has happened in business lending, large corporate compression has been pretty significant and it's down to [loans] where I think I used the words -- the lion's share of the compression is behind us. I don't think you can mathematically get to any other conclusion than that because you've had so much compression, unless we're going to start paying them for taking our money. So a lot of compression there, but you would think that that's kind of bottoming out.  

With respect to the middle market, it sustained reasonably well, all things considered, and it's growing nicely, and that's what drives that differential in the client segment that I described to you in the prepared comments where if you look at the middle market space, we grew after-tax earnings by some 15% from a year ago. And in the large corporate space, it declined pretty significantly. But we think that has largely run its course going forward.  

Now the other questions were -- the mortgage activity? Our decline in mortgage banking revenues; think about it in two pieces, approximately half each. Lower production levels is one and more deliveries to the balance sheet, so there's not secondary execution at which time you would normally recognize a marketing gain, so half and half. So lower production levels, which kind of reflects the overall market activity, is about half of the decline, and the other half is just internal allocation of product.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (inaudible - microphone inaccessible)  

AL DE MOLINA: And the last piece was the ramification of the interest rate situation. You can see in your results now, we broke out the ALM profits for you, both in total and then by segment -- well, to get to the total, you would add the segment. You have seen a pretty significant decline from last year, I think it was approximately $700 million. How much flatter can the curve go? And also, remember that the more powerful factor for us is not the shape of the curve so much as the level of rates because of the non-interest-bearing base of funds that we have. So we think the margin compression is also largely behind us, even though there could still be a little bit more. We think that ALM profits, if you look at any of the individual business units, like let's take Global Treasury Services, and think that the revenue growth is not sustainable there, you're probably right. But think of the revenue offset that has happened because of the decline in ALM profits. And you can also see that the kind of leveling off of that decline in ALM profits by looking at the fourth quarter and first quarter, which has kind of flattened out. In fact, I think it increased a little bit in the first quarter. Ron?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Al, a couple of questions. I was wondering, number one, if you could explain [SOT3] -- you know, impairment accounting on (MULTIPLE SPEAKERS)? Only if you want us to understand it.  

AL DE MOLINA: And I do. Basically what you do is, in purchase accounting, you write down the loans, but instead of putting it in goodwill, you take it out of the allowance. So all you did was take a charge-off back then. So then when you get into this quarter, and again, you have no charge-offs in this quarter because you took them in purchase accounting at the -- on the first date of the quarter. But now, as you're looking forward at your projections, you have to top off your allowance because you have future losses embedded in your portfolio. And that's basically the short of it. You took a write-down, but instead of going against goodwill, you take it against the allowance for loan losses, and then replenish it.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And then in the global corporate investment bank, you mentioned the negative impact of credit default swaps, but things that, even if you adjust for that, pretax earnings were still down a couple of hundred million. Was that mainly ALM, or other factors?  

AL DE MOLINA: I think you have an ALM piece in -- this is at the top of the house in total corporate. There's an ALM piece that affects the treasury services, there is a swing -- last year, we were leasing allowance related to some of the Latin American exposures as well. So you had a swing in the provision, which is pretty significant there. You had this [CDS] swing, and then you had the fundamental margin compression. And I think of those factors, you're going to have the short-term volatility from CDS, but as I said, it should reduce your long-term volatility. The credit spread compression could continue, but again, I don't know how much further it can go in the large corporate space.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And then just the last question is, I was coming through (indiscernible) found actual pro forma net interest revenue and margin trends. Is that in here, or is that in --?  

AL DE MOLINA: It's probably in the supplemental package.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.  

AL DE MOLINA: Should we take one from the phone?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS).  

AL DE MOLINA: Hold on, I'm sorry, we're going to take one more in the room first.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. Just wondering if you could just explain fixed income trading strength, number one? And then number two, just your outlook for private equity, and also investment banking, the pipeline in the investment banking.  

AL DE MOLINA: Okay. I want to be careful here not to violate my charge of not providing short-term guidance, but I think it's fair to ask -- how the pipelines feel today? And they feels very, very good. So nothing to distract from that. Regard to fixed-income trading in the first quarter, I draw your attention again to the reason we give you the standard deviation information is so you can see how volatile the results are. If you were taking large propositions, you would think that your P&L would be more volatile. To the extent that you're just driving revenue flows through customer business, they should be less. We've cut that volatility in half, so what that means is that was basically just kind of a very good quarter of day-to-day good performance. Nothing spectacular, avoided making some of the mistakes we made last year, and the markets were good markets to participate in. So while I would not take the billion-dollar trading result and annualize it by any stretch, because we all know that the first quarter is traditionally a very, very strong quarter, there is nothing in the results that say there was like someone windfalls coming out of the profitability of any of the segments that won't be repeated. We should go, unless we make mistakes, we should go with the market and commensurate with all of the investment we made last year, which was really driven towards the debt side of the business and the sales and trading side of the business as it caught up to the origination side.  

So, really a great story of steady, steady performance in there. It's early in the second quarter, we haven't seen anything that tells us that things are any different. It feels quite good, but you don't have that much visibility around that business, and that's one of the challenges you have.  

OPERATOR: Jefferson Harralson, KBW.  

JEFFERSON HARRALSON, ANALYST, KBW: I wanted to ask a question about the Card Services unit. You had 6% year-over-year, revenue growth on a pro forma basis, but there was an IL write-down at MBNA in the year ago quarter. Do you know if that's in or not in the 1Q '05?  

AL DE MOLINA: It is in the 1Q '05 performance in your results, yes.  

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: And just one more follow-up on SOP 3. Will the future losses from the MBNA loans show up by a write-down of the intangible, or a write-down of some kind of reserve in the allowance, or do they just show up as a regular charge-off in future quarters?  

AL DE MOLINA: No, they won't show up as a charge-off. When you try and roll forward the allowance, if you take the Bank of America allowance plus the MBNA allowance and try and come up to the new, you will be missing a piece, and that's the write-down. In essence, you take the charge-off by writing down the loans, and then writing down the allowance. But we've already done that. Now, the losses as they come through will just come through as reversals of that reduction in the loan portfolio. So they are gone, you won't see those anymore. But the point of bringing it all up is, if you look at the gap between our charge-offs and our allowance, it looks as though we're building a huge allowance because we're concerned about something. And the fact is that all it is, is that those charge-offs, which traditionally would go through an then kind of stabilize were not in the charge-off base because they went directly against the allowance already. So there's no more adjustments to goodwill, no more adjustments to anything; just kind of understated charge-offs for a little period, and most of that understatement occurred in the first quarter. There will still be some in the second quarter and perhaps a little bleed into the third.  

JEFFERSON HARRALSON: Thanks a lit, that's helpful.  

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, Merrill Lynch.  

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning Al. My main question was asked and answered, but just two quick housekeeping questions. Number one, can you tell us how much of the margin expansion from the fourth quarter to the first quarter was caused by bringing MBNA onto the books, and how much might have been core? And secondarily, can you confirm that the $175 million derivative loss was a deduction from net interest income? That's where it showed up, correct?  

AL DE MOLINA: No. The reduction from FAS 133 shows up in other income. The margin add from MBNA I believe was 16 basis points, and the rest of the Company was basically flat. You had a significant increase in net interest income from the fourth quarter to the first quarter. I would not annualize that either. I think going forward, we will stick with our original guidance on that front as well.  

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Jonathan Finger, Finger Interest.  

JONATHAN FINGER, ANALYST, FINGER INTEREST: Hi. Question regarding tangible equity. How do you look at that ratio, and is there point at which that may affect your ability to repurchase shares going forward?  

AL DE MOLINA: I'm glad you asked that, because it's a question that's on a lot of people's minds. We don't really manage to the intangible equity number basically at all. Remember my background, I was the Treasurer for many years and I was responsible for kind of the financial strength of the institution, and intangible ratios were not one of the things that I used to guide our actions. If you think about movements and intangible ratios, you have to think about the causes for the movement. A lot of it last year was built on -- the last two years was as we built the investment banking business and kind of got the asset allocation to those businesses commensurate with some of the -- of some of our peers, some of our competitors. And then you had the OCI question where we chose in our derivative space to use cash flow hedging a lot more because we thought it was fundamentally easier to track and to report and to monitor. And by doing that, the debit in a rising rate environment ends up in OCI, while in the other institutions, it's sprinkled throughout the balance sheet on their fair value hedges. So that is another reason why the tangible ratio is going down, it's because of the increase in OCI, which is as we know, offset by the increased value of the deposit base in that same environment. So if you look at the reasons for it, there's really no fundamental change there. I in fact had meetings with two of the major rating agencies yesterday. My team met with the third. I don't know whether they discussed it. But I told them that they could write down that it's going through 4%, and that the reason for that is that there's not something fundamental that's going on there, it's just the OCI change. They will never commit to anything, but there was no raised eyebrows or contention around there. In fact, it was a pretty good discussion about how it's a very, very weak measure.  

Lastly, if you go across the pond, you could see some of our competitors run leverage ratios that are half ours. So I don't know what it is about the Atlantic Ocean that makes it okay to be tighter on intangible over there than here. So long-winded answer, but I'm glad you asked it, because it's important for people to understand that we don't view that 4% as a red line. It's not going to change the way we behave in terms of our capital management, it's not going to change the way we behave with respect to allocating capital to business growth opportunities. It's just something that we will have to report on and live with.  

JONATHAN FINGER: Thank you.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (indiscernible) just want to make sure what you said about FAS 123R, that all of the annual charge was this quarter and there will be no charges in subsequent quarters this year?  

AL DE MOLINA: This year, that's right (MULTIPLE SPEAKERS).  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: So it's always the first quarter?  

AL DE MOLINA: It will always be the middle month of the first quarter of every year, unless we change our program somehow, but I don't think that that's this time contemplated.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thanks.  

AL DE MOLINA: Do we have another -- note -- the next time, let's get two mikes so we don't have to shoot across the room here.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Could you update us a little bit on the cost savings targets that you have for MBNA? And in terms of the consolidation of a lot of their facilities around the nation, are we through with the closing down of some of their facilities and merging them into the (MULTIPLE SPEAKERS).  

AL DE MOLINA: I will let the management team for that unit talk about the pace and closing actions themselves so that they can manage that communication the most appropriate way.  

With regard to the saves, I would say that we are comfortable that we will achieve at least the level of savings that we said, and we will achieve less loss of revenues from financial institutions. We will achieve at least as much in funding benefits. We've had their base earnings decline pretty significantly in that they had a very large liability sensitivity position. That fortuitously was offset by some of the purchase accounting that you saw in the K, so that is not really affecting us but will affect us going forward as some of those purchase accounting adjustments dissipate some. So you had a base decline, but all of the things related to the integration and merger are going very, very well and all of the opportunities that people see where we did not give ourselves any credit in the initial conversations around any significant revenue synergies, there is a lot of excitement around things that can be done together, integrating the capabilities that the two institutions have to come up with getting a better growth across the platform. So all in all, very satisfied with the MBNA integration and very satisfied with the expected future results from that effort. Another one from the line?  

OPERATOR: Lori Appelbaum, Goldman Sachs.  

LORI APPELBAUM, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: My question relates to the huge amount of operating leverage at GCIB. Revenues increased 12% sequentially and expenses only 2%. So my question is, how do you achieve this much operating leverage? Are comp accruals likely to go up in coming quarters, or was there underlying expense say from the period in the business?  

AL DE MOLINA: The place where the incentive accruals would be affected by the large trading improvement was in capital markets and advisory, and there was really no operating leverage there. And the reason there was no operating leverage there wasn't the lack of expense discipline, it's that we are continuing to invest in the places where we said we were going to invest in last year going forward.  

Now to the extent that there were above planned revenues in that segment in the first quarter, there was a commensurate above planned incentive comp accrual in the quarter as well, so that does not affect anything. With regard to the kind of broader capital -- global capital -- GCIB, they have middle market in there and treasury services, where traditionally we have had good, good operating leverage. We have a very low efficiency ratio in the commercial space, and you have good opportunity for operating leverage in the treasury management space. Having said that, that will probably dissipate some as we invest in technology in that business, which we see as one of our growth opportunities on the plate.  

LORI APPELBAUM: In capital markets and advisory, revenues increased 43% and expenses 6% sequentially?  

AL DE MOLINA: (indiscernible)  

LORI APPELBAUM: I'm not doing year-over-year, I'm doing sequentially.  

AL DE MOLINA: I'm doing year-over-year because we had catch-ups --- we had a really bad fourth quarter. No one is declaring victory on this. I'm giving you the trends that I saw. But as I said at the end of the fourth quarter, we've got a lot of work to do. And what you had there was lower levels of revenues, but you had to maintain the level of comp accruals and so forth because the issues that were resident were legacy issues. It had nothing to do really with the investment, and to then but the comp would have been really, really destructive to this year. So you're comparing it on a linked-quarter basis to something that's really not comparable. In other words, the fourth quarter is not one to compare against when you're looking at operating leverage, and it's also not one to brag about growth in revenues and so forth, which we did not.  

LORI APPELBAUM: Okay.  

OPERATOR: Vivek Juneja, JP Morgan.  

VIVEK JUNEJA, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Just a clarification. You talked so declared losses will eventually go what. 30-day delinquencies moved back up to 445 from 398, so that is quite an increase if you look at just December 31 to March 31. And it's a little bit below where it was a year ago, but not that far. So any more color on how quickly, particularly on the card side, credit losses would come back?  

AL DE MOLINA: I think what you're seeing there is some of the aging affects in the Bank of America growth side of things. So, no, and that is all reflected in -- the financial formats that you see has already reflected everything that we see on the horizon in card in terms of increased charge-offs. Because remember, the way we do that is we project out over a period and then take that as the -- and true up the allowance based on our expectations of losses over that horizon. So you're seeing everything that we think today in the provision and the statistics that you see.  

VIVEK JUNEJA: Thanks.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (inaudible - microphone inaccessible) you don't use tangible capital as a measure of efficiency or -- in your analysis, what do you use? And secondly, I realize losses grew another 1.4 billion to now 9 billion. how do you look at that, and when is too much enough?  

AL DE MOLINA: A couple of pieces. With regard to what we use to manage, it's economic capital. The economic capital requirement for the risk we take is much lower than our regulatory requirement, so that is a lower number. We use Tier 1 as a measure because our regulators actually do focus on that one. They do not focus on tangible, which is another observation I did not include in my previous answer. So with regard to what do we use, we use economic capital and we use our Tier 1 regulatory and total capital regulatory, and leverage capital regulatory.  

With regard to the additional -- when rates -- we had a 45 basis point I think backup in rates. When rates back up, you get more unrealized losses in the portfolio. As I have described to folks in the past -- and think about the results that you have in front of you and the dramatic growth in deposit revenues, which is offsetting -- you don't get to take that debit or credit in the capital competition, but you could see it go through the income statement. The good news is that that one doesn't go away, the deposit piece, but the securities that resulted in the loss do eventually mature and the loss is simply a reflection that you can reinvest those proceeds at higher rates. So I always look at the OCI, and maybe I'm a glass-half-full kind of guy, but as an opportunity for enhanced returns later on as long as rates stay where they are or higher. So how much is too much? We don't have any pressure, not even pressure, we don't even have any discussions with our regulators around it. The rating agencies don't appear to be overly concerned about it. Our management understands it, so we're not concerned about it. So (indiscernible) on the 50 basis points, I guess [we'll] have a commensurate increase in that OCI number, but you'll also have a commensurate increase in revenues from deposits and everything else.  

OPERATOR: John Pandtle, Raymond James.  

JOHN PANDTLE, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Good morning. I was wondering if you share with us your reinvestment plans for cash flows coming off the securities portfolio, given your outlook for loan growth, the shape of the yield curve, wholesale funding, et cetera? Just thinking about relative growth in the securities portfolio versus loan growth for the year?  

AL DE MOLINA: I was going to say, we don't plan too far ahead about the rate environment, because we deal with it as we deal with it. But with regard to that specific question, we are in the middle of executing plans where we will have kind of a lower level of securities and a higher level of loans, even when we are talking about taking mortgage exposure. We will try and use that mortgage exposure to enhance customer businesses, and so you will see downward pressure on the securities portfolio and higher levels of loans. The other categories will grow however they grow, but with regard to the MBS allocation to mortgage, we will try and use that to drive innovative products and client relationships by doing that. So less securities, more loans.  

JOHN PANDTLE: Thank you.  

AL DE MOLINA: No one from the phone?  

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Just two quick questions on the capital front. Can you share with us what the rating agencies are viewing as the most important measures for them?  

AL DE MOLINA: I cannot speak for the rating agencies, I can just tell you as I just did that the conversation was one that didn't raise any eyebrows when I told them what our plans were with regard to the tangible number. I think all of them look at things differently and all of them have their measures. And liquidity is a big driver, probably more in one agency versus another, but liquidity is the primary driver for both. And our liquidity numbers that are in the handout, you will see them, excess liquidity in excess of $0.25 billion at the bank level and resources for over two years at the holding company unmatchable. So that is a big factor for them. They all look at things differently with regard to risk weighting and so forth. So you have to actually talk to them. But with regard to the specific question at hand, are we going to change our posture towards buying back shares or growing our businesses because of a bright line in tangible, the answer is (indiscernible).  

BETSY GRASECK: And I thought that you had for Tier 1 something like an 810, 820 type of range that you were either thinking about or managing towards. Is there any why reason why in the first quarter you weren't managing Tier 1 capital to that type of a level?  

AL DE MOLINA: Yes, actually, Betsy. The problem with the first quarter is, the day after I left you here, after the first (indiscernible) news release, we could get back on the market. The day after that was when I found out about the FAS 133 restatement, so we got out of the market. So we weren't buying for the lion's share of the first quarter and just picked up that activity later on. And that's why you saw the drift up, and that's why in my prepared comments, I did not say it might go down, I said it will go down.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right. So we should be anticipating greater share buyback in the second quarter?  

AL DE MOLINA: I'm sorry?  

BETSY GRASECK: We should be anticipating greater net share buyback in the second quarter than you had in the first?  

AL DE MOLINA: I would think you would expect a decline in the Tier 1 ratio, and we'll see what it means in terms of net share buyback because you have two components. You have exercises and issuance, and then you have our buybacks. So we'll have to see where it comes out. But I think you get from my comments the tone in our bias.  

BETSY GRASECK: Sure, okay, thanks.  

AL DE MOLINA: That's it from the phones -- anything here? Mike?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: At the time of the MBNA announcement, you said you might bring in-house some of the financing MBNA was doing with some Wall Street firms, and let your own securities unit do it. Have you done anything along those lines?  

AL DE MOLINA: Yes. Our folks are going to be the lead on anything that we do, but we share our businesses with other firms as well. But we kind of run those things now through our units.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And you started to do that, or you expect to do a lot more?  

AL DE MOLINA: No, we have already started to that, and we don't expect to do any more because you can't do any more than 100%.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thanks.  

AL DE MOLINA: I wish we could. That's it? Thanks, everybody, I appreciate it.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060504e24k000ru
  


 HD
 Q4  2005  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
12,694 words
   PD
23 January 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
KEVIN STITT, DIRECTOR INVESTOR RELATIONS, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning, this is Kevin Stitt, Banc of America's Director of Investor Relations.  

Before Ken Lewis and Al de Molina begin the remarks, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial conditions, results and expectations in that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.  

   TD
These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures in the financial services industry or legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.  

With that, let me turn the meeting over to Ken.  

KEN LEWIS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Kevin. Good morning.  

Before Al starts his discussion about fourth quarter earnings, I want to take just couple of minutes to focus on results for the whole year.  

Results for 2005 were not only significantly in line with our outlook that we provided last January, but also in line if not better than outlook and assumptions we announced more than two years ago with the Fleet acquisition. As you can see from the pro forma numbers that we provided in the supplement, earnings in 2005 of $17 billion increased 13% versus 2004.  

This performance was driven by a 9% increase in revenue on an FTE basis and a drop in expenses of 1% excluding merger and restructuring charges, which highlights both the success of the Fleet integration effort and our focus on operating leverage.  

These dynamics offset a 45% increase in provision and a 50% decrease in gains from the sale of securities, which together represented a negative impact on earnings of approximately $2.3 billion.  

In 2005 core net interest income on a pro forma and FTE basis was up 4.3%, or $1.3 billion versus 2004, slightly above the 4% outlook that we gave you in January. However, trading net interest income was down 29% given other changes in the yield curve. Combined net interest income was up more than 2%.  

Noninterest income was up 19% driven by several areas. The biggest percentage increases were equity investment gains and mortgage banking income.  

Trading account profits were also up significantly, but remember, that has to be measured in conjunction with the drop in trading net interest income, thus total trading revenue plus equity commissions were up 5% for the year. The 9% revenue growth in 2005 represented the high end of our outlook last January.  

As I mentioned, provision for credit losses increased 45% from a year ago. Much of the increase was, of course, due to credit card charge-offs.  

Last January we said we expected credit card charge-offs to be in excess of $3 billion. Excluding the impact of bankruptcy reform, credit card charge-offs were $3.1 billion.  

The decrease in expense levels in 2005 drove our efficiency ratio below 50%, which was our stated goal at the beginning of the year. And [inaudible] has been our goal for the 37 years I've been with our Company so we were happy to get that.  

All in all, 2005 came in as close to our outlook as one could expect.  

One other thing I'd like to point out is the results we have achieved over the past two years also on a pro forma basis.  

At the end of 2003, the external outlook for Bank of America was pretty gloomy. There was doubt about our ability to generate the targeted cost saves from the Fleet merger, as well as the belief that we would lose customers.  

Over the past two years, total revenue is up 13% on expenses were up 3%, excluding merger charges with provision up 4%, and security gains being relatively flat, EPS rose 31%.  

Pick whatever measure you want, deposits, checking accounts, customer satisfaction, commercial customers, et cetera, we have been successful in materially adding to our customer base across the franchise and across the Northeast. I mentioned both comparisons to 2004 and to 2003 to highlight our consistence in hitting many of the targets we've identified over the past two years.  

Now, I know you're all focused on the fourth quarter so I'll turn it over to Al.  

AL DE MOLINA, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Ken, and good morning everyone. And welcome to our review of the fourth quarter earnings. It's good to be back in New York as always, I enjoy the experience.  

Today, I'd like to convey three things to you.  

First, the fourth quarter performance was the first in a long time where we failed to meet our own expectations. It's unclear what was in the consensus, but I think it's safe to say that we fell somewhat short of most of yours as well.  

While this is important, it is equally important that the performance was affected by factors that don't indicate a trend. I'll provide clarity around the strengths and weaknesses in Q4 and Q3.  

Second, I want to start laying the groundwork to a better understanding on your part of our various businesses. I'll provide you with more detailed information showing that 85% of our earnings are driven by businesses that are extremely well positioned competitively, have good predictability and brand, and have the potential to grow at 10% on average over the cycle.  

The remaining 15% of earnings is in businesses with weaker competitive positions that are being built out or in activities that are inherently more volatile.  

Finally, I'll provide you some thoughts in how we see 2006 unfolding and what some of the opportunities will be as well as some of the headwinds.  

You'll see that while 10% long-term growth is still the right backdrop, 2006 will be a slower-growth year. Where possible, I'll try and build from the businesses to the corporate result.  

Our feeling is that by giving you guidance in this manner, it will provide you more granular information to assess our progress in each business and in total and by breaking out the less visible components, you will get a view of where we see the risk of volatility.  

Now the outlook I'm going to give you today is much more detailed than what you've received from us in the past from a business standpoint. Actually, we'd like to be going the other way.  

I prefer to limit our guidance on the outlook to the economy and business conditions generally. Today's really a step in that direction. By giving you long-term guidance on a business-by-business basis, we think that that should be adequate for valuation purposes.  

From this information and from further reporting against this information, we will leave it to you to determine how we're doing against our long-term objectives and what the stock is worth. I thought that to give you only long-term objectives out of the chute would not be enough in '06.  

Let me start by discussing the fourth quarter followed by remarks on the individual businesses, some balance sheet comments and capital, and a summary of our outlook in 2006 for each business and in total. I'll then close with an MBNA update.  

One thing before I get started, I'm assuming all of you have read the press release and have access to the financial supplement which includes 2004 pro forma financial information, including Fleet for the first quarter of 2004. We felt that by leaving the first quarter of 2004, it was either misleading or too difficult to describe, and so now you've got four quarters to four quarters. These documents were issued this morning.  

We believe that the pro forma information will give you a better picture of the progress year-over-year, so I'll avoid repeating many of the numbers contained in the documents. Of course, our IR people will be available to help you with any questions that arise beyond what we can address today.  

Okay, the fourth quarter.  

Results were impact impacted by a confluence of negative factors, some legislative and some market-related. The good news is that a number of the issues that had a negative impact on fourth quarter results are unique to the fourth quarter and don't signify a trend going into 2006.  

The first category impacting the fourth quarter was of course the change in bankruptcy laws and a change in our practices for overdraft charge-offs and over-limit card fees. Total impact from these items were approximately $320 million pretax, or a $.05.  

Another factor in the quarter was a drop in trading-related revenue and equity commissions of 276 million, which represents another $.05. This performance was largely driven by the market.  

There were other ins and outs during the quarter, including a drop in equity investment gains and a tax repatriation, which added or subtracted a $0.01 or $0.02, but credit costs and trading were the significant issues representing what I just described.  

Let me elaborate more on consolidated line items. You may want to refer to Slide 5 in the presentation package.  

Net interest income on a FTA basis was up $130 million, or 2% from the third quarter, which is better than my projection to you in October. Core NII actually increased 146 million or almost 2% while trading-related net interest income dropped slightly.  

The core results included $43 million reduction due to bankruptcy reform legislation, so the core results were even better than that. The major reason for this outperformance versus our outlook just a couple months ago was continued discipline around deposit pricing even as market rates continued to rise.  

This reflects the implementation of the balanced approach between market share and profitability that we were pursuing and that I discussed with you in October.  

The reported net interest margin was up 2 basis points versus the third quarter. Core net interest yield was down a basis point.  

Moving now to noninterest income. Overall, it was down $572 million, or over 8% from the third quarter.  

The market sensitive areas of trading and equity investments represented $448 million of that decline. As weak as these trading results are, they appear to be in line with our peers when compared on an apples-to-apples basis with regard to reporting periods and businesses.  

Service charges decreased $153 million. $53 million of the drop was associated with the adoption of a more conservative approach to overdraft balances and related fees, which I mentioned to you previously.  

Prior to this change, we wrote off uncollected fees after 120 days and now we've moved that to 60. Also contributing to the decrease in service charges was a high third quarter in NSF activity.  

Some of this may be attributable to the bankruptcy issue as well as some initiatives on our part to help customers to better manage their balances to avoid fees.  

Fourth quarter moderated to normal levels. However, going forward, I'd use the fourth quarter numbers to build a base to go forward because I think that pricing changes will have some follow-through in the early part of next year.  

Card income was down $13 million from the third quarter, due to the negative impact of bankruptcies of $28 million, and a waiver during the quarter of over-limit fees that equaled $34 million. Provision expense was up 241 million over the third quarter, due to increased bankruptcies, high card charge-offs resulting from seasoning of the portfolio, securitizations returning to the balance sheet and a slower rate of improvement in commercial credit quality.  

Noninterest expense was up $96 million as decreases in various areas were offset by higher levels of litigation-related accruals and write-offs of excess floor space. Expense control remains excellent. Slide 6 gives you a bit more detail on net interest income.  

At this point, I'd like to shift the discussion to the individual businesses, and I'll start with Global Consumer and Small Business, Slide 7. In the middle, close to the bottom that you can see in 2005, pro forma earnings increased 14% driven by revenue growth of 9%, partially offset by expense growth of 1% and a significant increase in the provision.  

Within Global Consumer, I'd like to highlight card services, which is part of the Global Consumer Small Business bank. My discussion here is pre-MBNA.  

Revenue growth in card services in 2005 was 7% on a pro forma basis. Our success story in this business stems from our ability to sell cards through our stores. Sales of credit cards in the stores were up 38% in 2005 versus 2004.  

We had a strong market position in this business before MBNA and now we obviously have a leading position. Our trends and predictability are usually very good in the card business, however, the impact of changes in min pay requirements and bankruptcy reform have made it somewhat difficult to predict in the very near-term.  

In 2006, we expect unusually strong growth in net income, exceeding 25% due to the negative bankruptcy impact in 2005. Longer term expectations are closer to 10%. This may still seem too high to some of you.  

Our combined strengths in credit card, debit card, merchant processing, bill pay and home equity give Bank of America a unique position in the payment and consumer credit arenas. We intend to leverage that position by approaching the marketplace with aggressive and coordinated strategies across all of these products.  

Excluding the impact of card services, the remaining businesses within GCSB had revenue growth this year of 7%.  

Growth here was tempered somewhat due to the effects of an adverse interest rate environment. However, earnings growth in 2005 was still approximately 20%, as a result of growth across all businesses, and importantly, the impact of the Fleet-related savings.  

Although service charges were down from the third quarter, these levels were up 6% from the fourth quarter a year ago, and up 11% for the full year, more in line with our expectations. We expect 2006 to revert to long-term growth trends in fee revenues, although as I mentioned, the first quarter may reflect some downward pressure from fourth quarter actions.  

Product sales for the year, including credit card, checking card, savings accounts and home equity were quite strong, totaling 32 million. Please refer to Slide 8 in your handout for details by product.  

As you can see, these sales are shifting to lower cost channels. E-commerce sales now represent 12% of total sales versus 8% a year ago. However, more than three-quarters of our sales still come through the channels.  

To give you an idea of the costs saved between channel, a card originating in the branch, $100, online 50 -- 38, and if it's a co-brand, if it's not a co-brand, $19. So you can see what a cost advantage you have there.  

In 2006, we expect mid single-digit growth in net income as the consumer, excluding card, works through the interest rate headwind. Obviously, consumer banking is our best-positioned business.  

Going forward between 2006, once you get to a normal yield curve, we would expect solid, consistent single-digit revenue growth combined with positive operating leverage driving 10% long-term net income growth.  

We believe significant opportunities for growth exist in Small Business, in mortgage banking, and in our ability to continue leveraging our multiple distribution channels. In addition, our extremely strong market shares in online and bill pay and debit card allow us to benefit from the evolution of the payment system.  

The next business I'll discuss is Global Business and Financial Services on Slide 11 which comprises several businesses of which the largest is middle market banking.  

Compared to pro forma 2004 earnings for GBFS in 2005, were up 12% driven by 9% revenue growth and strong expense control. This 12% growth in net income took place while the business absorbed a reduced benefit of the provision of $312 million.  

Loan growth remained strong all year and ended the year in like fashion, as you can see on Slide 12. Most of the businesses in GBFS have strong, if not leading market positions.  

Revenues and expenses are stable with credit costs moving with the cycle and introducing some volatility. While we expect solid single-digit revenue growth longer term, we believe we can accelerate growth by executing on our universal bank strategy.  

Solid expense controls resulting in attractive operating leverage should produce high single-digit earnings growth on a consistent basis over the long run.  

In 2006, we expect revenue trends to remain intact, expenses will increase modestly, as merger benefits abate. We expect higher credit costs which will offset some of the positive operating leverage.  

One of the businesses in GBFS is middle market treasury services, a similar business, large corporate treasury services, is housed in Global Capital Markets and Investment Banking. Both businesses make up GTS, of global treasury services, because GTS is spread across two businesses, it doesn't get the attention it should.  

In 2006 we intend to break out GTS as a subsegment of the new GCIB.  

In 2005, on a combined basis and pro forma, net income in GTS grew 12.5% to $1.5 billion, driven by 4.5% revenue growth, and excellent expense control. In 2006, we expect similar revenue growth, but net income growth in the mid single-digit range as a result of accelerated investments in technology.  

We're stronger in the paper processing side of this business that's inherent in the middle market. Since the overall business though will migrate toward the technology side, we need to invest and we'll start accelerating that investment modestly in 2006.  

Although the business is very competitive, we're committed to retaining our leadership position.  

Consequently, longer term, we view GTS as an annuity producing high single-digit earnings growth driven by productivity. Our predictability for this business is very high.  

The next business I'd like to discuss is Global Wealth and Investment Management. The growth in revenue in net income in 2005 reflects the benefit of Fleet, higher asset management fees, higher loan volume and higher deposit revenue due to the migration of significant deposit balances from the consumer bank.  

The transfer of these deposits overstates the growth number here. In 2006 we expect that to be a mid single-digit number and we expect mid single-digit revenue growth in total.  

Global Wealth and Investment Management has continued to build out its asset management complex and generates asset management fees which stand at 482 billion at year-end. AUM is at 42.  

In 2005, GWIM experienced growth in assets under management of more than $30 billion. A key focus within Wealth and Investment Management is premier banking and investments, which joins our full service retail brokerage channel with our premier banking channel.  

This combination brings a personalized expertise to the mass affluent with investable assets in excess of more than $100,000. We believe premier banking and investments represents a significant opportunity as we execute our strategy of expanding banking, investment and other wealth-management services to this segment.  

This customer base is growing and we're gaining traction and deepening relationships. The number of premier banking households with brokerage relationships has grown 49% from a year ago.  

You may have noticed that we lowered our online trading cost depending on the customer relationship. Self-directed trades across Wealth and Investment Management were up 33% in 2005.  

For 2006, and longer term we expect net income growth for Global Wealth and Investment Management in the high single-digit range driven by 2 to 3% operating leverage.  

Finally, turning to our last business segment and probably the most complex, let me say a few words about Global Capital Markets and Investment Banking, which is Slide 15.  

For 2005, net income was down 14%, due mainly to less benefit of a provision. Revenue was down 4% while expenses were flat.  

This business, excluding GTS, represents approximately 8% of the total company in 2005. It had the weakest relative competitive position of all of our major businesses. As a result, we decided to begin to invest in this business in 2005.  

By its very nature, this business introduces volatility and the road in '05 was certainly bumpy. While a great deal of the shortfall is market-related we believe that we still have much work to do in the building of a diversified portfolio of businesses.  

Looking at the market shares on Slide 16, as you can see that although our banking position improved in 2005, the places where we're the strongest, grew the least and vice versa. For instance, we went from Number 4 to Number 2 in high yield but market issuance declined significantly.  

In investment grade underwriting we went from eight to five in one year while issuance was flat. Our M&A revenue grew by 57% but from a very small base. In equity underwriting, we maintained our weak Number 10 position in market share.  

In sum, while investment banking revenues were down a touch, our position improved in the places where we invested. In 2006, we'll work on those areas we still should be working on, like mortgage backed securities and asset backed securities. The equity business is a longer term proposition.  

On the trading side, our results were quite volatile and did not benefit from either the exposure to commodities that helped our peer group, nor the good international results that some of our peers had.  

The markets businesses are not yet broad enough and will take time to build a diversity which helps the comparisons. However, we made significant progress in terms of building out the market making activities and we'll continue to do so in 2006.  

We remain committed to the build-out of this business and believe that in time we'll be on par with the top performers where we choose to compete. Also, we firmly believe that in time it will improve our other businesses as we approach the vertical integrations across many asset classes.  

We think this is a glass half full, which in time will lead to better growth and positioning for the overall enterprise.  

In 2006, we expect significant bottom-lime improvement for this business from the weak 2005 results. Given our investment and some progress this year, we think that this business can grow net income in excess of 10%.  

Before summing up our outlook for 2006, I want to say a few things about capital levels.  

As you can see on Slide 18, we ended up 2005 with a Tier 1 ratio of 8.2%. We're mindful of the need to maintain regulatory capital ratios for certain constituencies.  

Further, we don't expect any significant change in our capital ratios going forward. However, from a financial management standpoint, we believe that liquidity is what matters and in many ways, is what capital ratios were meant to capture. But that doesn't tell the full story.  

Our liquidity posture is unmatched by any other financial institution. As a result, we're not going to be managing to any bright line in terms of capital ratios.  

So as long as the growth rate implied in our stock price, which is below 4% today, remains lower than our view, our bias is to be using our available excess capital to buy Bank of America shares.  

Given that our expectation of 10% long-term growth in earnings implies a stock price of over $75, you can expect us to be an active buyer of our shares for the foreseeable future. And with recent activity in stock prices, it's safe to say that we'll be an aggressive buyer as soon as we can get out of the blackout period.  

During the fourth quarter, we repurchased a net of 13.4 million shares while essentially being out of the market for more than a month.  

Another issue that I'll discuss under the caption of capital management is that of securitization and our plans for credit card.  

The out-of-pocket costs for securitizations are underwriting fees and ABS spread costs. Offsetting the costs are the benefits of lower capital and reserve requirements.  

We will approach this issue in a very disciplined fashion along those lines. That is, we'll seek to generate the capital cost savings and reduce the out-of-pocket costs to the maximum degree possible.  

Right now, I wouldn't plan on any radical change. Whatever we do will be gradual and fully explained to you as we execute it.  

Our current thinking going to 2006 is quite positive. We expect the economy to grow around the 3.5% range with inflation under control, the mortgage market moderating, but not dramatically.  

Consumer credit quality appears quite stable and should remain so with the growing job market. We think commercial credit quality is still very good but expect eventually to see some deterioration from current levels.  

When that deterioration occurs, and what year, let alone what quarter, is a good question. Our view on interest rates doesn't differ dramatically from the forward curve.  

As you can see on Slide 27, we benefit if the curve steepens from the forwards. Most of you already know our outlook for net interest income.  

We think core net interest income in legacy Bank of America will grow in the 3 to 4% range. Given the flat yield curve, trading-related net interest income will be down.  

Total net interest income growth is therefore expected to be lower than the guidance for core alone. Of course, you should evaluate trading-related net interest income as part of the total revenues generated from Capital Markets businesses and not related to the balance sheet and Al's [inaudible] discussions.  

Add to all this everything I've just said about the various businesses, and you can see that we're looking for total revenue growth in 2006 to come in at the low end of our 6 to 9% long-term range. Planning for the lower end of the range seems prudent given the headwinds from the rate environment.  

Included in these numbers would be equity investment gains of approximately 3 to $500 million per quarter. Not included in the revenue assumptions are securities gains which at best will be minimal.  

Expense control will continue to be focused, but to lose the benefit of the additional efficiencies from the Fleet integration while we begin the MBNA integration. We expect positive operating leverage but not in the ranges we've been experiencing in the past year.  

Provision is difficult to forecast for obvious reasons. While we've done our best to estimate how much of the bankruptcy charge-offs are accelerated in the min pay impact, these estimates are subject to uncertainty.  

Another factor is how fast commercial credit costs will grow as we move through the cycle. Annualizing the provision from the fourth quarter, excluding the impacts from bankruptcies, or about $5 billion, seems a reasonable assumption and we won't know whether we're high or low of that until the second half of the year.  

Factoring in the addition of MBNA is another variable. At this time, we reference our additional guidance with one change.  

In July, we told you that MBNA would be 1% diluted in 2006. We now think that the addition of MBNA will be neutral to earnings in 2006, excluding merger charges. Not a dramatic change, but better than our earlier guidance.  

We feel better about the long-term trajectory. However, in 2006 stand-alone earnings for MBNA will be compressed more than expected due to increases in short-term rates.  

Much of this compression will be offset by positives elsewhere in the integration.  

If you look at the earnings information on MBNA that we included, you can see that reported total revenue and expenses in the quarter were 2.5 billion and 1.7 billion respectively. Adding that to the BAC results in the fourth quarter, give you a pro forma starting place of 17 billion in revenue and 9 billion in expenses.  

Excluding the impact of bankruptcies from both companies, provision is a combined 1.5 billion on a pro forma and reported basis. Average diluted shares in the quarter on a combined basis would be 4.7 billion.  

Since we closed the acquisition at the beginning of the year, our earnings trajectory will be upward throughout the year. Expect several penny dilution in the first quarter and offsetting that later on in the year.  

While purchase accounting will have some impact going forward, our guidance reflects those adjustments. We'll disclose the fair value adjustments when we issue our K.  

During 2006, in line with our assumptions last July, we're still estimating expense efficiencies of 625 million, and higher intangible amortization of 5 to 600 million pretax. The restructuring charge hitting P&L in 2006 is estimated to be between 8 and $900 million pretax for the year.  

Slide 20 is meant to bring the business guidance together for you in a simplified manner.  

The EPS impact shown here are nothing more than the business unit net income divided by the number of shares outstanding for the Company. We felt that this very simplified approach would bring together several of the messages we covered today.  

On this slide, you'll see a subtotal adding up to 85% of our businesses. This 85% of our earnings are in businesses where we have good market position and decent predictability. The earnings grew 16% from '04 to '05, from $3.09 to $3.50.  

Slide 21 give us you 2006 and long-term guidance by business and in total.  

In 2006, due to the headwinds previously discussed, the businesses will grow in the mid single-digit range. Longer term we think that the 10% per annum growth is appropriate.  

The other 15% of earnings is driven by businesses that are work in progress, Capital Markets and Investment Banking, or results from activities that are more volatile in nature, such as equity investments. These businesses from 2004 to 2005 had a drop in earnings of 10%.  

Equity investments and other, which is driven by the gains out of the [ALCO] process have been more volatile versus our businesses that comprised the 85. Going forward, we'll continue to improve the Capital Markets and Investment Banking business as previously discussed.  

We're continuing to modify our approach to private equity investing, including our strategy to reduce our level of fund investments. [ALCO] will always yield some level of volatility but it's critical to how we manage the Company.  

We'll try to be clear in addressing risk and reward in the [ALCO] process, and we've heard the message from investors, that while they want us to continue to exploit our advantages and capabilities, they would prefer less volatility.  

So in closing, we made real progress in 2005. Although we exited in a somewhat noisy fashion, you should not miss the 11% year-over-year growth in EPS and the 11% compound annual growth rate in EPS through 2000.  

We look forward to the year ahead and are confident of our long-term growth expectations of 10%. Against that backdrop 2006 should show EPS growth in the low to single digits.  

We're very well positioned and have good visibility over 85% of our earnings which fuels our confidence, both short-term and long-term.  

Our expectations around MBNA are upbeat. We think this is a great add to the portfolio of businesses we have. We'll make the former MBNA better, they will make us better.  

And with that, Ken and I would love to take your questions.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Can you comment more on the capital for MBNA? From the time of the deal announcement, your predecessor said you would need more capital for the MBNA acquisition. How much more, say, in the Tier 1 ratio do you need to take that on?  

AL DE MOLINA: I think you should think about 8% as a guiding principle in Tier 1ratio for us. Don't consider it a bright line, either.  

I would not have a problem going below that for a very short period. Think of that as kind of the low end of the range with 83 or so, at the top end of the range.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: As it relates to your efficiency ratio, now that you got your target, where do you go from here? I mean, what's the long-term target? Are you there and so what do we have to look forward to?  

AL DE MOLINA: Well, I think if you have positive operating leverage that continues to put pressure on -- positive pressure on your efficiency ratio, so you'd expect to it drift down in line with how we grow the businesses.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: And then last question.  

Your deposits were down some for the quarter. I know there's some unique factors here. What do you think about deposit growth?  

AL DE MOLINA: Net-net if you look at all the deposit activity there was a reduction in CDs offset by increases everywhere else and so you had a net decrease just in the CD books.  

And if you think about the profitability of the deposit books in total, if you just compare to fed funds and look at the marginal costs, there's like $16 billion worth of NII that flows from there, against fed funds, only 1 billion of that is out of the CD book. It's the least profitable.  

And so what you're seeing there is the strategy that Liam is implementing, Liam McGee, and that I discussed with you last time, about trying to maximize the balance between profitability and market share.  

We expect deposit, we don't expect to lose share and we expect deposits to be growing kind of in the nominal GDP range, so, you know, 6, 7%, and we'd expect to do that as well, but if we didn't, it would be because of the execution of this strategy and we'd be clear with you on what happened when and how.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: A question to Ken.  

Ken, in recognition of the growth objectives as you articulated, how are we looking at maybe acquisition opportunities going forward? And have we completely ruled out a major acquisition? And what can we expect in terms of international expansion?  

The other question I have has to do with the corporate identity with MBNA. What are we looking at in terms of that as corporate identity?  

KEN LEWIS: Well, the last first, you mean what brand will we use? We'll use two brands, we'll use one brand called MBNA for the bank, for our bank customers, because they wouldn't want to be using, obviously, Bank of America.  

And then secondly, we'll change everything else to Bank of America. In fact, they had done a study about enhancing their brand and said that every time the studies came out, it was -- that Bank of America brand popped up. And so there was no debate over what brand to use. It was Bank of America.  

With regard to acquisitions, obviously we want a flawless execution on the MBNA transition. The real operational conversion is October. And so we'll be working -- be really planning, focused to get to that point, and then having a successful one, and so there's really nothing in our mind about acquisitions at this point.  

I had said before that I can't see an on the ground European acquisition because the growth rates there are not as good as they are in the U.S., and, therefore, I don't think you could make the arithmetic work.  

And then in Asia, we have no interest in buying a bank in Asia. We have actually a prohibition in China from being in the retail business because of our contract with CCB.  

So other than building out our capabilities in Europe and Asia on the wholesale side, I just don't see anything at the moment. Again, we never say never, but I do, in fact, think this could be a period of time very similar to that 1998 to 2003 time where we just executed and there weren't any major acquisitions. If something changed, it would be, it is not in my mind or I cannot see it at the moment.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: You talked a little bit about revenue growth being 69%. I was just wondering if you could do that same equation with MBNA included in it?  

AL DE MOLINA: Probably through the lower end of the range. So BAC stand-alone would be at the 6 to 9% at the lower end of the 6 to 9% range. With MBNA, it will be through that due to the margin compression that we see next year.  

I'm not prepared at this point to tell you exactly how much it will be shy of that, but all of that is embedded in the guidance that I gave you of neutral effect on EPS.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Just another question unrelated.  

Service charges, I guess those were hit by about 50 million non-recurring. I was just wondering if you could give us how comfortable you are with kind of long-term growth rate on service charges?  

And then also the expense growth rate, looked like you had about 50 million in non-recurring there as well.  

AL DE MOLINA: I think with regard to service charges you had some commercial in there that you should take out at 24, so decline from the quarter. The rest of it is within the consumer space, and as I tried to say in my comments, what I would do is I'd take the number you have, I wouldn't add back the special and I would use that as the base for '04.  

And the reason I wouldn't add it back is that you don't have a full quarter effect of some of the changes that we made in the '04 numbers so I would use the fourth quarter number and go from there. And we do expect going back to normal trends and that is within the 6 to 9%, or the 6% revenue guidance that we just gave you.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: [Inaudible question]  

AL DE MOLINA: The expense number, you'll have, it depends on which business you'll have. Certainly, more expense growth than you've had in the past because we don't have the Fleet integration in there, but you could still expect positive operating leverage. But unfortunately, the positive operating leverage will be on the low-end of the range of our expectations over time as well because you got to keep investing in your businesses and you've got to keep the [inaudible].  

So 3, 4%, that kind of number, and again, guidance and bottom EPS of low to mid single digits, and the net of all the MBNA ins and outs are nil. And we'll give you a trail going forward on the reporting of that. We'll break out card services so we'll be able to show you the impact of MBNA on the numbers that we did describe.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Al, you mentioned low to mid single-digit EPS growth. I guess the upper end of that would be slightly below the numbers in the MBNA presentation despite, I guess, going from $0.05 dilution to neutral. Other than the yield curve, as you kind of looked six months ago versus today, is there anything else in the numbers that maybe differ from what you thought?  

And then secondly if you could, maybe just extrapolate on MBNA's earnings in the fourth quarter? It looks like there was an options charge, but even ex that, they looked a bit, I think, below what at least I was expecting.  

AL DE MOLINA: I didn't do it so I don't remember exactly, but usually we use the IBIS estimates for the next year so the IBIS estimates must have come down from then until now and that's the reason for lower growth than what we used at the time we did the MBNA at a presentation. We can confirm that and get back with you if that's not the case, but I assume that is the case.  

Yes, in fact, EPS for MBNA would have been about $0.30. If you normalized for merge-related and bankruptcy would have been about $0.50.  

I don't know how that compared to your personal expectations. The fact is when you look at the second half of this year versus the second half of the year that we were contemplating at the time we did the MBNA transaction, it was actually slightly better, but just very slightly.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: On Slide 8, you show that the unit sales of credit cards were down about 10% year-over-year, meanwhile, you've had nice growth in-house, if you will. Could you shed a little bit more color on that and what you're expecting in terms of the actual unit sales for credit cards this year?  

KEN LEWIS: Well, I think unit sale trends will continue, there's no expectation of anything that would change in the baseline. But then you have to add on top of that, our ability to use the affinity strategy through the branch network and then what we do on marketing is an offset to that.  

There's direct mail and then there's the affinity expansion. We're optimistic, obviously, that that affinity expansion will help us grow revenues more and unit sales more than we have had.  

Only 12% of the MBNA client base has both a BAC and MBNA card. Of those that hold, that do not, that are in our footprint, the 75% of them are in our footprint and of those, something like 80% don't have a Bank of America product.  

There's ample opportunity now, it's a question of execution against that opportunity set. I don't want to give you a unit number but expect kind of baseline performance plus the annuity and we'll adjust whatever we want to adjust on the marketing and direct mail side.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Good morning.  

JP Morgan threw out a number in terms of estimated expenses associated with changes in the [non-payment] that resembled the numbers that they experienced in items of their increased provision associated with the bankruptcy law change. Can you talk about sort of the commonality of customer base with Citi and JP Morgan and what type of [inaudible] impact you're going to have on earnings?  

KEN LEWIS: It's hard enough to keep track of ours and keeping track of theirs as well. But I think part of it is that we had several phases of min pay, they wrapped it up into this one. I think that the answer lies somewhere in there, I don't think it lies in a different client base, I think it's just a difference in the timing of how we approached the issue, but I don't know for certain. I think it would take some more work. [Inaudible question] The question is if their client base is squeezed. You know, it's interesting to me, whenever I think about the min pay and bankruptcy issue. If you exclude people that just woke up one day and decided they were going to declare bankruptcy because it seemed like an opportune time because of the change in bankruptcy law, everyone else that's either wrapped up in that or the min pay was a charge-off waiting to happen.  

Because just a change in what your minimum pay requirement is, even though you can draw down and use cash, draw cash against your card, if that change drove you to a charge-off, it seems you were going to a charge-off at some point anyway. Same thing with bankruptcy.  

I think that the tightening of the law helps us in the long run with regard to bankruptcy. I think that the timing effect of min pay and bankruptcy is largely that, and we don't know for certain and won't know, is largely a timing event and I don't think it will change liquidity posture, certainly it hasn't changed purchase volume activity or anything else.  

We're seeing strong growth there, everything looks intact in our businesses, so we don't see any impact. I also can't reconcile our min pay versus bankruptcy to Citi and JP, unfortunately. Yes?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: In regard to the outlook for loan losses and presumably provision in the first half of the year, losses were running at about 900 million and then if you take out from this quarter the bankruptcy charges, you're a little higher than that, but mainly in other consumer. So I'm wondering if there's a story in other consumer and why otherwise you see the charge-offs, you know, running, you said, 5 billion, so about a billion and a quarter per quarter?  

KEN LEWIS: It was -- the fact is, you've got the seasoning of the bank card portfolio that's having an effect, and what I'd say is that there is no surprise, just so you don't consider that increase a description of a decline in credit quality in the consumer base, they are performing as underwritten, they're just performing as underwritten, which means you had the balance before and now you have the charge-off now. So that's part of the description.  

In addition you've got in the '05 numbers, you've got recoveries that you won't have going forward. You had the cleanup of the allocations and so forth. So I think that using the fourth quarter as described is a prudent way to look at '06. Yes, on the phone?  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

KEN LEWIS: Are we taking one from the phone, are we?  

OPERATOR: We'll take our first question from the site of Nancy Bush from NAB Research. Go ahead, please.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys.  

If you can just give us a little bit of color around a couple of expense line items, I think you said in occupancy that there was a write-off of some space. Can you tell us how much that was?  

And in the salary, salaries were up slightly from the third quarter in spite of the trading losses, et cetera. If you could just give some color there.  

AL DE MOLINA: Think of the occupancy issue as a penny. And with regard to the salaries from third to fourth quarter, or the personnel costs in total from third to fourth quarter, one of the advantages of having a diversified business in the capital market space is that when you have good performance in one place, you can subsidize others.  

And during the fourth quarter, we came under some competitive pressures there where in the businesses we did well in, we didn't have enough to offset or to subsidize the others because we didn't have some of the pieces that I mentioned to you in my speech. So you had some upward pressure there.  

Going forward, I think you'll see the relationship of compensation expense and revenues to stay in line in the global corporate and investment bank and hopefully that should answer your question. I don't think there was anything else in those numbers.  

NANCY BUSH: Okay.  

And you also mentioned that you expected positive operating leverage to be at the low-end of the range. Could you just remind us what the range has been over the past couple of years?  

AL DE MOLINA: Well, I mean, the range over the past couple of years has gone all the way to 11 so I don't know what you want to use as the top end of the range. But certainly, 2 to 4, 5% operating leverage, I mean, 5 would be on the outside, and, you know, in a 5% operating leverage environment, you would wonder why you wouldn't invest more.  

NANCY BUSH: Okay.  

AL DE MOLINA: So I think 2% is low. 5% is high. Kevin's going to tell me --  

Oh, thank you. We have an associate program called, "Rewarding Success," which is in lieu of some other programs that we've had in the past related to the granting of options broadly, and that was in that sequence as well.  

And how much was that, Kevin? But that was in the, we don't know what the number was, but that was in that line item as well, Nancy.  

NANCY BUSH: That was in the salaries line item?  

AL DE MOLINA: Uhm-hmm.  

NANCY BUSH: All right. Thank you.  

AL DE MOLINA: Thank you, Nancy.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of Jon Balkind with Kelton Fox-Pitt. Go ahead, please.  

JOHN BALKIND, ANALYST, FOX-PITT KELTON: Thanks. Good morning. Just two quick questions. One, a follow-up on credit.  

Could you just talk about the run rate of B of A, stand-alone managed losses going into next year? It seemed to be higher than expected in the fourth quarter ex bankruptcies.  

And then two, talk a little bit about marketing spend which was down somewhat materially linked quarter.  

AL DE MOLINA: Yes, we're going into next year with a 6% managed loss rate, and I don't see a major change for that coming on the BAC side. So use that going forward.  

With regard to the marketing spend, this is where the trade-off goes. We're going to try and generate the accounts in the cheapest place possible, and that was that long dissertation around kind of the affinity program in the branches, the online efforts, et cetera. But there will be direct-mail marketing but that's the least effective and most expensive. So we'll try and do better in other places before we gravitate there.  

KEN LEWIS: We also usually cut back marketing expenses in the fourth quarter because there's so much clutter, you don't get the bang for the buck.  

AL DE MOLINA: Yes, I didn't know if your question was an '05 or an '06 question, but that's correct, and towards the end of each year, you'll see us pull back on some of the marketing expenses because we don't want to throw good money away.  

JOHN BALKIND: Sounds good. Thanks, guys.  

AL DE MOLINA: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of Ed Najarian with Merrill Lynch. Go ahead.  

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, Al.  

AL DE MOLINA: Good morning, Ed.  

ED NAJARIAN: Three quick questions.  

First, can you give us any kind of pro forma tangible E to A with MBNA included just so we know where you are now that MBNA is part of your company?  

Second, you talked to some extent about deposit rates, but when we compare your money market savings and now account rates on a weighted average basis to some of your principle competitors like Wachovia and Wells, it looks like you're running about 50 to 70 basis points under where they were in the fourth quarter, and I'm wondering if you have any comments on to the extent that you feel you may need to catch that up over time, and how quickly?  

And then third, I wonder if you had any comments on the $7.5 billion AOCI loss that was up from 6.5 billion in the third quarter.  

And also the footnotes of the average balance sheet showed that the impact of derivatives on NII went up to a $225 million loss this quarter. And I wonder if you can just comment on those two things and to what extent you expect them to have an earnings impact or not in '06. Thanks.  

AL DE MOLINA: With regard to deposit pricing strategy, we will probe and test and pull back and modify and we'll do that by market and we have different competitors and different markets. And I wouldn't read too much into the differential between us and someone else. But our goal again is not to lose share and that is the way we'll operate.  

But the numbers that you might be comparing to are very broad and we have a lot of different competitors in a lot of different places. So difficult question to answer, but I don't expect a huge catch-up to ensue.  

With regard to the OCI number, we've heard that -- I've explained that before. It's a big number.  

The change can be described by the change in rates from the end of last year, times of duration, times the size of the portfolio, and you'll get about a $2 billion number which is what happened pretax. That should not have been a surprise to you.  

With regard to the effect of derivatives on the net interest income stream, I've cautioned in the past not to look at any one item in isolation. What you described just now was a significant increase in the cost, all in the context of a significant increase in core net interest income so that kind of exemplifies the issue that I was describing.  

I don't remember, there was one more piece to the question. I didn't follow the ratio you asked me for.  

ED NAJARIAN: The third question was just if you could give us a pro forma tangible equity to assets ratio now that MBNA is part of your company?  

AL DE MOLINA: We'll get Kevin to give you that. I don't think it has a major impact, but we'll get Kevin to get you that.  

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Well, when you announced the deal, you indicated that the $5 billion cash piece would have a pretty big impact on that number.  

AL DE MOLINA: Were you talking about that managed tangible where you include everything that's securitized but not anything that's off balance?  

ED NAJARIAN: No, no, no, I'm just talking about--  

AL DE MOLINA: Straight tangibles.  

ED NAJARIAN: Straight tangible, you're at 424 at the end of the quarter and now just wondering what that might be or close to what that would be on a pro forma basis.  

AL DE MOLINA: I think the big impact was on the managed tangible if I recall, but we'll go back and we'll get it for you.  

ED NAJARIAN: Okay.  

And then with respect to the AOCI loss and the derivatives-related question, so you're comfortable with where you are in that you don't think that that poses material risk of any kind of restructuring the balance sheet or any moves to try to reduce that unrealized loss?  

AL DE MOLINA: Totally comfortable, don't see any risk of us doing anything to restructure that, no.  

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Go ahead, please.  

AL DE MOLINA: Hi, Betsy.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. Thanks. Good morning. Just a couple of questions on the card side.  

In the provision for cards, obviously elevated by the bankruptcies, do you, was that provision that you took for this quarter reflective of the impact just from the filings that you received so far by the end of the fourth quarter, or have you made estimates for the entire impact on the portfolio estimating what is likely to hit in the first quarter as well?  

AL DE MOLINA: If I understood the question, the way we compute the effect on the provision is to look at the charge-offs that will come from those, and then determine what we think is just an acceleration from the period that we have already provided for and reduced it for that. So you get the net number and that's what was in the provision and that was $143 million or whatever it was on that particular piece.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So you could see some impact in the first quarter if you are continuing to receive bankruptcy notices?  

AL DE MOLINA: To the extent that we do not, with that any of those assumptions were incorrect, you could see an impact, I will tell you and you already know, I'm sure, that bankruptcy filings have slowed to --  

BETSY GRASECK: Right.  

AL DE MOLINA: -- to a trickle so far. But we'll see how things develop.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay.  

And then just separately, as KRB obviously has closed, could you just update us on your thoughts on how you're planning to fund KRB's securitized assets and your thoughts on integrating them into the on-balance sheet position versus keeping them in a securitized form?  

AL DE MOLINA: As I said in my remarks, we'll keep you posted as we do things. Right now, think of MBNA business as usual.  

We think that the net cost of bringing them back because of the capital tie-up is larger than the economic cost of doing the securitization so don't consider any change yet. We will come back with you when we do change our program.  

And so I'm clear about what I'm thinking about there, it's not to then say we're going to put the securitizations back, it's to say here's how we're going to minimize the cost of that. There may be things that we can take in terms of allowing the selling the B and C pieces for instance and taking some of the AAA's back or whatever, and we'll tell you what we're doing when we do it, but don't think of any change for now, just business as usual, take MBNA's actions and our actions and that's where we are right now.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. And we have a question from the site of Lori Appelbaum with Goldman Sachs. Go ahead, please.  

LORI APPELBAUM, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, Al. My question relates to the credit card charge-off rate in the quarter.  

Why did the change in bankruptcy laws have a larger impact on Bank of America's card losses versus other large issuers with Bank of America card losses going up about 375 basis points sequentially while most other large issuers went up over 100%, and your losses are now over 9% and everyone else's are closer to six?  

AL DE MOLINA: Again, Lori, I'd leave that to you to analyze us against some of our competitors. It's difficult to say. People include different things at different points in time. I really don't have an answer for you.  

LORI APPELBAUM: Was there some acceleration of charge-offs apart from the bankruptcy law change?  

AL DE MOLINA: No acceleration other than the bankruptcy change, no. You might, I mean, you do have the seasoning. We were growing faster than the peer groups, so you could have that effect as well. Not having the numbers in front of me, I can't give you an answer, unfortunately.  

LORI APPELBAUM: Okay, thanks.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Could you just elaborate on the outlook for the net interest income? I guess, again, B of A stand-alone, how are you positioned for potential changes in the yield curve? I mean, about how much risk is there of, really disappointing there, and how much potential benefit depending on changes?  

And also, could you elaborate on why trading was so poor in the quarter? And you seem confident that that's abnormal, is going to improve. Why do you have some confidence there?  

AL DE MOLINA: Well, let me take the net interest income question first.  

I think that the guidance that we've given you is reasonable. The risk position is in your book and the bubble charts hadn't changed that much from November, slightly more liability sensitive, have a very high level of confidence around the number we give you because of history in managing through that.  

As we get into the year, we're going to start to give you managed net interest income and the bubble charts on a managed basis, too, so that will give you more information to assess it. The risk, I think, is reasonably represented there and we feel good about the guidance we just gave you.  

With regard to trading, I don't know that I would characterize it as just abnormal and throw it out. I think that probably first quarter and third quarter were probably too high a run rate for us. Second and fourth were too low. I think the declines from the third to the fourth quarter were due to, you know, market factors and I think we can market perform here.  

I wasn't trying to give you an overly confident picture there, I was just trying to be factual that we had a decline, I think it was largely in line where we can compare on an apples-to-apples basis, and therefore the only prediction I could give you there with regard to where it's going is that we'd hope to be largely in line on a line-by-line basis, or a little better given our investment.  

So that's not to say that the quarterly results weren't disappointing. They were, obviously. We don't like to not hit the estimate. It's not to say that the overall results for the year were not somewhat disappointing in that I thought personally that we could do better than what we had committed to do as part of the investment program.  

In essence what we did was what we committed to do as part of the investment program, which is to generate as much in revenues as we do in additional expense and I thought we could do a little bit better than that.  

So going forward, I'm not trying to be overly optimistic, I think it's a work in progress. It takes time, feel good about where we are, feel good about the people we've brought on, and we would hope to market pro forma better going forward.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Could you give us an update on the CCB investment and the partnership so far? I know the market's already accorded you a multi-billion dollar unrealized gain, but is the partnership performing in line with your expectations and can we expect any income or cash flow contributions from that investment in the next 1 to 3 years?  

AL DE MOLINA: Certainly, you're going to expect dividend flows from it as soon as [we] declare them. With regard to the paper, Mark, this is a long-term investment and we don't look, in fact, I don't know what the number is today.  

You know, that's only relevant if you decide to take that. So I don't work myself up too much about that.  

With regard to the partnership, I'd say across the board in every place that we've been dealing with them, we've been satisfied that we picked the right partner. And that was really the most important element of this decision, was that, not the short-term impact on earnings, just I heard Ken -- I wasn't very involved in this at the time, but I heard Ken say a dozen times that this is an investment for the next generation and that's what it is. So marketing it to market doesn't do a lot for us.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: [Inaudible question]  

AL DE MOLINA: 184, I think.  

OPERATOR: We have a question from the site of Chris Mutascio with Credit Suisse. Go ahead, please.  

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning, Al.  

Looking at your appendix, I see the credit card revenue was reduced by about $71 million?  

AL DE MOLINA: Actually, Kevin's telling me I read my speech wrong, that I said 500 per quarter in equity investments. I meant to say 300 to 350 per quarter.  

What did I say? 300 to 500? Thank you, Kevin. Sorry, folks. Hold on.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Two questions. One for you and one for you.  

On, it looks like you bought credit protection in the quarter. Did you actually buy credit protection in the quarter or did the value of your default swaps just gain in value this quarter?  

AL DE MOLINA: Actually, we had a net loss during the quarter, and actually, I think we had a net decline in the notionals as well as we put on indexes to pay for some of it. The underlying names are still as well protected as they were, I think the overall portfolio is down just a touch.  

We lost money on the general spread tightening in the positions that we were on. I shouldn't say general, in the positions that we were in. A lot of the autos were part of that.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Ken, you got permission from the fed this quarter on real estate investment. Could you talk about what your aspirations are for that and why it was important where you'd like to see that 3 to 5 years?  

KEN LEWIS: I would characterize that as much to do about almost nothing, I guess. It was very specific. This was the approval from the OCC to delve into commercial real estate, I guess, but it was very specific to a hotel property that we're putting on our property.  

We had originally planned to put it on this hotel on the property when we built our building in 1992, I think it was. And so we've gotten around to building a Ritz Carlton on that piece of property and that's it.  

There's no real intention to be in the business. Lending to it is risky enough. We certainly don't want to be in it.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: How much earnings are you giving up this year because of the flatter yield curve? I'm looking at Slide 28 and it says that the yield curve flattened since the third quarter, you'd get hurt and that's kind of what's happened with the yield curve, it's gotten flatter there. And what do you define as a normal yield curve?  

AL DE MOLINA: What do I define as a normal yield curve? It's different than what I would have defined a year and a half ago because I never would have thought what happened, happened. What was going to happen, happened.  

Let me look at the slide you're referring to. So what's your question on, with regard to--  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: The basic question is how much in earnings are you giving up this year because of the flatter yield curve because your guidance is less than what it was at the time of the MBNA acquisition and it's also below your long-term growth target? Is that really fully due to the flatter yield curve? And if you had to quantify, if you had a normal yield curve this year, your expectations would be, say, $0.20 higher or $0.30 higher. What would it be?  

AL DE MOLINA: It is not the full impact because you've also got the trend towards a normalization of credit costs and so you have that as an issue as well. From experience, without looking at specific metrics and models, from experience I think you could expect in normal periods from us 6% net interest income growth as a benchmark. To the extent that we get three, you see how much that is.  

So it's, you know, 340 on 30 billion so it's $900 million, which is a reasonable estimate. It's in, the lions share of the flattening is in the run rates. So that's what's affecting it during the year, now you're not going to grow from there.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Is there anything you can do or have done to further protect yourself from a flat yield curve or an inverted yield curve?  

AL DE MOLINA: Anything you can do, and we may do something depending on our views of where things are going, but, anything you do is only temporary anyway. Eventually, your positions mature and so, you know, flat and/or inverted curves are not good for our business. Everyone knows that. And low rates are not good for our business and most people know that.  

And so a combination of those two create the headwind that you're talking about. I wouldn't expect that to be a long-standing issue. I think it probably means a couple of percentage, a couple, three percentage points in net interest income growth. A question from the phone?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our question from the site of Chris Mutascio with Credit Suisse.  

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Hey, Al, can you hear me?  

AL DE MOLINA: Yes, sir.  

CHRIS MUTASCIO: I got cut off about two minutes ago.  

I was looking through the appendix of your presentation this morning, and I guess credit card revenue in total was impacted about $71 million from the bankruptcy impact. If I add that back to the quarter, it still doesn't look like you got that seasonal third quarter to fourth quarter pop that you usually get to a good degree in fourth quarter. So is there anyone else in there in the credit card fees that I should be taking into account for the quarter?  

AL DE MOLINA: There's a little bit in there due to securitizations coming back on, and there was a waiver of the -- when someone has an over limit fee three times, we write that off and that was 34 million, so.  

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. So the 34 million you talked about earlier goes in the credit card fee line item, not service charges?  

AL DE MOLINA: That's correct.  

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. Great. Thank you.  

AL DE MOLINA: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We also have a question from the site of James Mitchell with Buckingham. Go ahead, please.  

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Good morning.  

Not to beat a dead horse on the credit card loss rates going forward, bankruptcies, since the new rule passed, have been hovering around 80% or more lower than where they've averaged the last three years. So if you have a charge-off policy of 60 days on bankruptcy, shouldn't you have a pretty good window at least of first quarter loss rates in the card business?  

I mean, obviously who knows where we go by the end of the year. But shouldn't we have a pretty good positive view of loss rates in cards given current bankruptcies? Thanks.  

AL DE MOLINA: You know, as I mentioned in my comments, we normally have very good visibility in the card business. It's just that right now with so much uncertainty around how much of all of these changes were accelerations versus changes and accelerations from what period versus changes, it's a little bit more murky. So I don't want to venture out there and be too, give you too much confidence that we have the normal visibility we have because actually, you're comment's correct. We normally would have pretty good visibility to it and be able to tell you, but at this point it's a little bit more uncertain than it has been.  

KEVIN STITT: Just one more question, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from John Pandtle with Raymond James. Go ahead, please.  

JOHN PANDTLE, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Good morning.  

Could you discuss your decision to bring the credit card processing to shift it in-house, essentially? Moving it to KRB? And then, was there any impact, I guess, to, you know, from that on your earnings guidance the change that you've delineated this morning for '06?  

AL DE MOLINA: The answer to the latter part of the question is yes, and that's embedded in all of the things that made our guidance going forward different from where it was before.  

With regard to the decision to come in, it's a question of a combination of cost, quality and strategic positioning, flexibility, and the team looked at that and came to a unanimous view that that was the right thing to do and so they did it. And getting back to the financial side of it, yes, there was an impact and it is in the numbers that, or the guidance change that we just gave you.  

JOHN PANDTLE: Thank you.  

KEN LEWIS: I will add that we're going to be looking, given the size and scale that we have, we're going to be looking at everything we do, everything that we've outsourced all in the same line. And say given who we are now, did we make the right decision and so over this year and in 2007, we might very well bring some things that we've outsourced back in because we can do them more efficiently and more effectively.  

KEVIN STITT: With that, thanks everybody, appreciate it.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060206e21n000b6
  


 HD
 Q3  2005  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,375 words
   PD
19 October 2005
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

KEVIN STITT, IR EXECUTIVE, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt, Bank of America's Investor Relations Executive. Before Al de Molina, our Chief Financial Officer, starts this morning, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial condition, results and expectations; and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures in the industry or legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses. And for additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. Let me now turn the meeting over to Al.  

   TD
AL DE MOLINA, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Kevin. It's really great to be here with you this morning. And thanks for being with us. I believe I know most of you and for those that I don't, I'm sure I will be getting to know you. And those that I do know, I seem to be getting to know them better day by day, so I look forward to that.  

Today I would like to separate the earnings call into a couple of pieces. I would first like to describe corporate results overall, kind of elaborating on what we issued this morning. Second, I would like to briefly discuss individual businesses and highlight some of the third quarter that I think might be of interest to you. Third, I will go into detail in certain areas that need a little bit more clarification such as balance sheet positioning, credit quality, Capital Management and some final comments on the Fleet integration. And then finally, we will open it up with Q&A.  

We provided you with a slide package that you could use as I go through my results. The slide will either highlight my comments or offer additional information.  

As you know, earnings for the third quarter were $4.1 billion, or $1.02 per fully diluted share, $1.04 if you exclude $0.02 of merger and restructuring charges. This is an increase of 9% from results a year ago. Earnings this quarter are down 4% from the second, as lower securities gains, higher provision and higher expense offset robust revenue growth.  

If I had to describe the quarter in one sentence, I would say robust revenue growth across the board with credit costs moving off of recent lows. Personally, I would describe it as a good quarter for Al de Molina to do his first conference call because I think the quarter is good, from a quality standpoint, and the drivers of the performance are relatively clear.  

Revenue in the quarter rose more than 4% on a linked basis versus the second quarter and up 16% from a year ago. The 16% growth from a year ago included a modest 1.7% growth in net interest income. Excluding the impact of trading-related net interest income, the growth is 3.6%, in line with guidance given. It's important to distinguish between the two and I will do so in my discussions, going forward. Trading-related net interest income is more appropriately discussed in combination with trading activity, not with the core balance sheet.  

Versus a year ago, noninterest income increased $1.9 billion or a dramatic 39%. Including increases from the recovery in the mortgage business of $430 million from a loss of last year and the equity investment gains of $448 million increase. Excluding these two categories, though, still gives you impressive growth year-over-year in excess of 21%. So revenue growth of 16%, expense growth in the 5% area, give you the strong operating leverage that you see before you.  

Revenue this quarter, compared to second quarter, reflected increases of 3% in net interest income, again excluding trading-related, an even more impressive 27% growth in noninterest income. These increases were partially offset by a drop in trading-related net interest income.  

Equity investment gains this quarter totaled $668 million, an increase of $176 million from the second quarter. The second quarter had $278 million in gains from whole loans where we have none in the third.  

Excluding the equity investments and loan sales, both of which are more periodic, noninterest income grew an impressive 10% from the second quarter. Investment banking grew 21%, service charges, 8%, card income, 6%, and trading at [ground] profits rounded out the increase. Trading admittedly rebounded from a weak second quarter, with total trading revenue up 19% from the second quarter and 37% from a year ago.  

Flipping to expenses, noninterest expense increased almost 4% from the second quarter, driven by personnel expenses, reflecting performance-based incentives and our continued investment in our businesses. The efficiency ratio improved to 48.4%, excluding merger and restructuring charges.  

Turning to the balance sheet. Average consumer loans grew a strong $14 billion from the second quarter. Organic loan growth was approximately 4% after you factor in $4 billion of growth in residential mortgages managed out of the asset liability category -- function, $3 billion of loans purchased from GMAC and $1.6 billion of credit card receivables returning to the balance sheet securitizations. That organic growth was driven by home equity, credit card and auto finance.  

Average commercial loans increased almost $5 billion, or 3% from the second quarter, driven by all of our commercial businesses across the spectrum from small business to middle-market to real estate to large corporate. Deposit levels on a period-end basis were down $9 billion, or 1%, driven mainly by the drop in commercial deposits. Although national deposit levels won't be available until November, we believe that the combined domestic deposit levels of Bank of America and MBNA at September 30 are under the deposit cap threshold of 10%.  

Provision for credit losses was $1.16 billion, slightly above the charge-offs of $1.15 billion in Q2. This is an increase in provision of $284 million versus the second quarter.  

The Tier 1 ratio improved to 8.21%. During the quarter we repurchased 10.6 million shares, resulting in a net reduction of approximately 3.6 million shares after the impact of option issuances. Even after you take into account higher than expected results in an area like equity investment and better results to the recoveries like trading, you clearly come to the conclusion that performance this quarter was very strong.  

Let me quickly then turn to the individual businesses and provide some quick highlights. You have more detailed information in the financial supplements this time on the businesses in case you want to model them on a business unit level.  

Global Consumer and Small Business is the first. This is a business that was built over 20 years and refined and honed over the last five. And it had another great quarter, earning $1.9 billion, which represented 46% of total earnings. Revenue growth this quarter versus second quarter was dominated by increases of $128 million in net interest income and $142 million in service charges. Total average retail deposits, including Premier and Business Banking were up 1.5% from second quarter levels.  

Compared to last year, though, a different picture emerges, as net interest income declined by $76 million. This decline was partially due to the lower rate environment flatter curve, as well as transfers to Premier. Our consumer businesses take the brunt in terms of rate factors when you have a lower and flatter curve as deposits are invested at lower levels and spreads. This decline however, was more than offset by increases in service charges of $227 million and card income of $253 million. In addition, a loss of approximately $200 million last year, driven by write-downs in M. S. R.'s, was turned to a positive $229 million this year in mortgage banking. Even excluding the mortgage turn around, noninterest income grew 19% from last year.  

Global Consumer and Small Business Banking exhibited terrific expense control by keeping expense levels almost flat with last year. This was obviously helped by the Fleet integration. And as a result, net income was up 25% from last year.  

Total sales remain strong, as total sales across all channels totaled 8.5 million units in the quarter, up 10% from last year. More specifically, new retail checking accounts totaled 635,000 in the quarter, up slightly from the second quarter and up 20% from a year ago.  

E-commerce is a distribution channel where we continue to build on our number one position. Sales from e-commerce contributed 12% of the total franchise sales for the quarter, up almost 80% over last year.  

Finally, debit card purchase volumes were up 3% from second quarter and 28% from last year, while consumer credit card purchase volumes were up 5% and 10% respectively. Again, we are far and away the debit card leader.  

Global Business and Financial Services earned $1.1 billion or 20% of total corporate earnings. This is down 10% from the second quarter and 7% from last year as good revenue growth was more than offset by an increased provision as they move towards a more normalized credit environment. Revenue rose 6% from the second quarter and 13% from last year with noninterest income growth broadly throughout all the businesses and across most categories.  

Another promising trend is that average loan growth was quite strong at 4% versus the second quarter, reflecting good to strong increases in almost every business. Period-end deposits for GBFS dropped almost $5 billion, as we chose not to compete aggressively for low margin commercial deposits.  

Global Capital Markets and Investment Banking, my old business, earned $434 million, 10% of corporate earnings in the second quarter, down 3% from last year -- from last quarter and 8% from last year. Attractive revenue growth of 10% from the second quarter and 12% from last year was offset by increased expenses of 13% and 14% respectively, associated with the build-out of the business.  

Trends in investment banking were quite positive, showing increases of 21% versus the second quarter and 17% versus last year. Trading-related revenues, as I said earlier, including net interest income, showed good growth of 19% and 37% respectively.  

You may recall that our goal this year was to offset the $675 million of build-out expenses with $675 million of increased revenues. As we said before, we did not spend the full $675, but we covered everything we spent with revenues. So the financial obligation or expectation of self-funding was in fact met so far this year, as expected, before the year.  

We believe that the build-out of our capital markets capabilities as well as our corporate coverage model are of critical importance to our universal bank strategy. Additionally, we were really pleased with the quality of the build-out as well. Given the strategic fit of the build-out and the success of its first phase, you should expect no change in emphasis going forward. However, beginning in 2006, this investment will be expected to provide increased revenue and earnings, not just revenues.  

Global Wealth and Investment Management earned $583 million in the third quarter, 14% of corporate earnings, down slightly from the second quarter, but up 22% from a year ago. Versus a year ago, revenue increased 14% while expenses grew 5%, driving revenue growth with additional customer migration into Premier and higher net interest income from organic loan growth. Versus second quarter levels, remain flat.  

Growth in net interest income and recurring Asset Management fees was offset by lower tax preparation fees and other non-recurring items in the second quarter. Assets under management increased approximately $15 billion from the second quarter to $457 billion with the increase roughly between net inflows and market appreciation. Within Premier, average loans increased 7% from the second quarter, while average deposits increased 3%.  

Switching away now from the business units, I wanted to talk a little bit about net interest income. I wanted to spend some time beginning the process of providing you with more transparency around the issue of interest rate risk management. We know that you want more information around this issue and we are willing to provide it.  

We consider interest rate risk management at Bank of America not only a core competency, but a competitive advantage. Therefore, our aim is to get you comfortable with what we do. To that end, your materials contain several new items. First, in the financial supplement you will find an analysis of trends in net interest income as well as net interest income excluding trading-related NII since the Fleet acquisition.  

As you know, we don't manage to the net interest yield. We think it's an inaccurate way to assess the performance of the balance sheet. It is particularly difficult to analyze us as we continually move on and off balance sheet to achieve our risk management objectives. However, we understand that there are some investors who focus on it more than we do. Of those investors, we would simply ask thank you at least focus on the net interest yield excluding trading. This represents a view, while still imperfect, is at least directionally correct in its signal and we will update this schedule going forward quarterly.  

A second addition to the slide is an executive summary of our interest rate risk sensitivities. This bubble chart shows a subset of the scenarios we use to assess our risks and is similar to the summary we discussed internally at the executive management level. These charts, again, show the risk if we do nothing.  

Important for you to understand is that risk is from the forward curves and that forward curves provide the basis of our guidance to you. I think this may be an area of some confusion. The guidance we give you about future net interest income is based largely on interest rates reflected in the forward curve. In other words, we have included the impact of curve changes that is imbedded in the forward curve in our guidance. Our measurement of rate risk is then based on deviations from the forward curve. This may seem subtle, but it's critical to your understanding in this area of what we are telling and what the risks are. We will provide these charts for you going forward quarterly, so that you can see rates implicit in the forward curve and the sensitivities and then make your own judgments.  

A third addition is an average balance sheet with the impact of derivatives on rates and yields isolated. As you know, GAAP requires that we account for these activities in the rates and yields of the hedged items. We do that in the normal financial information we provide. This information -- this additional information we are giving you, will have value in your determination of what's occurring at the customer asset and liability levels.  

However, I would caution you in advance that you should not view the derivative results in a vacuum or see it as a measure of the efficacy of the risk management process. We always transact with both cash markets and derivative markets in minds and often in combination. The only way to assess the effectiveness of the process is holistically, in the context of risk run over quarters and years, not months. This additional information should help you in your analysis, however.  

Switching over to capital, a couple of words. We focus on Tier 1 as our primary measure. During the quarter it increased 15 basis points to 8.21%, and we intend over time to manage it up somewhat from here. However, we feel no rush to get there. So we have the capacity to continue investing in our businesses and expect to that and to continue repurchasing shares and we continue to expect to that. Importantly, share repurchases are viewed as a residual of all of our strategies, not a strategy itself. After we provide for capital adequacy, dividend and business growth, we view the balance as available for repurchases. Our other ratios, incidentally, were either flat or improved during the quarter as well.  

Turning over to credit quality. As I've mentioned, provision for credit losses approximately matched our net charge-offs. This is largely coincidental since we have differing dynamics in different parts of the business. Commercial net charge-off during the quarter increased to $239 million from the second quarter, driven mainly by $209 million in charge-offs related to domestic airlines, most of which had been previously provided. During the quarter, rate improvement in commercial credit quality slowed. Going forward, we believe commercial net charge-offs will increase as we move off of recent lows.  

During the quarter, we increased the consumer allowance by $221 million due to credit card securitizations returning on the balance sheet, consumer card growth and seasoning and the addition of loans purchased from GMAC. In addition, we also established a reserve of $50 million for Katrina exposure and released, I think it's approximately $80 million in reserves, due to the improvement in Argentina.  

In the fourth quarter, we expect meaningfully higher credit card charge-offs related to increased bankruptcy filings in the card business. The key question there is how much of that is simply an acceleration of losses that would occur in the future.  

Switching to Fleet integration. As most of you know, we are in the final stages of the Fleet integration and has gone as well as any integration we've done, in fact maybe anyone has done. This summer, 6 million retail accounts were converted to the model bank platform, involving 21 million customer records. This was the last major hurdle before calling it a successful effort.  

We opened approximately 380,000 net new checking accounts in the northeast over the past six quarters. Of all the accomplishments, achieving customer growth during the integration was the most impressive and it's reflective of the efforts of the associates at Bank of America and how they approach the customer and the discipline with which they use to do integrations. We still have one more quarter of Fleet-related merger charges associated with some clean-up projects, but they should be in the range it has been over the past two quarters.  

Before turning to Q&A, let me summarize by emphasizing our strong results and a good clean quarter. Our businesses are fairing quite well. Global Consumer and Small Business is continuing to build on its dominant share position, continuing to build around the customer in a way that optimizes the balance between marketshare and profitability. Momentum is good and the business has been able to overcome the headwinds of the yield curve and some credit normalization quite nicely. Expense control is excellent in this business. We are integrating some aspects of our Capital Markets business with our consumer product areas. While production out of our branches has been great, we are starting to gain significant momentum in the e-commerce channel. A key issue for this business has been and will continue to be, managing the impact of technology on the balance between distribution channels.  

Global Business and Financial Services also has momentum going for them. This team is working on the integration with the team from Global Capital Markets and Investment Banking with an eye towards exploiting the many areas of potential synergies in bringing the capital markets to the middle-market, small business and consumer in a very, very different way than anyone has done before.  

Results in Global Capital Markets and Investment Banking have been good with regard to the build-up. Some of the early and obvious fixes have occurred. These businesses are now positioned for growth. The challenge will be how we use all the competitive edges that Bank of America brings to this business to drive higher and better quality earnings and earnings growth. We continue to believe that we can achieve a number one position in the debt markets in the U.S. There's also considerable progress that can be made in equity and M&A and in the market side of the business, internationally as well.  

In Global Wealth and Investment Management, the addition of Premier has and will continue to provide a greater degree of list. The model for Premier will be largely as a financial advisor providing advice and product in an asset allocation framework, rather than in a traditional brokerage model. We are quite happy with the progress we are making on the Asset Management side through Columbia Management Group.  

So if you step away and go to the 50,000-foot level, you have this consumer business which was built -- the brunt of which was built over a twenty-year period, which has been refined over the last four or five. Dominant share, two of the most important areas, debit card and online banking; I think we have something like 50% of share of bill payments nationally, the next closest debit credit card competitor is half our level; dominant share in that business and starting to coordinate with some of the others.  

In the Global Business and Financial Services Business, good solid business with a great franchise, looking for ways to reinvent itself for better growth. That was the -- in fact, the impetus behind putting the Global Capital Markets and Global Business Services businesses together a couple months ago in my last job. Those are the two strongest. Then you have two-weaker businesses that are positioned a little more weakly, Capital Markets and Investment Banking is one and GWIM is the other. You are seeing steps that we are taking to support those businesses.  

The empiricals are the $675 million investment in Global Capital Markets Business last year to help that business make all the other businesses better, as well as it's business. Another empirical is improving the GWIM business, is the movement of the Premier customer base in order to provide a customer base for them to distribute their asset allocation exercising strategy.  

You are seeing the fact that all of our businesses and the Company itself are pursuing cross-business and organic growth strategies. In my mind, the more successful we are in identifying and exploiting these opportunities, the more successful we will be in differentiating our performance from the competition.  

Although my time was limited today, I will be making an effort over the next several months to meet with investors and discuss one-on-one with you what's on your minds. And I look forward to meeting with you. With that, I would love to open it up for questions.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Two questions. Could you expand a little bit on the Katrina exposure and the [INAUDIBLE - speaker interrupted] -- ?  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: -- what you are doing in terms of emerging markets area? At one time I thought you were decreasing the exposure there, but recently in the third quarter you did make an investment there. Could you talk about just what's happening there and how do you see the outlook there for that emerging market business?  

AL DE MOLINA: Sure. With regard to Katrina, remember that our franchise -- our physical franchise in consumer business is not present in the principal areas affected, but we do have national businesses that have exposure there, principally the mortgage business and the auto business. We went throughout looking at all the exposures there, looking at the exposures within the affected areas and coming up with a range. It is really, really a rough estimate of the range, but we felt that we'd surely, think that at least $50 million was an indicated reserve level. We will see how it goes from there. We will refine those estimates. But remember, our physical presence is not in those three states.  

With regard to the emerging market strategy, I assume the investment you are talking about is the Chinese investment which has gotten a good bit of press. I think that is a long-term investment directed at being part of an economy that's growing, the fastest growing economy now and probably will be for a good bit of time, so it really is a strategic investment and we will see where all that plays out. In other areas we retrenched, where we did not feel like we had important positions we actually sold those positions and we saw that action both in Mexico and in Argentina. That's basically that.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Just want to say thank you for the all increased disclosure --  

AL DE MOLINA: Now I'm going to make you work.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: -- particularly on the net interest margin. I was just wondering if you could -- last quarter you provided some guidance on future net interest income going into the second half. I'm wondering if you could touch on the fourth quarter now? And then also, second unrelated question after that.  

AL DE MOLINA: With regard to net interest income going forward, we expect a flattish fourth quarter, a flattish first quarter, which is not unusual and then trending up from there. We will give you an idea of how much we'll be trending up from there when we do annual guidance in January. But I would say that you should expect similar patterns to what you saw this year, in terms of growth.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: The second question is just on the managed card business -- net charge-offs came down, delinquencies went up. I was just wondering if you could gauge for us in the fourth quarter what you might expect in terms of losses there?  

AL DE MOLINA: Anything that happens in the fundamental close in the fourth quarter with regard to card is going to be grossly overshadowed by what happens in response to the bankruptcy law change. The spike that we seem continued to show higher and higher levels of potential losses into the fourth quarter and the key question becomes then, how much of those losses that would have been reflected in 2006 and are just being brought forward? I would say, without saying all bets are off, I think that there could be quite a significant increase in charge-offs in bank card, not related to anything fundamental going on in the economy at all, but more related to the bankruptcy change rules seeing that spike.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: I was looking at your net interest income sensitivity chart on page 12. I was wondering if you could elaborate on that?  

AL DE MOLINA: Explain it?  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: I guess the way I understand it is that zero points is the current -- or the twelve-month forward yield curve. And so if -- okay. So that's correct so far?  

AL DE MOLINA: Yes.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: And if nothing happens, there's no change, what does that mean, there's no -- ? What happens in net interest revenue if the forward yield curve is actually realized -- ?  

AL DE MOLINA: If the forward yield curve is actually realized, then what you would expect to get the guidance that we give you. That doesn't mean that flattening didn't hurt or steepening didn't help. It just means if you follow the forwards, what we told you is what should happen. If you don't follow the forwards, then you have to -- and we show you in that exactly what the forwards are telling you, which is a year from now Fed funds at 450 and the ten-year at 486, then we move the rate curves all around to show was the susceptibilities are of all those. And I would say that historically, as I have done this now for a number of years, you can expect that the realized risk will be less than that, because this is the risk with us doing nothing, which is not usually what we do.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Then if I try to relate that to page 23, for example, you have a flattening scenario from the forward curve, 100 basis points flattening on the short-end, which I think is scenario G.  

AL DE MOLINA: Okay.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: And that's net interest revenue minus $438 million? So that's the minus 1.4%? Is that -- ?  

AL DE MOLINA: I didn't -- yes. One's taken from the other. I didn't do that math.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: I just want to try to understand that that's what you are driving at, in that regard. And then your other point on net interest revenue is on page 22, that's if you exclude trading-related, the margin was flat?  

AL DE MOLINA: This quarter. It's always difficult for us because we move -- what page was that?  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: 22 and 23. 22.  

AL DE MOLINA: I don't think I have the same book you do, but okay. The margin was flat this quarter. And actually, if you follow the forwards and project your net interest yield without trading accounts and you don't change the mix in the balance sheet -- you don't make a big move from off balance sheet to on or anything like that, we would expect no more than five basis points more of reduction in the net interest yield, looking at it that way -- five basis points plus or minus. In other words, the lion's share of the core net interest yield decline that's actually reflective of something, has already occurred.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: And is this -- page 12, is that excluding trading-related net interest revenue?  

AL DE MOLINA: Trading-related net interest income is taken out.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Just one last question, on page 13, you have the yellow line which is the five-year CMS versus three months LIBOR. And on page 12, it looks like everything is ten-year versus Fed funds. So I'm not sure --  

AL DE MOLINA: One is to give you the shape of the curve here, just because the ten-year is probably going to be the pricing point on mortgages is going to drop your [payments]. The real -- the point on the yellow line is, we are trying to give you a point from which to look at the curve structure as well, within the basic pricing business. We can do that for you on a consistent basis. I don't know why we chose one and not the other. We do manage everything off of the ten-year. And the ten-year -- well, you are going to get the same picture. The ten-year we do, because that's the place that you are going to have most of the effect on the mortgage business.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: And so, the basic conclusion is that, I guess it's pretty obvious, the steepening would be good and the flattening would be bad.  

AL DE MOLINA: Not huge in either direction as you see from the bubble. The more important thing though, if you extended this analysis back to '01 and you did it for the entire industry, what you find is -- and you took all the trading stuff out -- what you'd find is that industry net interest yield declined 20 to 50% -- 20 to 50 basis points. What was that when in '01 you had you a similar shaped curve than you have today? So what happened was the level of rates. Because the free funds base that all the institutions have, has to get funded -- you have to be invested in something. Over time, if you are in a low rate environment for long enough, which we have been, all the old positions have rolled off and now you have no choice but to either not invest or invest in a lower rate environment.  

So you've see every institution have very, very similar -- I think if you did it, you would find us to have one of the smallest decreases in core net interest yield over that period, and that getting a lot of gains, but will you see that in every institution and that's the reason for it. If I'm asked which one is more dominant, curve or level, I think it's level when you are talking about low rate environment.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thanks. Going back to your comment about managing capital up over time, there's been a lot of observers in the marketplace predicting a doom and gloom scenario for retail mortgage product next year and the year after. Even Don Powell from the FDIC had some fairly stark comments for the community bankers this week. He said the innovation of the past year is obscuring the underlying risk. Do you think current default rates are understated, both for your bank and for the industry generally? And what color can you give us about how you think about where we are long-term, in terms of default experience?  

AL DE MOLINA: I would love to do it and I would love to make it broader than just residential mortgage. Residential mortgage credit costs this quarter were up two basis points, it ran from two to, -- in essence, nothing. And I think that relative performance mortgage against all else will remain that way, but overall -- I'll take overall in a minute. With regard to our specific portfolio, we do a lot -- first of all, we have very, very stringent underwriting standards, particularly in the ALM portion, which is not a small portion of the residential book. And we do wraps to cover credit insurance and we do derivative transactions to buy insurance, so there is very little credit risk in the ALM-related residential mortgage portfolio, which is quite large.  

Another comment though, do I expect -- do I think that spreads are too tight across the board and default estimates are too low and risk premiums are too low and my answer to all the that is yes. What will precipitate a change? I don't know. And so, what have we done in response to that?  

Another additional disclosure that I was asked for at the Lehman conference and we provided, I think it's on page 28 of your financial supplement, is we divvied up the CDS book by rating agency, so you can see where we bought protection. In essence what we are saying is, yes, spreads are too tight and we are going to make less money now by paying away that protection to be better protected, not only for our own institution but to be in a better position to do more business for our clients when it turns. And it will turn, I just don't know what the impetus will be. And if you were to listen to me a year ago today, I would have been saying the same thing. So so far we are a year into it, right? One from the phone, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll take a question from the line of Lori Appelbaum with Goldman Sachs. Go ahead, please.  

LORI APPELBAUM, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just had a question on the MBNA merger closing. I know the delay is only a matter of weeks, but the closing now is going to be in the first quarter versus the fourth. It's a pretty simple merger, I'm just wondering if there is any real reason for the delay at all?  

AL DE MOLINA: I hope it's actually going to be January 1st as opposed to December 31. I don't consider that --  

LORI APPELBAUM: Well, when the merger was announced, the closing was thought to be November of the fourth quarter.  

AL DE MOLINA: I don't recall that. Late in the fourth quarter? I mean the beauty of January 1st is it cleans things up a lot for all of you and us. It's not like the days of pooling. So you get some really -- you guys do a lot more work when you had a situation like you had with us and Fleet, where you do it mid-year. I kind of like January 1st, anyway.  

LORI APPELBAUM: So no real reason. And then in your comments about improving profitability at BofA Securities, if you could more specific. Because despite strength in revenues in the quarter, profitability and earnings fell. So to give us hope for improvement in earnings and profitability into '06, if you could be more specific about strategies to get there.  

AL DE MOLINA: I think the way to look at that, Lori, is to look at the full-year results. What you will see is that the full-year results year-over-year, and that's in the supplement we gave you, has increased the number in pre-tax earnings something with like $477 million, which is about what the litigation cost differential between what's been in this year versus last year. So what it tells you is that the rest of it netted to nil, which is exactly what we designed it to do.  

What we designed it to do was, okay, we know that the -- we are where, and we want to spend X to drive exactly X, or better, we would prefer, in revenues; but this was the first year -- this was kind of the priming of the pumps, because we had been so far behind in that business. Going forward, you would expect both profitability from that investment that occurred in '05 going into '06 and any investments in '06 or beyond will provide profitability both in those years and thereafter. So from now on, they will be managed just like our other businesses with the same focus and discipline. Basically, what we got at TCMIB was a one-year prime to the pump. So the numbers that you see should not be any way a surprise. And profitability should come next year and I will be here for you to talk to me if it's not.  

LORI APPELBAUM: Thanks.  

AL DE MOLINA: Another one from the phone, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from the line of Ed Najarian with Merrill Lynch. Go ahead, please.  

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, Al.  

AL DE MOLINA: Hi, Ed.  

ED NAJARIAN: I want to ask you a quick question about deposits and specifically, with respect to rate. We saw savings now, money market account balances decline relative to the second quarter. And when we look at the rates paid on those, they look quite low, especially compared to the competition. You hardly raised them versus the second quarter. Then you made that comment with respect to with MBNA that you confident that your total combined deposits will be below the 10% threshold. So I'm wondering, are you purposely restraining rates, especially in now and in money market in an effort to help sustain net interest income? And not really worried about that because you want to stay under the deposit threshold anyway? If you could drill down on that and give me an outlook and what your plan is with deposit rates, from a competitive standpoint.  

AL DE MOLINA: I also mentioned that retail deposits were up on the quarter. What you saw was, there are a number of commercial categories in those now and commercial flows in those now and money market categories that are subject to bidding and we just weren't as aggressive. You saw that result. Most of the run-off, if you went through the pieces, went through the speech; were commercial-related, not consumer.  

With regard to deposit pricing, we will always -- again, and that was what I meant by my comment with regard to consumer aggressively building their business with an eye towards balancing marketshare and profitability. And we will continue to explore pricing strategies and product strategies and product innovation in order to do those things, which is meet our client needs and therefore gain marketshare, but make money for the shareholder.  

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. When we look at the deposit rates in those areas, they are at this point, significantly lower than a lot of your large regional bank competitors. You are not concerned about that lag at all?  

AL DE MOLINA: The way we do it is, market by market, strategy by strategy, trying to compare against the people that we do business with or compete against. And we may respond to high rates in one category with a different product in another. And I think you can see that over the period it has worked quite nicely. When it stops working, we will have realtime feedback from the field that it's not, and we can change course. The important thing is that [indiscernible] is committed to building that business with a balance towards marketshare, which means the clients get what they need; and profitability, which means that's what the shareholders have us here for. And I think they have done a fabulous job and I expect that they will continue to so.  

ED NAJARIAN: Thank you.  

AL DE MOLINA: Another phone?  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Go ahead, please.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: Thanks. Welcome back, Al. On the MBNA integration, it's mentioned in the press release, that the integration is underway. Could you give us some color on how you've been working with MBNA to bring them into BAC?  

AL DE MOLINA: Sure. There's an integration team that has been in place since day one. They go through the first phase of what have they do, and it's called Toll Gate One in our parlance; what they do is they tear apart the two institutions in every department, every way of doing business, and compare and contrast -- here's what they do, here's what we do. The next toll gate which comes in early November is a definition what we are going to do together and that part is not done. What I will tell you is that, not only did nothing negative come out of the all the integration work we've done so far, we feel, if anything, better about the prospects for the merger.  

If you think about -- most of our historic combinations have been 95% the Bank of America model and 5% -- pick ups of some of the target model. I think that this is going to be very different. I think they have some great things that they do there. I think we have some great things that we can help their franchise and I think this is going to be a thoughtfully done integration, a much more balanced outcome than doing it our way.  

BETSY GRASECK: Is there anything on the balance sheet side that we should be looking for over the course of the next couple of quarters to prepare yourself for the integration of K.R.B.?  

AL DE MOLINA: No, no. There's nothing that we are doing. At this point, there's nothing that's come up that we need to do. Once we start getting a little closer and looking at the risk postures together, there maybe something indicated. But there is nothing that we know of right now.  

BETSY GRASECK: So it's a leveraging of the balance sheet that you did this quarter really wasn't at all related to preparation for K. R. B.?  

AL DE MOLINA: No.  

BETSY GRASECK: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from the line of Chris Mutascio with Credit Suisse First Boston. Go ahead, please.  

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning, Al.  

AL DE MOLINA: Morning.  

CHRIS MUTASCIO: I just wanted -- have you had time to determine what the exposure to [RevCo] may be, both on a trading perspective and a loan exposure perspective?  

AL DE MOLINA: Yes , the overall credit exposure and trading exposure to [RevCo] is diminimus. That doesn't mean that the issue is diminimus. Obviously, we are going to have to deal with the litigation side of things. But with regard to operating fundamental risk it is diminimus.  

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from the line of John Pandtle with Raymond James. Go ahead, please.  

JOHN PANDTLE, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Good morning. I was wondering if you could touch on your expectations for balance sheet management, going forward? And I'm specifically focused on the securities portfolio. Do you expect, assuming you continue to see this improved loan growth that we will see liquidity from the securities portfolio effectively used to fund that? On a related note, if we continue to see this aggressive deposit pricing competition, do you expect to incrementally support balance sheet growth from the wholesale sources?  

AL DE MOLINA: Well, again -- let's take the second one first. When you manage with that balance of marketshare and profitability, that will take to you where it takes you. If it takes you to a place where the next incremental funding is more efficiently and effectively done in the wholesale markets, then so be it. But what will drive that business is competition in that business and a balance between marketshare and profitability.  

With regard to balance sheet management strategies going forward that -- the science of the mortgage portfolio is driven by the size of the interest rate risk imbedded in our almost $600 billion deposit book. To the extent that that grows, one of the things that we have found over the years is, we were like a one or two trick pony. We had this great deposit growth and we had one or two places to put it in, mortgage was one of those. And we -- and that necessitated a much more active management process to manage the prepayment and extension risk in that book. We didn't like that, but that was what it was.  

It really was one of the drivers behind the phone call to GMAC about what we could do together to see if we can't find different approaches to problems that they had and that we had. We will continue to look for those types of solutions so that we can reduce the level of [combexity] risk that we had, because it is a difficult thing to manage. We've done it extraordinarily well, but how far can it go if the deposit book goes to a billion -- I mean a trillion -- we will own every piece of mortgage in the United States or something. So there's a limit to it and we are looking for alternative strategies to reduce our dependency on [combexity] risk.  

JOHN PANDTLE: Okay, thank you.  

AL DE MOLINA: From the room.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Good morning. Could you --? You commented that commercial credit losses are finally starting to move off the loans. Does that imply that we, as an industry, finally hit an inflection point? And I know it's a dangerous question. We are only at 47 basis points. What is normal for BAC out in the secular period?  

AL DE MOLINA: 47 actually includes the auto -- the airline charge-offs and the fundamental number was more like six. I think it's bigger than six. I think that over time we will see where it goes. It will change over time as the risk profile of the institution changes but there are some pieces out there that are written by external folks looking at commercial categories. Generally that would put normalized credit losses somewhere around 50 basis points, if I recall, for that asset class. That doesn't seem to be an outrageous number to me. Right now we are at six ex the airlines.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: If I could follow-up on the GMAC? Is that relationship active and would there be any change if GMAC was sold?  

AL DE MOLINA: We don't have an out in the contract and they don't have an out either but if someone bought them that was not interested in pursuing that transaction, we would negotiate a solution to that. But right now we are expecting that either GMAC or whoever buys GMAC will continue to honor the terms of that contract.  

That's it? Well thanks very much, folks. Great seeing you all.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020051102e1aj000pe
  


 HD
 Q2  2005  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,468 words
   PD
18 July 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Mr. Stitt, you may begin when you are ready.  

KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt, Bank of America Investor Relations.  

   TD
Before Marc Oken, our Chief Financial Officer, begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial condition, results and expectations and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures in the financial services industry, or legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents.  

And with that let me turn the meeting over to Marc.  

MARC OKEN, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Kevin. Good morning and thank you for being here this morning.  

Now we spent more time with the investment community this quarter than normal due to a number of positive things going on with Bank of America. As you will remember, in late June we announced our strategic investment in China.  

Just after that, we announced an increase in our dividend by 11%. That now provides, if you use Friday's Bank of America stock price, a yield of about 4.3% to Bank of America shareholders.  

And then finally, we just announced the merger with MBNA, and I understand their earnings were released this morning. And that will create the world's premier payment platform within Bank of America.  

Following these actions are today's earnings and we think they demonstrate that our strategy implemented a few years ago is working.  

Our earnings were $4.3 billion, or $1.06 per share on a diluted basis versus $1.14 per share in the first quarter, and $0.93 per share in the second quarter just a year ago. All three periods reflect a $0.02 per share merger and restructuring charge.  

Now as we anticipated, these strong results reflect a continued momentum in several of our businesses enhanced by moderate, but what we think is sustainable, economic growth. However, offsetting some of this momentum was a challenging trading and interest rate environment that we all faced.  

But our consumer business has demonstrated ongoing success in adding new customers, growing deposits, and delivering balanced growth among all products. Our commercial businesses and Global Business and Financial Services benefited from accelerating loan growth in almost all their major businesses.  

Wealth management benefited from increased loan volume growth and specialized asset management fees and higher assets under management.  

Investment banking fees were increased from first quarter. They were helped by increased momentum in securities underwriting and also M&A activity.  

Corporate-wide expenses were down slightly and the net result of all that is an efficiency ratio again just under 49% if you exclude the merger and restructuring charges. Overall, commercial credit quality continued to improve while consumer credit quality remained stable.  

Okay. Let's go right to the headwinds and we'll talk about net interest income first.  

In the second quarter on an FTE basis, our net interest income was down $231 million from the first quarter. Driving the decrease was lower results from asset liability management activity and the impact of rates.  

Our capability in growing deposits continues to be a core competency as evidenced again this quarter and it provided substantial investible liquidity.  

Our available liquidity exceeds our customer demand for loans within our risk parameters. So we have opted to invest excess liquidity in mortgage products, MBS securities and whole loans, which are core investment positions for Bank of America.  

Given convexity and prepayment risk inherent in mortgages, we maintained some protection against sharply higher or lower rate movements.  

During the quarter, the yield curve flattened beyond expectations implied by the forward curve at the start of the quarter. And you've got a visual in your package on Slide 6.  

Now, this flattening of the curve occurred from both ends, as you know, as short-term rates rose and long-term rates fell. Actions taken this quarter included coupon redistribution of our MBS portfolio and some mortgage asset sales in response to falling long-term rates to manage ongoing convexity and prepayment risk and those resulted in the gains that you saw in the P&L this quarter.  

Now, the flattening of the curve from both ends, combined with these actions, drove net interest income down in the quarter, and was the reason for about half of the decline in the net interest yield, which was 30 basis points for the second quarter. Now, the other half of this decline in the yield, 15 basis points, was because of higher levels of lower yielding trading-related balances in GCIB.  

As we mentioned to you last quarter, in this environment we do expect some quarter-to-quarter variability in net interest income because we manage both the balance sheet and core interest income over a longer time horizon than simply the next quarter. We continue to be on track for decent full-year growth in net interest income, despite a difficult rate cycle, and we think that net interest income in the third and fourth quarters could be up about 1 to 2% from second quarter results.  

Now, let's switch now to the individual businesses and in your handout that starts on Page 8.  

Global Consumer and Small Business Banking earned $1.6 billion and they had an ROE of 19%. Their net income was down from the first quarter and from a year ago, mainly because of higher provision levels, and I'll talk about that in just a minute.  

Total revenue, however, for that business continued to rise from first quarter and from a year ago driven by robust non-interest income growth of 8% from the first quarter and 15% from a year ago.  

Their average loans rose 1% from the first quarter as credit card grew 2% and home equity grew in excess of 5% just for that business. It was 7% growth in home equity on a consolidated basis. That was offset somewhat by a decline in the mortgage portfolio.  

Net new retail checking accounts opened up in the quarter were 629,000, that's up 21% from a year ago. In the Northeast alone, net new retail checking accounts increased 78,000, almost five times the amount in the same quarter last year.  

Now, also during the quarter 568 net new retail savings accounts, and 1.6 million credit card accounts were also opened. Active online banking customers continue to grow as well and now total 13.6 million, that's up 21% from a year ago, and we have 6.6 million customers paying their bills online, that's up 48% from a year ago.  

Because of the seasonality in some of our consumer businesses that we mentioned in the first quarter, let's compare revenues for the second quarter to that of a year ago, specifically card income and service charges. As I mentioned earlier, fee revenue growth was 15% versus a year ago, and the main drivers were card fees and service charges offset by somewhat lower mortgage banking income.  

Service charges rose 12% to more than $1.2 billion and benefited from a growing number of new customer accounts that I just highlighted and further deepening in existing relationships.  

Card income was up 25% from a year ago, and it benefited from strong growth in debit card and credit card, as well as from the acquisition of NPC, which closed in the fourth quarter of 2004.  

Debit card income grew 30%, purchase volumes increased 27%. Card income grew 10% adjusted for NPC, driven by increased interchange.  

If you move back to a link quarter basis comparison, corporate mortgage banking income decreased $32 million from the first quarter due to decreases in servicing income and production income. Versus the first quarter, however, originations, mortgage originations were up 21% to $21 billion, although origination volumes were up, production volume was unfavorably impacted by margin compression during the quarter.  

Also, lower net servicing income was economically offset by $21 million of unrealized gains during the quarter on FAFS securities, and we use that as an economic hedge for a portion of the MSR, it's actually about 20% of the MSR is hedged this way, the rest is hedged 80% by FAS 133.  

At the end of the quarter, the value of the MSRs as a percent of the servicing portfolio was 1.08% versus 1.28% at the end of the first quarter. And I think the take-away from all those comments is we manage the MSR intangible conservatively.  

And new account and product growth continued to aid our deposit growth. Including premier banking, our [affluent] sector and business banking, average retail deposits, that represents the bulk of our core deposits were up $11 billion, or 3% from the first quarter.  

Overall, consumer credit quality continued to remain stable as I said. Managed consumer credit card net losses as a percentage of the portfolio increased 6 basis points to 6.23% on an annualized basis from the first quarter.  

Now, the estimated impact this quarter of the first stage of the minimum payment change, which we implemented last year, was about 35 basis points, or $50 million. And that's down 7 basis points from the first quarter.  

The estimated impact related to bankruptcy reform was 27 basis points, so I'll do the math for you. The charge-off rate for card was 6.23. If you subtract 35 basis points for min pay, and 27 basis points for bankruptcy, the charge-off rate adjusted per card is 5.61%.  

Now, when you get further underneath that what you see is a different charge-off rate for the legacy Bank of America portfolio versus the Fleet portfolio. And to give you one more factoid, the estimated charge-off rate on the legacy Bank of America portfolio is 4.82%. So hopefully that'll give you a little better insight into charge-off rates for our consolidated card portfolio.  

Now, 30-day delinquencies ticked up 5 basis points while 90-day delinquencies dropped 14 basis points. The provision for the quarter in Consumer and Small business is $1.1 billion while net charge-offs were $849 million.  

The difference of $294 million represents increased reserve levels for growth and seasoning in the consumer card portfolio, including returning securitizations of about $1 billion and a reserve for our initial estimate of the impact of the final additional minimum payment requirements, which will occur in the fourth quarter.  

As we told you in the first quarter, we're going to increase the required minimum payments in the fourth quarter of this year and that will have the effect of reducing the length of time for customers' repayment. The first minimum payment adjustment was to eliminate negative amortization.  

Now, actual charge-offs from this won't appear until 2006, but during the quarter we were able to estimate the losses related to that change and we've established a reserve of $210 million in card for that.  

Now, let's turn to Global Business and Financial Services. Their earnings were up 9% from the first quarter to $1.2 billion. They had an ROE of 17%. They had a great quarter.  

Their revenue was down 2% from the prior quarter as increases in middle market investment banking were more than offset by lower net interest income and lower leasing gains that they had in the first quarter. Their average loan growth quarter-over-quarter was 3%, that's up from 2% in the first quarter. So that's annualized growth in middle market of 12%.  

Much like the first quarter, loan growth was spread across most of their businesses, including middle market, business banking, real estate, dealer financial services and business capital. Within each of these businesses, the loan growth was fairly diverse on a geographic basis but it also includes attractive continued growth in the Northeast market.  

Their credit quality continues to be strong. Their net charge-offs were 3 basis points.  

Non-performing assets dropped another 22%, or 247 million from levels last year. Now, this was mainly related to Latin America and their criticized exposure dropped 8%. Their provision expense was negative as credit integration uncertainties related to Fleet were reduced.  

As I said in the first quarter, the competitive landscape in these various businesses remains tough from a pricing perspective, so client selection continues to be a primary focus as we competitively grow the various businesses, stressing Bank of America's breadth of products. Our outlook for loan activity in business remains strong for the foreseeable future for middle market.  

Turning now to Global Capital Markets and Investment Banking, their earnings in the second quarter were $461 million versus $721 million in the first quarter and the business's ROE was 18%. It was mainly due to lower trading-related revenues.  

The total revenue in GCIB for the quarter was $2.1 billion, down from 2.6 billion in the first quarter. Trading-related revenue for the second quarter was $670 million, and that's a decrease of 40%, or $448 million from the very strong first quarter for Bank of America. But if you recast it and you include commissions and other related income to be more consistent with how our investment bank competitors report, total trading-related revenue was down 29% from the first quarter, and I think that's a better measure for you if you're doing comparisons.  

Fixed income was down $344 million from the first quarter as a result of the volatility in the credit markets and lower gains in our high-yield and distressed portfolios.  

Equities were down 88 million because of a slowdown in the equity derivatives market. Commodities were up 46 million driven mainly by the energy sector.  

The credit default swap portfolio, which is used to hedge our loan book, had a positive impact in the second quarter of $63 million, and that's down $12 million from the first quarter when it was $75 million. Even with the tough quarter on a year-to-date basis, trading revenue is off only 2% from results for the first six months of last year.  

Now, although we can't predict market conditions, the turbulence that we experienced in the middle of the quarter appears to have stabilized as evidenced by June activity in trading which was much better. Hopefully, this foreshadows more normal results in the second half of the year for Bank of America trading results.  

Investment banking fees on the other hand were up 16% for the first quarter, securities underwriting fees were up 15% to $180 million, driven by increases in equities, high grade, private placements, asset-backed issuances.  

Syndication fees were also up 12% to $125 million. Advisory fees continued their positive momentum with a 27% increase over the first quarter.  

Now, given that the pipeline seems to be stronger at the end of the first quarter, we're looking for the momentum in investment banking to carry over for us into the second half of 2005.  

Average loans in global capital markets and investment banking decreased 8%, or $2.9 billion to $32.6 billion from the first quarter, and that's mainly due to the sale of a structured investment portfolio, which is part of our equity business to SocGen that was announced in the first quarter. That actually accounts for most of that decrease. Their loans have been staying relatively flat.  

Average trading earning assets in capital markets and investment banking increased to $316 billion from 264 billion in the first quarter as we saw an increase in activity with investor clients in conjunction with building out our platform to better serve these investor clients. Now, that's on strategy, it's a planned increase in that portfolio, not a surprise for us.  

Now, our fourth quarter core business segment is Global Wealth and Investment Management. They had increased earnings to $590 million, Their total revenue was up 2% over the first quarter because of a 9% increase in non-interest income, offset somewhat by a drop in net interest income.  

The increase of 9% in non-interest income was due to the impact of specialized tax preparation fees, cyclical fees in that quarter, higher asset management fees, and a gain on the sale of foreign equity investment, which was offset by somewhat of a decline in brokerage fees in the business. But if you compare the results to a year ago, total revenue was up 19% and that reflects strong growth in loan and deposit income and in asset management fees.  

Over the past year, the premier banking segment of that business has pushed average loan levels for the total segment up 20% and deposit levels up 53%. While most of the loan growth is organic, much of the deposit growth is driven by the expansion in the Northeast and the migration of affluent retail customers from our consumer businesses.  

Revenue's up 19% versus a year ago and expense levels are up only 1%. We think that's a good example of the significant integration benefits offset by the investment in 662 additional premier banking client managers in that business.  

Assets under management for the quarter increased 2% to $443 billion from the first quarter due to higher market evaluations and long-term asset inflows while short-term money market funds were essentially flat. The numbers are, I think they're up $9 billion, 8 billion is the market adjustment and 1 billion in-flow of equity business to asset management.  

The fifth business, Equity, our principal investing business had equity investment gains for the quarter of $492 million, and 329 million of those gains were in principal investing, some of the rest was in asset management. I mentioned that and then the remainder was the sale of a corporate investment.  

Now, let's turn to capital management for just a minute. Now, the preliminary Tier 1 capital ratio at the end of the quarter was 8.06%, that's down slightly from the second quarter driven by a larger balance sheet and some other factors.  

And we announced an increase in the dividend, as I mentioned, of 11% during the quarter, and during the quarter we repurchased a total of 40 million shares and the net reduction for the quarter was 18 million shares after accounting for shares issued because of option exercises. So that's a net repurchase for the six months of just under 30 million shares for Bank of America.  

Now, going forward, our ability to repurchase shares will be restricted because of blackout periods related to the proposed acquisition of MBNA. Consequently, we expect repurchases to be less than normal, we will be unable to repurchase the additional 30 million shares that we intended to repurchase, but we will offset at a minimum the impact of options exercised during the second six months. So we expect to be at least share neutral for the second half of the year.  

With the slowdown in repurchases, we expect our Tier 1 ratio to increase from present levels through year-end.  

During the quarter we realized $325 million in securities gains. The majority of these gains related to the sale of mortgage-backed securities to manage convexity and prepayment risk.  

Also included in this amount was about $70 million related to proactive resolution of restructured government and corporate credits primarily related to Latin America.  

At June 30th, the total securities in residential whole loan mortgages in our ALM portfolio increased slightly from levels at the end of March, as net declines in our residential mortgage loans were offset by net increases in our available for sale mortgage-backed securities portfolio. At June 30th, our available for sale portfolio of $233 billion had a duration of 2.95 versus a duration of 3.64 at the end of the first quarter.  

This duration decline reflects the impact of the change in rates on our prepayment sensitive investments. At June 30th, the appreciation in our ALM securities portfolio was $554 million versus depreciation of $3 billion at the end of March.  

Now, other ALM actions resulted in gains this quarter of $278 million related to the settlement of our forward sale of residential mortgages. And I mentioned that we had a forward sale at the end of the first quarter and that $278 million is included in other income.  

Our net interest income risk position hasn't changed much and is about as neutral as we've been for a while. A 100 basis point gradual parallel upward shift from the forward yield curve would have a negative 0.6% impact and it was negative 1.1% at the end of March to net interest income over the next 12 months, assuming we didn't do anything about it.  

Similarly, 100 basis point parallel shift downwards has practically no impact over 12 months. We are still positioned to benefit if the yield curve ends up being steeper over the next 12 months than what is currently implied in the forward curve.  

Changing subjects for a minute, we had total net charge-offs in the second quarter of $880 million. We had a provision, approximately the same, $875 million.  

The allowance levels in our consumer businesses increased $300 million as I referenced earlier when talking about credit cards. The commercial allowance decreased $45 million because of continued improved credit quality.  

Our general allowance decreased by $250 million due to reduced credit-related integration uncertainties as we substantially completed the integration of the Fleet credit management processes and platforms.  

Now, we are in the final stages of the Fleet integration. And we'll complete the last major customer conversion over the next two weeks beginning July 22nd.  

The integration has proceeded very well. We just finished the first phase of the Northeast retail conversion and that encompassed 1.9 million customers in Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Maine, and Florida.  

The retail platform conversion that occurs over the next few weeks will address the remaining Northeast franchise and bring 3.9 million customers onto the model bank platform. Now once this conversion is successfully completed, we will call the Fleet integration a wrap except for a few odds and ends to be done over the summer.  

My personal thanks to all of our associates who have put endless hours into getting it done right and getting it done on time and taking care of Bank of America's customers.  

Now, our overall outlook for the second half of 2005 hasn't changed all that much from what we thought when we talked to you in January.  

Granted, the flatter yield curve has been more pronounced, it was flatter than we thought it was going to be, and it slowed net interest income growth in this quarter and for the year versus our outlook in January. But at the same time, lower long-term rates have been positive for certain businesses, as you can see by our loan growth, and also for credit quality, as you can see by our reserves.  

Like any environment, there are trade-offs and as usual we have relied on Bank of America's diversity of businesses to keep us on track with our goals by offsetting negatives with positives.  

More important, the economy has performed in line with expectations and this is evidenced in the strong results of most of our businesses through account growth, loan growth, deposit generation. We still feel, as you can tell, very good about the economy and we think our businesses will perform well in the second half of 2005.  

Investment banking has favorable momentum and based on June activity the trading environment appears headed back to a more normal level.  

All in all, we're pleased with how we performed against our strategy and feel that our outlook given to you in January of 7 to 9% revenue growth for 2005 is still in the cards, assuming trading rebounds.  

Thank you for your attention. Now Kevin and I will take questions. Start off with Mike. Let's get the --.  

OPERATOR: [Operator instructions]  

KEVIN STITT: For link quarter growth. Mike?  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER, ANALYST: Marc, can you elaborate on why you're so confident that NII will be expanding in the next two quarters? Can you give some sense of margin trends month by month? That was a big margin decline 20 basis points, so the yield curve's still flat so why are you so confident that it will come back?  

MARC OKEN: Well, we're at 5%, net interest income growth for the first six months, over the first six months of last year normalized, Mike. That's on a pro forma basis when you add Fleet in for the first quarter.  

So we're starting at 5. Now we had mentioned that we'd be at 4% net interest income growth. We won't be at 4%. We'll be lower. But looking out for the next six months, as I mentioned, I think we'll get 1 to maybe 2%, I'd say at least 1% NII growth.  

And the reason we'll get that is we've repositioned the ALM portfolio so we've taken some short-term pain in the second quarter. That combined with our outlook for rates looking at the forward curve, which we think is reflective of what will occur, we think it won't be as pronounced an impact in the second six months as the first six months.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: And separately.  

MARC OKEN: And then also, you know, to get that result that I'm talking about, you have to have continued good growth in loans which we think we'll have, middle markets at 12% analyzed, 3% quarter-over-quarter. We have got good home equity growth, 20%. Card has slowed a little bit, it was 2% this quarter and then we've got good growth in deposits.  

So -- and our formula all along has been, yes, the yield curve will compress, but if you generate strong customer asset growth and strong deposit growth, you can offset that. So I think the yield curve phenomenon is something we'll have to live with for the short-term, but in the long-term it's going to pay off for Bank of America because of the asset and deposit growth we've had when, you know, when the curve steepens.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: So -- I mean you said you're not buying back the remaining shares, NII's going to be lower overall for the year, so conceptually what offsets that so that you're still okay with the guidance for the year?  

MARC OKEN: Ken's guidance for the year was EPS will start with a 4 and you all have your own views on what that will be. I think the consensus is about 4.25, which I'm not going to comment on. But if you look at results for the first six months, and what I have told you is we think if trading rebounds to normal levels, we'll have revenue growth of 7% to 9%. I would guess then if you work that through your models you would see why we're optimistic for 2005 results.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: And last question. Just a snapshot by region. You had a nice snapshot on the U.S., good deposit growth, where is it better, where is it worse, where is loan growth better or worse, which regions are you liking better?  

KEVIN STITT: Both on a deposit and loan side it was pretty consistent across all regions. I think if you look at individual businesses there were variations but all in all, Mike, I think it was pretty well spread throughout the franchise without one area growing faster either in loans or deposits more than any other.  

MARC OKEN: I mentioned in my comments we're particularly pleased with the growth in the Northeast and at which at the inception of Fleet, started off flattish and gradually increased but it's not dissimilar from the rest of the country at this point for us so --.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Marc, you attributed a portion of your net interest margin compression to reinvesting excess deposits into your discretionary portfolio, yet I'm coming up with only $13 billion of marginal deposits and an almost $80 billion increase in discretionary portfolio. Can you reconcile that, please?  

MARC OKEN: I'm not sure. I don't have your computation in front of me but I think our estimate of excess deposits would be substantially different than that. Have you got the analysis?  

KEVIN STITT: I think commercial deposits are -- there's three areas you have to look at. Consumer deposits are up 11 billion. I think commercial deposits are relatively flat then we have foreign deposits, which I think are up 2. But I'd have to -- Josh, we can talk later.  

MARC OKEN: We can look at your analysis. Our perspective will be much different than that. And we've been saying that consistently for three to four quarters now that we've been investing the excess at tremendous liquidity in our balance sheet generated principally by excess deposits in the discretionary portfolio. Now looking forward, that could change some when the merger with MBNA is executed in December.  

Got one on the phone.  

OPERATOR: We'll take a question from the site of Nancy Bush, NAB Research.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, Marc, how are you?  

MARC OKEN: Hi, Nancy.  

NANCY BUSH: I have got two questions for you here. You talked about the uncertainties in the Fleet credit integration. Could you just define what some of those uncertainties were and do you still expect that that will be a source of loan loss reserve or provision reclamation?  

And secondly on deposit pricing, are you guys having to be particularly aggressive in any one aspect?  

MARC OKEN: On the Fleet reserve, I mentioned that we released $250 million in the second quarter related to uncertainties surrounding the Fleet loan loss reserve and that, we held that reserve in place. It was a reserve established by Fleet for two reasons.  

One, the synchronization of the rating systems, the loan rating systems between Bank of America and Fleet as we brought those in to sync. It seemed to indicate some excess reserve.  

But secondly, the conversion of the Fleet Commercial loan portfolio to the Bank of America system also presented some uncertainty. So until both of those were behind us, which occurred in the second quarter, we held the reserve and released it in the second quarter.  

As to the second question on deposit pricing, during the current times when there is significant excess liquidity in the hands of the consumer, and when banks are experiencing significant compression spread, it's very important liability management becomes a critical part of managing your margins and your net interest income.  

We've been looking at that closely for a year and have been managing the costs very tightly. We have not had to significantly stray from that strategy of managing those rates tightly and don't plan to.  

But what the advantage that Bank of America has in being able to do that is our brand, the access with all of our ATMs, our stores, 6800 stores, our marketing, and our high level of customer service. So we think the customer looks at the relationship with Bank of America on a package basis of what do you get when you have a relationship with Bank of America? And it has resulted in a significant number of net new checking accounts and savings accounts and the growth in deposit levels that our Company has enjoyed.  

NANCY BUSH: It looked like the --.  

MARC OKEN: Other questions.  

NANCY BUSH: That you --.  

MARC OKEN: I'm sorry.  

NANCY BUSH: You've been emphasizing CDs, I think, more than some of your competitors and it looked like the rates were up there. Is that customer demand or is that a deliberate strategy?  

MARC OKEN: As rates have risen -- yeah, it is a customer strategy -- as rates have risen and some consumers look to get the best return on their deposits, they do look to that particular product.  

We've got one that's been strongly successful across the franchise. It's called the Opt-Out CD, which is generally a nine-month CD which gives the consumer the option of changing rates on the deposit one time during the nine-month life. So that, coupled with attractive rates, and they are higher rates but they are managed rates, have resulted in a flow, some out of money market, but a flow into the CD product for us.  

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.  

MARC OKEN: Another question on the line, Randy?  

OPERATOR: The next question comes from the site of Ruchi Madan, Citigroup.  

MARC OKEN: Hi, Ruchi.  

RUCHI MADAN, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Hi, Marc. Several random questions about the balance sheet. First you referred to some repositioning. Can you get more specific there? And then also somewhat related to that, you know, you have a ton of swaptions and I guess I assume that some of that would protect you against a flatter curve so why didn't it? And then I have a couple of follow-ups.  

MARC OKEN: Well, I'll answer it, I'll answer some of the questions. I mean, they kind of run together. I don't want to get into too much detail in the positioning. We provide a little more information when we file the 10-Q.  

But we did a couple things. One -- I mentioned them both -- one, we recouponed our mortgage-backed and our residential mortgages and essentially we swapped out of some 6%s and some 5.5%s into 5% coupons in order to minimize or lower our negative convexity risk because rates have been much lower.  

And that resulted in the gains in residential mortgages and also in the securities gains. And that's to protect our rate, our net interest income going forward with those investments.  

We did reposition the swap portfolio related to our entire balance sheet but in this, the impact really was on the asset, on the [outgo] position, the discretionary position, and what I'd say there is that we have a lower position in received fixed swaps and a lower position in fixed pay swaps. The curve flattening we expected had incurred and that and some other reasons caused us to reposition that portfolio.  

And I think net-net you can probably take all that as being that we had a lower return in the second quarter on our discretionary portfolio. And, as I said, you can expect that to flatten to slightly increase as you look out at NII for the third and fourth quarters and we expect to have probably 1%, maybe higher in the third and fourth quarters in NII increase.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. A couple of questions. First of all, if you expect to have a little bit of flat or up a little bit in your discretionary portfolio and you expect loan growth, why isn't the net interest income forecasted to be better?  

MARC OKEN: I didn't hear.  

RUCHI MADAN: And your neutral.  

MARC OKEN: Could you repeat the question?  

RUCHI MADAN: Sure. You said you are neutral from a rate position, you've said that your discretionary portfolio will be flat to up a little and you've said that you expect loan to continue to grow. So I'm asking why net interest income shouldn't be up more than 1% to 2% in the second half?  

MARC OKEN: Well, I mean you're going to continue to get compression in the yield curve for the next six months, as you know. So I think, yes, you reposition the discretionary portfolio, you will have -- we do expect to have good loan growth, good deposit growth but there's still another, I can't remember the exact number, and dependant on which curve you use, 20 basis points or so compression for the next six months in the yield curve. So I think that will offset.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. Just a couple more, sorry about that.  

MARC OKEN: Okay.  

RUCHI MADAN: The swap revenue based on some of your footnotes is down about 400 million quarter-to-quarter and it's hard for us to analyze the balance sheet. Can you just tell us if there are any particular categories where that's mostly reflected? For instance, is it in loan yields, securities yields?  

MARC OKEN: Let me -- I'm glad you asked that. Kevin can walk you through the particulars about which categories that impacts. I think it had a bigger impact on the deposit side than the loan side.  

But what I will tell you is that if you look at the interest-rate table on a clean-yield basis, then what you see on the loan-yield side, an increase in 30 basis points and on the deposit side an increase in rate costs of 21 basis points, so on a clean-yield basis you actually had a 9 basis point improvement in yields and rates.  

RUCHI MADAN: Do you know how that 9 basis points compares with last quarter?  

KEVIN STITT: Ruchi, don't remember, I'll check and get back with you.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. And then also the last question. The 7% to 9% revenue growth, does that exclude securities gains and does that exclude the whole loan sale gain?  

MARC OKEN: Yeah, it would exclude security gains by definition and currently we don't anticipate, although you never say never, any residential loan sales in the rate environment that we see in the next six months.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. Thanks.  

MARC OKEN: Okay.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from the site of Matt O'Connor, UBS. Go ahead, sir.  

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Can you just remind us how much more buildout in the investment bank in terms of assets? We have had quite an increase in the fed funds [inaudible] and the trading account securities? I thought a lot of that was behind us there.  

MARC OKEN: Well, as far as, you know, Ken's decision was to invest $675 million. We've probably invested I'd say 75% of that, roughly. And we're kind of holding the line right there, 75 to 80%, given the business environment for GCIB. But if we substantially -- we made most of that investment.  

Now, as far as the size of the trading account-related businesses, they did increase in the first quarter, they did increase in the second quarter, as I mentioned. I'd say for the second half of the year you shouldn't expect much more increase. There may be some reallocation within the businesses as Al examines the profitability and the returns of the different components, but our balance sheet will more or less remain flat to slightly up for the second six months of 2005.  

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then probably a little related to the swap question. If we look at the OCI, it improved by just a little bit even though you had a big positive swing in the securities portfolio. Is that just the negative part from the swap? Can you give us those numbers?  

KEVIN STITT: That's right. It's a $3 billion pickup on the security side and a 2.5 negative on the mark to market on the derivatives.  

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just a last question if I may. The non-interest bearing deposits jumped quite a bit and it's always a little tough to see which of the business lines that that's coming in. Can you give us a sense of where you're seeing the growth there?  

KEVIN STITT: Once again, I think it's driven mainly by the new accounts we've had coming on for the last couple of quarters driven mainly through the retail areas.  

The commercial levels are about flat, Matt. I think they're up slightly about 1% when you add all the businesses together.  

MATT O'CONNOR: Thank you.  

MARC OKEN: Is there a question in the room?  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Good morning. I was hoping you could talk on the commercial book. It's, if I look on average balances it looks flat to down, EPS. The end of the period it looks down and the yield is heading in the wrong direction, yet commentary is that the Northeast is going well. So does that imply that we're losing business in California and the Southeast?  

MARC OKEN: No. None of the above. I think when you're looking at our commercial numbers you've got both GCIB managed by Al de Molina and middle market managed by Gene Taylor.  

I mentioned in my comments that GCIB balances were down about $2.9 billion and the bulk of that related to the sale of the business to SocGen in the second quarter. It was about 2.5 billion or 2.6 billion.  

If you take that out, if you could take that out then you would see the 3% quarter-on-quarter, 12% annualized growth that we've had pretty much across the board in Gene Taylor's middle market businesses. The yield's down, I don't have the table in front of me. I suspect if you saw that on a clean-yield basis, well, I don't have it. They're -- I would expect they're holding their own. You've got the impact of derivative amortization in there.  

I did say we, you know, that market because of the growth, those businesses are spending money. It's competitive on the rate side. What we're doing there is looking at the whole relationship. We'll consider rates but we look at the profitability of the entire relationship before backing off on rates.  

KEVIN STITT: Mike?  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: I have two follow-up questions. One, how much do you have remaining in cost savings from Fleet? And second, how do you feel about dealer finance? I mean some other banks have said there's a structural change now that the auto captives can't compete as aggressively in that business.  

MARC OKEN: The first question was --?  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Cost savings from Fleet.  

MARC OKEN: Cost savings, I'm sorry.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: What do you have? What's left?  

MARC OKEN: We're at about 1 billion 850 pre-tax run rate, I mean close to it. I don't remember the exact amount, Mike. It may be 30 or $40 million left from here in the first quarter of next year and it would relate to combinations, conversions in GTS. That's really what's left to do, some of the GTS systems, and also the run-off of the staffing related to bubble staffing in call centers, training, etc., etc. So the remaining cost saves are nominal. I think you can look at second quarter run rate as a proxy from here on out.  

Now, dealer finances is an interesting area. There has been a lot of activity there. You may remember a couple of quarters ago we bought a portfolio, I think it was from KeyCorp, it was about $1 billion in dealer finance. And we continue to see some portfolios available in the market.  

And one of the things that's happening there is cost of funds are increasing significantly for companies in that business. And here's a good example where we can take our borrowing rate and use it to our advantage in looking at dealer finance portfolios that are out there and available and we continue to do that.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Okay. A couple of questions. First of all, 1% growth in net interest income, that must be sequentially off of the second quarter level, right?  

MARC OKEN: Correct.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Okay. Second of all, you seem hopeful about a pickup in the GCIB businesses but normally second halves are not as active, not as good, basically, in those businesses as first halves of the year. So is it going to be different for, you seem to think it's going to be different for you this second half.  

MARC OKEN: I think what we're really envisioning is a return to more normal levels as far as trading revenues. What happened in the second quarter to us and presumably to some of our competitors were we didn't get out of the way of the negative impact of widening spreads on our high-yield, high-grade and other fixed-income portfolios.  

We think that's behind us and are modestly optimistic for the last six months of 2005 for that business as evidenced by what happened in June, plus we have made some investments in people in that business that should pay off for us.  

KEVIN STITT: Steve, you are right. I think the second half is usually slower on trading but if you look at our results six months to six months, that's a better comparison than you know looking to second quarter to second half.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Okay. Now, also in the expense side, I mean expenses seemed, and I arrived late for this meeting so you may have covered it, but expenses seemed maybe $100 million better than I would have expected. Is the second quarter overhead run rate something that is, we'll likely see good growth off of that level in the second half or what?  

MARC OKEN: We're really good at managing expense, thank you for that question.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Uh-huh.  

MARC OKEN: I think the second. There were some expenses in the first quarter related to litigation that don't show up in the second quarter. So that would be one factor in second quarter, but the answer is, I think second quarter is more or less a proxy. I'm not looking at the numbers you're looking at. My intuition is it's a proxy for the rest of the year.  

This is a bank that's been around 49% of efficiency ratio, which for our business mix is a pretty good track record for a bank our size and I am not going to tell you we'll be there quarters three and four but I think that's the run rate you ought to consider, yes.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Thank you.  

MARC OKEN: Okay.  

OPERATOR: Take a question from Lori Appelbaum, Goldman Sachs, go ahead.  

LORI APPELBAUM, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: My question was asked, thank you.  

MARC OKEN: Hi, Lori.  

OPERATOR: Take a question from Chris Mutascio, CSFB.  

CHRIS MUTACSIO, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning Marc.  

MARC OKEN: Good morning, Chris.  

CHRIS MUTACSIO: I am doing a back of the envelope analysis. It looks like the blended yield on the trading book which I define as the fed funds sold position and the trading account position was roughly 3.38% in the quarter. The blended yield on the trading account liabilities, being the fed funds purchased and the trading account liabilities, was 3.42% so you had a negative spread on those four individual line items if you combine them. Why build the trading book in light of a negative spread position?  

KEVIN STITT: Chris, Kevin. Actually, we had, we break it out for you in the Q. And if you look at the Q on a particular table, and when you see the Q coming up you would see that we had a spread in the first quarter on trading-related activities of 84 basis points, believe it or not in the second quarter, it's 90 basis points. So we do have a spread on those assets. However, it is tight.  

MARC OKEN: And that contributed to 15 of the 30 basis point reduction in the Company's net interest yield for the quarter.  

CHRIS MUTACSIO: Okay. Thank you.  

MARC OKEN: Okay. I mean the money made in that business obviously goes beyond the spread. It goes to all the commissions and related income and to the trading gains from those customer relationships. Other questions?  

OPERATOR: Going to the site of Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley. Go ahead, please.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning.  

MARC OKEN: Hi Betsy.  

BETSY GRASECK: How are you doing? I wonder if you could just give us insight as to how you're thinking about managing the balance the sheet as KRB closes and comes on? Is there anything that you might be doing ahead of the closure of that?  

MARC OKEN: Well, I mentioned one thing. And that's that we expect our Tier 1, which was 8.06 in the second quarter, to increase in the second half.  

Now, I said we'd have difficulty repurchasing the 30 million net shares that we had intended to before the June 30th MBNA announcement because of blackouts, but also in candor, yes, we do anticipate increasing our capital levels and we'll tell you what our new intentions are in the latter half of the year. But I think you can expect higher capital levels for Bank of America than we have had in the past, which we thought were strong and suitably reflected the risk inherent in our balance sheet but with MBNA coming on, that'll change somewhat and we'll look at that as we work through the MBNA transition and execution.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right. And so the tangible equity assets ratio that you indicated as being sub 4% could obviously be higher than that?  

MARC OKEN: Yes.  

BETSY GRASECK: And then anything that you might do however on the funding side?  

MARC OKEN: Well, you know, MBNA securitizes a substantial part of their card portfolio. I won't get the numbers right but it's roughly $100 billion card portfolio of which about $80 billion is securitized.  

I think intuitively we would like to think that there's some benefit there from bringing some or all of that on the balance sheet because of our funding costs, but that's a complex matter that we'll have to look at really hard and we'll know at the end of the year. And those securitizations have around a thee-year life. So if we were to change their strategy, it would not occur abruptly, it would occur over time.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right. Okay. Thanks. And then on fixed income just generally.  

MARC OKEN: And, you know, if we do that, it kind of fits in with what we've been saying. We've had excess deposits funding the discretionary portfolio, we've done that because we haven't had a better use for the funds and now we do.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right. And you would think that forward margin's going to be better than [AFF]?  

Just on fixed income trading-related line, could you give us a sense of how the quarter went April versus May versus June and if there's anything that you're seeing in July that gives you any sense that we could have some improvement there as you indicated?  

MARC OKEN: Well, you're asking me to compare May versus June? I think the principal positive change would have been in fixed income trading.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right. I was just wondering if you could give us a sense how the quarter broke out between April, May, and June?  

KEVIN STITT: April and May were lousy and June was good.  

BETSY GRASECK: And July, if you could give us any thoughts on that.  

MARC OKEN: Comparable to what we're seeing in June. The positive rebound has continued on into -- the last report I saw was Thursday or so of last week.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks very much.  

MARC OKEN: Okay.  

OPERATOR: Next go to the site of Ed Najarian of Merrill Lynch.  

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, Marc. Most of my questions have been answered. Just quickly on credit losses on commercial recoveries. Obviously one of the things that held down losses was fairly sizeable commercial loan recoveries. Any sense of the pipeline of potential commercial loan recoveries is left and what pace we might see in terms of a normalization of commercial losses over time?  

MARC OKEN: Our credibility on that last question is not very good because it's continued to be so positive for so long. I don't think you should expect any significant change in recoveries. I know there's one out there in July.  

I mean, it won't really register I think in the quarterly results but I think recoveries should continue on their path. However, having said all that, what we have been saying each quarter is that the provision, because we will no longer continue to experience significant improvements in ratings on commercial loans, at some point the provision on the commercial portfolio should increase. And that's what you should expect to a certain extent in the second half.  

KEVIN STITT: Ed, this is Kevin. The recoveries, frankly, we peaked in commercial recoveries about a year ago in the first quarter of '04, maybe the second quarter, so it has trended down from that peak.  

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And then just quickly to follow-up on a question that was partially answered but to me I guess not completely. When you announced the MBNA acquisition you talked about continuing your repurchase. Obviously, at the same time you indicated that your intangible equity to assets ratio would dip but sort of indicated that you'd still try to purchase through that. Now it sounds like your thinking's changed on that to some extent. Can you give us some insight as to what's changed your thinking there?  

KEVIN STITT: Ed, really the blackout periods in the second half of the year are going to limit our capability to buy back shares. We think given the windows we have we're going to continue to buy back shares. We won't do much more than just offset the options. We don't know how many options will get exercised. We're just giving you an idea that we can at least offset the options. Over and above that, it's probably pretty minimal.  

MARC OKEN: I mean the option and exercise in itself would keep us in the market. I think in the second quarter option exercises were 22 million shares.  

ED NAJARIAN: Right. But isn't this a bit of a change in thinking from where we were several weeks ago when you announced the transaction or am I mistaken on that?  

MARC OKEN: You know, I'm -- I actually don't recall making a comment about repurchase activity, but our thinking I would say has changed, yes.  

ED NAJARIAN: Right. And my question is, what has caused your thinking to change there?  

MARC OKEN: Well, I think the risk profile of the Company, with the execution of MBNA, will have changed some with the addition of those consumer assets and we're thinking about what additional level of capital might be required to support those assets. We're not talking about dramatic change, but we're talking about increases from our historic levels.  

Management has itself imposed a level of 8% Tier 1, which is well above well-capitalized for regulatory of 6%. And we traded, I guess we've been in the 8.06 to 8.20 range. So we're thinking what level above that, and we don't have an answer. It might be required, but in the meantime, because of the constraints on our ability to repurchase shares because of blackouts on MBNA, and the thought that we may add capital, you should expect capital levels to go up somewhat between now and year-end and when we get to year-end we'll tell you what our new thoughts are and our new targets are with respect to Tier 1 and other ratios.  

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Thanks.  

MARC OKEN: Okay.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to the site of Andy Collins, Piper Jaffray.  

ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & COMPANY: Good morning. Just a question on net interest margins. I hate to beat a dead horse here but just wondering how they might have progressed through the second quarter by month. And then of the 1% to 2% net interest income growth in the third and fourth quarter, how much is balances versus spread?  

MARC OKEN: I don't have, we actually do that analysis on the second question internally and I haven't looked at it, but you could probably do the math yourself by taking the forward curve and assuming we had the same momentum in loan growth and deposit growth, say that you see in the second quarter, then you could figure it out. Month by month.  

ANDY COLLINS: Yes.  

MARC OKEN: I just don't recall that there was any of the three months was significantly different than any other month, frankly.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. An unrelated question just on credit costs. You had the 210 million that you established as part of implementing Phase II of the minimum payment requirements. Just wondering how much more of that we could see going forward?  

MARC OKEN: Well, we set up the reserve in the second quarter, the losses will start to occur in the first quarter of '06 and that should do it. That's the second of two phases required by the regulators.  

The first phase, eliminated negative amortization and this one provides for positive amortization and I think we're done with it. I think we've been the most upfront and worked the hardest to determine the impact on our customers of many of the banks and we've done the work, we tell you what we think about it, we tell you what we know and that's it. That should be the end of it in answer to your question.  

ANDY COLLINS: Right, thank you.  

MARC OKEN: Okay.  

OPERATOR: A follow-up question from Ruchi Madan.  

RUCHI MADAN: Actually my additional question was answered but while I have you, you might have mentioned the MSR impairment fee, can you tell us what was that? How much hit the income statement?  

MARC OKEN: What I said was that there's a $21 million related to that. We hedge 80% of the MSR with FAS 133 hedges and the other 20% we hedge economically with securities, AFS securities, that are mark to market through equity. We didn't sell those securities. They are specifically identified. So the answer's $21 million.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. Thanks.  

MARC OKEN: Okay.  

OPERATOR: And our last question is a follow-up from Nancy Bush.  

NANCY BUSH: Yeah. Marc, could you just remind us when you expect to file the MBNA proxies, that we'll sort of know when these blackout periods are?  

MARC OKEN: Gosh. I'm embarrassed I can't tell you. We expect to do the combination in December. So you'd have to back up from there. 60 days ahead of that would be perhaps the September time frame, early October.  

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.  

MARC OKEN: Okay. We had one more question in the house? No? Steve.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: My question is this. Going back to the margin, I didn't quite get it in terms of, you said that the spread on the trading book actually increased from the first quarter level, but then you also said 15 of the 30 basis point decline in the margin has to do with the trading book.  

MARC OKEN: Right.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Did you say those things or --?  

MARC OKEN: I don't think those are inconsistent. The trading book is going to have a lot thinner margins than the rest of our assets, so when you add in an increase in that trading book to the mix of assets on our $1.3 trillion balance sheet it's going to take down the Company's consolidated spreads. And in this case it was by 15 basis points.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: And basically that trading book is not coming down, it's going to stay where it is as far as you can know at this --.  

MARC OKEN: It should stay roughly at the average levels that you see for the second quarter for Bank of America.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Okay. Thanks.  

MARC OKEN: Okay. Well, listen. I know it's a busy day today, we appreciate your time and your attention and your support for Bank of America.  

OPERATOR: This concludes the earnings conference call  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050801e17i000jh
  


 HD
 Q1  2005  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,696 words
   PD
18 April 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning, this is Kevin Stitt from Investor Relations at Bank of America. Before Marc Oken begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial conditions, results and expectations and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be differ from our current expectations. These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures in the Financial Services industry, and/or legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. We also have an additional handout this morning for those of you who are not in the audience in New York. It is available at our website. It just contains some additional financial information that you don't have in the past booklets.  

   TD
 With that, let me turn the meeting over to Marc Oken, CFO at Bank of America. Thank you.  

MARC OKEN, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Morning. Nice crowd this morning. We are always glad to share good news with such a large gathering. Thanks for being with us. Let me start by giving you what we think are the headlines for the quarter, and then we will jump right into the numbers. You've had a chance to look at them. Results in the first quarter reinforce, once again, what we think is the value of diversity among the businesses in our Company. Some of the key trends and drivers that we've seen are accelerated Commercial Loan growth, continuing momentum in our Consumer Banking Business, which was not entirely evident in the numbers because there are seasonal factors in the first quarter with respect to service charges. We had significantly improved trading results. We expanded our operating leverage, and on that point, we drove an efficiency ratio below 50%. So that's got to make Bank of America one of the largest, most well-run, most efficient banks in America.  

We had continued improvement in commercial credit quality. We had continued dynamic balance sheet management. And finally, and importantly, we continue to have, knock on wood, a seamless integration of the Fleet franchise. To put our results in context, we are very happy with our business momentum, especially in view of the headwind that we have all been talking about from a flattening yield curve. We think this momentum and performance demonstrates the power of Bank of America's franchise. And now on to the numbers. Most of my comparisons today will be with the fourth quarter of 2004, since results from Fleet weren't included in the first quarter of that year. There is a comparison with the pro forma results, makes sense and adds value, I will bring those to your attention.  

Total revenue on a fully tax equivalent basis for Bank of America rose 2.2% from the first -- fourth quarter, despite the normal declines in customer activity I mentioned and service charges, also in Investment Banking and also in credit cards. Those are seasonal businesses for banking, and they were for us in the first quarter. But our average loan balances, excluding residential mortgages, increased 3% from fourth quarter levels, 12% annualized, driven by both the Commercial and the Consumer Businesses. We haven't seen loan growth like this for quite a while, although we could feel it coming in the fourth quarter. As you know, the level of residential mortgages that we carry on the balance sheet is driven by asset liability management and does not reflect origination activity or production. Average levels for residential mortgages were, in fact, down slightly from the last quarter.  

Average retail core deposit levels for Bank of America rose 3% for the last quarter, 12% annualized. And were also up 12%, if you could calculate, which we can, pro forma levels from a year ago. Both our Consumer and Commercial Businesses demonstrated continued growth in new customers and in accounts during the quarter. Expense levels remain well managed as evidenced by the efficiency ratio below 50%, that I mentioned just a few minutes ago. So I think that also signals continued good progress in integration of Fleet. You've got to do that to get our efficiency ratio for a bank our size below 50%. The actions we took with the balance sheet in the fourth quarter and also in the first quarter, resulted in sizable gains on the sale of securities during the first quarter. Capital levels remain pretty strong, very strong with a Tier 1 ratio of 8.2%, even while we expanded our businesses, continued to pay a healthy dividend, 4% yield to current prices, and continue to repurchase shares, 10 million net for the quarter.  

We reached several milestones with the integration of Fleet during the quarter, which I will talk about at the end of my comments, and that's going quite well. But all these factors resulted in reported earnings of $4.7 billion or $1.14 a share on a diluted basis versus $0.94 in the fourth quarter and $0.91 one year ago. Those reported earnings included $112 million of pretax merger and restructuring expense, $0.02 a share related to Fleet, and that's down from $272 million or $0.04 in the fourth quarter. Outstanding shares in the first quarter were down 11 million from the end of the year. Total share repurchase were 43 million shares, but we issued 32 million shares, including both option exercises and restrictive stocks, a net reduction of 11 million. Now let me cover results for each of our businesses and then address certain topics from a corporate perspective at the end such as balance sheet management, our perspective on credit quality, the Fleet integration, a little more detail there, and our outlook for the rest of the year which is very positive.  

Let me give you a heads-up that we made some changes in the make-up in the way we segment the businesses starting in January, nothing major. For instance, Latin America is now part of Global Business and Financial Services and it used to be in All Other in 2004. Not a big number. Likewise, Business Banking, that is the client managed part of small business, we moved to Global Business and Financial Services. It was with the Consumer Business. We did this to better align our reporting with how we serve the customer rather than just to confuse you all, but it does make sense in the way we manage our Company. Our history has been restated for all these businesses, so we'll want to reference the first quarter documents when comparing first quarter to fourth quarter.  

Now let's look at the results of each of the businesses, Global, Consumer and Small Business. This business earned 1.9 billion, that is 40% of our Company's first-quarter earnings, and they had a return on equity of 24%. Highlights during the quarter included excellent account growth, visible momentum with our efforts in the northeast, and continued strengthening of home equity lending. In the first quarter, we had net new retail checking accounts of 610,000 versus 602,000 net new checking accounts in the fourth quarter, 406 -- and we had 406,000 for Legacy Bank of America in the first quarter a year ago. In the former Fleet franchise with respect to those numbers, net new checking accounts were 79,000 for the first quarter. There were 45,000 in the fourth quarter. And there were 9,000 in the first quarter of 2004. Net new retail savings accounts opened in the first quarter were 759,000 accounts. We had 742,000 in the fourth quarter and 538,000 for the Legacy Bank of America in the first quarter a year ago.  

As to the former Fleet franchise, 96,000 net savings accounts were opened in the first quarter, 82,000 in the fourth quarter. And there was a net loss of 4,000 savings accounts a year ago first quarter of 2004. So continued success story in opening new customer accounts in the consumer arena, across the franchise, including in the old Fleet franchise. Active online bank customers continue to grow as well and now exceed the 13 million mark and that is up 5% for the end of the year. 6.3 million of those customers pay their bill online, up more than 8% from the fourth quarter. Another way we measure sales progress, we are going to start talking about, is the total number of banking center product sales per quarter. In the first quarter we had total product sales through our stores of 5.5 million, and that's up 8% from the fourth quarter and up 18% from pro forma results from the first quarter of 2004. This 18% growth versus a year ago is comprised of 17% growth in Legacy BAC and 29% growth in the former Fleet franchise.  

This increase in sales and accounts is driven by greater customer satisfaction that continues to improve, banking center productivity, focused marketing, and improved sales processes. Comparisons of fee revenue with the fourth quarter in the Consumer Bank usually reflect, in fact, almost always reflect declines in certain businesses from peak consumer activity during the holiday season. So fourth quarter is strong and first quarter is down by comparisons. In fact, our service charges were down 7% from the fourth quarter, in line with trends we have seen the past few years. There is just less activity in the first quarter in customer accounts, lower account fees, lower NSF fees, and you can see from the trend information in the handouts we have given you, that historically has picked up in the second, third, and fourth quarters. So we don't think that's a signal of a decline in consumer profitability or consumer activity, whatever. It is a seasonal phenomenon that occurs every year in the banking business. I've noticed that the analyst community has commented on that decline with every bank release that's come out as if it is something new, and it's not.  

However, if you look on a pro forma basis to the first quarter results, and you put Fleet in the fourth quarter, that is, service charges first quarter 2005 for Bank of America compared to fourth quarter -- first quarter of last year. First quarter of 2005 compared to first quarter of last year pro forma including Fleet our service charges are up 8% year-over-year. Now likewise, card income was down 7% from the fourth quarter due, once again, to seasonality. But with Fleet and National Processing Corporation in last year's numbers, that's pro forma, it is up 11.8% from the first quarter a year ago. Mortgage banking income from a corporate perspective was $221 million for the quarter up from $156 million in the fourth quarter. With seasonally impacted production volumes remaining near fourth quarter levels, at $17.5 billion, the primary contributor was servicing income results. Contributing to the favorable servicing income results was slower prepayments and positive risk management execution in the first quarter. The translation of that is the difference between first quarter and fourth quarter is the management of the MSR.  

There is no adjustments in the first quarter, no prepayment adjustments, no haircut, and the results are higher in the first quarter, they're lower in the fourth quarter because of that difference. Average home equity balances were up more than 6% over fourth quarter levels, in line with our goal of 20% growth in 2005. So that's 24% annualized. Including Premiere Banking, our affluent sector, and Business Banking, average retail deposits, and those represent the bulk of our core deposits, were up $10 billion or 2.6% from the fourth quarter. So that is 11% plus annualized. And that reflects our efforts to add new customers and deepen the relationship of our existing customers. Managed credit card net losses as a percentage of the portfolio increased 27 basis points to 6.17% on an annualized basis from the fourth quarter, and this was -- this increase in the ratio was due entirely to the impact of the minimum payment change that we provided for and that we talked about in the last quarter. Both 30-day and 90-day delinquencies improved from the fourth quarter levels. Credit quality in the other consumer products also remains strong.  

Now let's move on to Global Business and Financial Services. That business, led by Gene Taylor, earned $1.2 billion in the first quarter of 2005 for Bank of America. And that represents 24% of total corporate earnings with an ROE of 15%. Now revenue increased from the fourth quarter because of improved net interest income, driven by loan growth. This more than offsets declines that they experienced in public finance and Middle Market Investment Banking. Total average loans for this business, Global Business and Financial Services, increased 2.3%. That's 9% annualized versus fourth quarter levels or about $4 billion driven by businesses just about across the board, Middle Market, Business Banking, Dealer Financial Services, Real Estate and Leasing.  

Average loans in Latin America, which is now included in this segment as I said earlier, were down 7.7%, mainly as we took steps to improve credit quality. In the northeast region, we had solid loan growth in Middle Market and in Business Banking. Average deposits for this business were relatively flat. Now we normally see a seasonal decrease in Commercial deposits from fourth quarter, but since compensating balances are receiving higher earnings credit, our customers are choosing to leave their balance instead of paying fees for deposit services. Credit quality within the segment continue to remain very good as net charge offs were an annualized 21 basis points versus 19 in the fourth quarter. The nonperforming assets dropped another 6% or $71 million from fourth quarter, while criticized exposure dropped 12% from fourth quarter levels.  

The competitive landscape remains tough, with loan spreads and Middle Market down slightly from the fourth quarter. That is a fact. We can live with pricing pressures, but we are not sacrificing credit quality in that portfolio. Our client selection continues to be a primary focus as we competitively grow the various businesses, stressing our breadth of product suite. Okay, now let's turn to Global Capital Markets and Investment Banking. They earned in the first quarter $721 million. They had a ROE of 28%. And that comprises 16% of the Company's total earnings. Driving the increase in earnings for the fourth quarter was an improvement in trading account profits and global treasury services offset by a decrease in Investment Banking income.  

Total trading related revenue for the first quarter was 1.13 billion, and that's an increase from the 648 million in the fourth quarter. Driving the increase was improved client flow in interest rate protection products. We had a pickup in activity in fixed income and equities along with valuation increases and credit default swaps. And you can see that in your handout. Fixed income was up 62% to $459 million, and that's in line with results in the first and second quarter of 2004, and revenue from interest rate contracts of $227 million was up almost 2.5 times the number that we gained in the fourth quarter. And they're in line with results in the first half of last year, as a result of increased activity with our Commercial and our Corporate customers. FX revenue was down 15% from the fourth quarter but still higher than results from the first quarter of a year ago. Equities about doubled their results from the fourth quarter, while commodities decreased.  

We increased the level of single main credit default swaps used to hedge our corporate portfolio from $13 billion to approximately $17 billion at the end of the first quarter. The results of valuation changes there are included as you can see in trading results. Now because spreads widened in the quarter for certain industries, the mark-to-market of these swaps had a positive impact of $75 million versus a negative $67 million in the fourth quarter when spreads tightened. So that's a swing from fourth quarter to first quarter of $140 some million. We believe that overall trading results going forward, dependent on market conditions, should reflect the positive impact from the investments we, in fact, had been making over the past several months in attracting talent to these businesses. Now Investment Banking revenue dropped to $350 million in the first quarter, down from 450 million in the fourth quarter.  

Decrease in fees was evenly split between equity and debt is partly due to the fact that December, in fact, was a record month in this area for our Company. Versus the fourth quarter, securities underwriting were down 25%. We had a 19% increase in high yield, but that was offset by a decrease in high-grade and a decrease in equity underwriting. So we maintained a strong market share position in debt. The overall market and the fee pool shrank, along with a decline in private placement activity in this arena in the first quarter. On the equity front, we saw a significant flow down in convertibles and following IPOs. Syndications dropped 20% from the fourth quarter, but we did maintain market share. Advisory services also dropped. We're anticipating a pickup in the second quarter for Investment Banking given our pipeline of activity, and we are seeing in the market a pickup that should reflect better results in the first quarter. In the second quarter, I'm sorry. First quarter, historically, if you look at the numbers, has been a down quarter for us.  

And as you've seen so far it has been a down quarter for the industry. Our average loans in Global Capital Markets and Investment Banking actually increased. I did say that correctly. They increased on this business 2% from the fourth quarter levels to $35.5 million. This is the first time in a long time, the first time I can remember we've shown an increase in this portfolio. In fact it was up well over $100 billion not too many years ago. So that is quite an interesting phenomenon. No particular explanation for it, but it is up. We don't expect the trend to continue, candidly. The credit quality in the portfolio remain quite good. Large corporate net recoveries were $43 million versus 25 million in the fourth quarter. We don't expect recoveries to continue at this level for the rest of the year.  

The nonperforming assets, large corporate, remain flat at $422 million, and the criticized exposure, however, dropped 18%. Our fourth core business segment and final segment to talk about is Global Wealth and Investment Management. They had revenue growth in the first quarter of 7%, and they also had improved expense levels, and those factors drove net income up for Global Wealth and Investment Management by 20% to $576 million. And that represents 12% of Bank of America's corporate earnings. They had a ROE of 24% in the first quarter. The revenue increases were driven by loan and deposit growth, along with higher asset management fees. Offsetting some of the increase were lower brokerage volume and lower assets under management. More on that in a moment.  

And the Premiere segment is included in this business, and it was the driver and it pushed average loans up 17% -- 17% and deposits up 15%. Much of the increase in the Premiere segment from the fourth quarter is driven by expansion in the northeast, in addition to the migration of affluent retail customers from Global Consumer and Small Business Banking. Expense levels reflected the progress that they are making in the Fleet acquisition as we continue to restructure and consolidate both legacy businesses under Brian Moynihan's leadership in Boston. Now even though expense levels are down, we were successful in adding 97 Premiere client managers in the quarter, and that brings additions since the first quarter of 2004 in Premiere to 670 associates in that business. Assets under management at the end of the first quarter are down 4% from the fourth quarter to 433 billion. And the reasons are it's up $18 billion, $10 billion of that is the market valuations, $4 billion of that is a reclass to custody from assets under management, and 4 billion is net outflows of business. We are not happy about that and Brian is focused on that issue.  

As they did in January, let me comment on Equity Investments which includes principle investing. Total Equity Investment gains, included in non-interest income, were $399 million compared to $426 million in the fourth quarter. The $399 million is comprised of cash gains of $463 million offset by $84 million in impairments and a $20 million deposit of mark on the portfolio. While we don't expect to see continued results at these levels, the Capital Markets are providing excellent opportunities for continued cash gains which we think will carry through the rest of 2005. When I talked about this business in January, I said look at the third quarter results, which were 200 some million and I think those are probably representative of what you'll see as the floor in that line item for the rest of the year, be my sense.  

Let me move now to the individual businesses and talk about some topics from the an overall corporate perspective. As I said earlier total corporate revenue on a FTE basis was up 2% from the fourth quarter, and the pieces of that are 1.5% growth in net interest income and 3% growth in fee revenue. And that translates to 6% growth in net interest income annualized and 12% in fee revenue. And to remind you, the guidance that Ken Lewis gave you in the first quarter was core net interest income of about 4%. So we are on track there. And fee revenue growth of 7% to 9%. So we are on track for both of those in the first quarter. The growth in net interest income on a FTE basis to $8.1 billion was driven by volume increases in both loans and deposits, ALM portfolio activity, including growth in the securities book net of spread compression, offset by two fewer days in the quarter.  

Now during the quarter, as you can see, the net interest yield decreased 7 basis points. Much like the fourth quarter, we had a higher level of trading-related assets as we built out Al de Molina's business, and that's accounted for 4% basis point decline in the net interest yield. We also had a higher level of securities and spread compression. The higher levels of securities and spread compression is another 4% and there is a basis point going the other way. So minus 7 in the net interest yield. During the quarter we generated $659 million in securities gains due mainly to actions we took to take advantage of interest rate volatility and managed prepayment risk. And those happened in the fourth quarter. We sold forward into the first quarter and then we sold some securities in the first quarter to get out of the way of declining rates, which would have impaired the value of our portfolio. So we sold those securities and then replaced them when rates regained.  

We have been doing that consistently for several years. If you look at our securities gain line item -- I have lost my sound here, Randy. Can you hear me now? Can you hear me on the phone, Randy? At least the speaker here -- the speaker here still working? Okay. Sounds different to me. Okay. So if you look at our track record here, this is a core competency, and our Company will tend to generate securities gains in many quarters as a result of our managing our interest rate risk.  

So looking ahead, what do we expect? Certainly not -- couldn't tell you to expect securities gains at the level that we generated in the first quarter, but there could be some for the rest the year, but not at that level. Now, from the end of March, we do expect additional rate hikes and further flattening in the yield curve, and this could create some volatility in the level of net interest income going forward. However, we still expect core net interest income growth in 2005 to be close to 4% versus the pro forma results in 2004 which, as I said, is in line with our January outlook. Now, if you look at our net interest income, we report core net interest income and then we also report net interest income from trading. So we are talking about the top-line growing 4%. The trading net interest income, you have to look at that line item in conjunction with trading results to evaluate the performance of that business. So we separate those two.  

Now our balance sheet at the end of the quarter moved closer to a neutral position as far as interest rate movements are concerned. At quarter end, the level of our ALM portfolio had increased from year-end, as evidenced by the growth in the securities book. With that said, our overall net interest income risk position has not increased and, in fact, is slightly smaller. Specifically, a 100 basis point gradual parallel upward shift from the forward yield curve would have a negative 1.1% impact. At the end of the year, that metric was 1.5%. And that negative impact would assume that we don't do anything, and as we always say and as you know, that is certainly not the case. As we were last quarter, we are positioned to benefit should the yield curve end up being steeper over the next 12 months, but what is necessary -- what is currently implied in the forward curve.  

Now, as expected, net depreciation in the available for sale securities portfolio increased to $3 billion pretax in line with an increase in the value of our deposits and debt, which, as you know, are not included in the OCI calculation. I suspect that number is a little lower after the results in the market of the last several days. Don't -- can't tell you exactly what it is. Now let me add some additional comments on credit quality moving on. Provision for credit losses in the quarter across the Corporation was $580 million versus total net charge offs of $889 million. It is a difference of $309 million. The release in reserves was driven by the continued improvement in both Commercial criticized exposure and Commercial MPA levels and reduced exposure in Latin America.  

In addition, a portion of the reserves established in the fourth quarter for the impact of minimum payment changes was utilized as expected. Consistent with -- let me elaborate on that just a bit. So we took the reserve down $309 million to quantify the impact of getting out of some businesses in Latin America and MinPay. That accounts for $100 million of the $309 million reduction in the reserve. The remaining $200 million-plus relates to improvement in credit quality, principally in the Commercial book, where criticized and classified dropped substantially again and MPA showed further improvement. Consistent with what we told you in January, we do expect reported credit card charge off to be in excess of $3 billion in 2005 because of continued growth in the portfolio, securitizations returning to the balance sheet, there is $1 billion-plus coming on the balance sheet in each of the second and third quarters, and also the fourth quarter, Kevin? So another $3 billion-plus to come on from securitizations the rest of the year.  

And also the impact of minimum payment charges, pending bankruptcy legislation and seasoning of the portfolio. So the credit card charge offs we still think will be above $3 billion. However, Commercial charge offs for the rest of the year are tougher to predict given the current environment, including market liquidity. Now consistent with regulatory guided change in industry practices, we will continue to make changes to minimum payment requirements and card. Last year's increase was to prevent cardholders from experiencing negative amortization on their outstanding balances. Later this year, banks will be required to increase the required minimum payment again, resulting in reduction in the length of a customers' repayment period. We are looking at the impact of that and we think it will be manageable. And it is included in my comments about the $3 billion-plus charge off. For the rest of the year, after considering all the items mentioned, we believe the provision for credit losses for the Corporation as a whole will, as we have been saying, trend higher than you see in the first quarter.  

Let me finish by saying some things about the Fleet integration. Our focus is still very intense. We have deposit conversions coming this summer, principally in June and July, but we do continue to be very pleased with the progress that has been made so far. Let me tell you what we've done in the first quarter. Approximately 10 million Fleet consumer credit card accounts were converted to the Bank of America platform. Bank of America credit and debit cards have been issued to all active Fleet cardholders. Loan Solutions, which is our first mortgage origination system, has been successfully rolled out into the former Fleet banking centers, as well as online. We've converted payroll, check processing, and Columbia Management's Investment Accounting platform and they have been merged into common platforms. And the incremental cost savings this quarter were about $43 million, and that brings total cost reductions on a quarterly basis this quarter to $437 million for almost $1.75 billion annualized, which, as we said over a year ago, is our target for annual cost reductions in the combination of Bank of America and Fleet. As mentioned earlier, we have been experiencing material net new account growth in the former Fleet franchise in both our retail and our Commercial Businesses.  

So this leads me to my last point. When we spoke with you in January, we laid out our earnings outlook for 2005. Given the results in the first quarter and factoring in the outlook for the rest of the year, we still think the rest of the year will be similar to the thoughts expressed by Ken Lewis back in January. We think we will have GDP growth of 3.5% or better and that will provide enough opportunities to continue to benefit Bank of America's businesses. Continued volume, growth in loans and deposits, along with success on the fee front will help offset the impact of further curve flattening which we do, in fact, expect. Competition is intense, it always is. But we think our business model and franchise strength will let us continue outperforming the competitors. Investors worry about rising rate environment, but that's a scenario that benefits us and it signals a growing economy and a healthy consumer. For the past few years, we have been focusing on improved customer service and satisfaction across every one of our businesses, and we think that those efforts have resulted in better earnings and we believe the remainder of this year will benefit as well. With that, let me open it up for questions and I thank you for your attention. Mike, do you want to lead it off? You got a mike -- microphone for him?  

MIKE, ANALYST: First, your last comment. You said your guidance isn't changed yet you significantly exceeded consensus in a lot of people's numbers. Are you guiding lower or what are you doing here?  

MARC OKEN: Well, Mike, what I said was our guidance for the rest of the year. So I am talking about the next nine months. We did significantly exceed expectations, a buck -- I've forgotten the exact number. It was a lot. I think when you look at the first -- when I'd look at the first quarter, Mike, what I see that was different -- this is the best I can do for you. What I see that is different than when we stood up here in January is the provision was lower by some amount and the securities gains were higher by some amount. And I think in my mind that was probably about $300 million or $0.05. So I still -- we still think the next nine months will rollout as we said. So you ought to look for 3.8 to 4% net interest income growth or 7% to 9% fee growth. The only guidance we gave you on provision was that we have credit card losses in excess of $3 billion. We think that is probably still about right even with all the noise going on with MinPay. The tax rate should be the same. We're getting the loan growth and the deposit growth that we thought.  

MIKE: Then separately, your securities did go up a lot, as you said, by 1 --  

MARC OKEN: But that was planned. Remember, we were positioned for rising rates. And we sold forward securities in the fourth quarter and then sold some more securities in the first quarter on rates debt. So that increase took us back to the level where we thought we needed to be to hit our net interest income target and manage our interest risk in 2005.  

MIKE: And then lastly, the bar in your trading. Your trading did great this quarter.  

MARC OKEN: Yes, it really did. We're really proud of it.  

MIKE: Your value at risk. How much more risk were you taking?  

MARC OKEN: The answer to that is, and Kevin, I am going to ask you to pull a number out -- I want to say it's about 45 to $50 million. I was looking at that over the weekend. It really didn't change that much in the first quarter. I think what you're seeing, Mike, is we are making investments in people. Al de Molina has made some changes in the organization. And I have talked to him a lot about how well he's doing in trading and we think that what you are seeing are the fruits of those investments and management reorganization that he has been implementing so far. We have hired some strong people there. So -- not to take away from that, but also if you look back, the first quarter has been historically, for a bunch of reasons, a relatively good trading quarter for us.  

MIKE: Lawrence.  

LAWRENCE, ANALYST: Could you focus a little bit -- you mentioned the outlook in terms of Commercial loan growth, but I would like for you to, in terms of a forward momentum, how you see any things in terms of a change in character, the type of business loan growth that you are experiencing now going forward in light of the interest rate situation and the economy.  

MARC OKEN: Well, I'd say looking forward at least three to six months. We have a chart in one of your handouts that breaks up Gene Taylor's lending activities into about five or six different products, from dealer finance to M&I lending to leasing to whatever. And every one of those businesses, with one exception, showed growth of anywhere from 7 to 11 or 12% annualized. And in talking with him, I would say the feeling is that should continue on out into the second quarter and hopefully beyond. So I wouldn't go so far as to say the end of the year because anything can happen in nine months, but it is a pretty upbeat crowd is what I will tell you.  

LAWRENCE: All right. In terms of the emerging markets, you -- you talked about Latin America, but are the other emerging markets -- could you kind of give us an idea of just what's happening there and how do you see things in that area going forward?  

MARC OKEN: In -- you are talking about Latin America?  

LAWRENCE: Other than Latin America, Asia-Pacific and -- .  

MARC OKEN: Oh, well, we don't -- we do not -- we have a presence in Tokyo, the Far East and Hong Kong. But those are extensions of our business relationships with our U.S. corporate customers. So I wouldn't comment on our business specifically. I would say China. We don't disagree, that's the bright spot. When you look at the growth possibilities, that's the one that stands out. That's where the opportunity is.  

MIKE: Ron?  

RON, ANALYST: Yes, thanks. I have some questions about expenses. Compensation costs was up 180 million in the quarter. I wondering if you'd say how much of that was incentive related and then more broadly, do you think you will be able to stay at 50% or so efficiency ratio for the year?  

MARC OKEN: Thank you for that question, Ron. I love to talk about expenses. Expenses are down first quarter over fourth quarter. If you could peel back the -- I think we just gave you one line in personnel -- what you'd see is that the salaries line is down first quarter over fourth quarter. And the reason for that is the continued headcount reductions coming out of Fleet and other management exercises that we announced in 2004. The -- a couple other lines are up and they will be incentives, and they are up one, because Al de Molina had a good first quarter, so his incentives are up. They're low in the fourth quarter because of some true-ups for full year, so they are up slightly for all of those reasons. And then finally, some of the benefit lines are up slightly. The reason being changes in assumptions, in pension, i.e. the discount rate, which I think you will see probably all companies have that, and then some slight impact from the alignment of the Fleet benefit process to the Bank of America, the integration of those two. So there's a bunch of different reasons, but your overall question on expenses --  

RON: Was do you think you can maintain the efficiency rate?  

MARC OKEN: I am not sure I predict by quarter, but our intent is to have for the full year an efficiency ratio less than 50% and I am relatively optimistic that we will attain that. I mean the trend and the momentum is there.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER, ANALYST: Yes, Marc. Loans to ever growing assets are, I guess, down to 50% of the overall balance sheet. Any sense in terms of there is a floor you don't want to see that metric fall below. And then secondly, just in terms of any -- in terms of how much more you think you need to do in terms of building up the trading -- trading assets on the balance sheet as you build out the corporate investment bank book.  

MARC OKEN: Well, clearly, our desire and our intention would be for the composition of loans to stay as high as possible because that's our core business and we're generating -- . Having said that, we are generating deposits at a low double-digit rate, and they are being reinvested in the investment portfolio. All other things being equal. Okay. First of all, so the loan number will increase because in the Middle Market Business we do expect high single-digit loan growth. But having said that, that's only about $150 billion portfolio. You should continue to see good growth in the consumer portfolio when, in fact, remember I mentioned that about 3.5 to $4 billion in card is going to come back on the balance sheet. Now that's -- that's just optics, but that will grow that.  

So, I think the momentum is, I haven't done the math, is that that number should stay at or above the 50% calculation that you cited. Having said all of that, I think you could probably expect to see a little more growth than the average balances on the trading account as Al continues to hire out and build that business, that will result in higher trading account balances. He is about halfway through doing that. And so those numbers will go up a little bit.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And then lastly, any comments with respect to forward sales? They have sort of taken place, that should impact future quarters' results on the portfolio?  

MARC OKEN: Forward sales, yes Well, we did do -- we have -- this will be in the 10Q which is the only reason I am acknowledging it. We have done a small forward sale. So I kind of hinted at that with respect to second quarter but nowhere near a magnitude as big as you saw in the first quarter. We were swapping out some mortgage loans to a different coupon rate because of concern about prepayment speeds. Got a question on the phone, Randy?  

OPERATOR: Take a question from Nancy Bush, NAB Research.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Hi, good morning, Marc. Could you talk a little bit about Al de Molina's buildout? I think you had 600 million or so that he was going to be given to reinvest and kind of how he is through that and has he paid back the $600 million yet.  

MARC OKEN: Well, has he paid back the $600 million? He's got -- we've giving it until the end of the year, Nancy. Okay, number 675 million. we thinks he -- Al thinks he will spend all that. I mentioned earlier he is about halfway through that. Roughly 50% of that will go into the fixed income platform, roughly 20% into the equities platform, roughly 15% into Investment Banking, and the rest, which is small, somewhere else. We've had, I think, tremendous success in hiring so far from firms all across the street. We found that the brand reputation, Al's leadership have resulted in some great success stories. The two we talk about are our first hires, and that's Mark Warner, who heads up fixed income and equities, and Tommy Conner, who is on the fixed income platform. But there're many -- many others beyond that. There were several months ago.  

So we are about halfway through. And I think the best testimony so far would be in part the re-trending results of the first quarter, a result of some of the hires that he's made there. So, we are real upbeat, real positive about what Al is going to do with our $675 million. And his commitment to Ken, the payback is that he will generate $675 million in revenue to offset that. So it will have neutral P&L impact in 2005.  

NANCY BUSH: So that looks to be about one more quarter of trading?  

MARC OKEN: Well, depends on how you count it. Sounds kind of like you have been talking to Al.  

NANCY BUSH: Will the -- will the buildout be primarily -- the other half buildout be primarily in people or are there systems involved as well?  

MARC OKEN: Well, I don't have -- I am not as good on the answers -- there is three things. I am going to guess at this. It's probably about 60% people. This is pretty close. 60% people. It is probably about 30% technology and then there is another piece of it for occupancy. We will be increasing our headcount in New York. One of the things we did not too long ago was take down half of 50 Rockefeller Center and we are building that out now. Maybe those three components.  

NANCY BUSH: Great, thank you. Okay.  

MARC OKEN: Other questions from the phone, Randy?  

OPERATOR: We have a question from Matt O'Connor from UBS.  

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, thanks.  

MARC OKEN: Hi, Matt.  

MATT O'CONNOR: Hi, Marc. Your deposit rate is increasing a little bit less than 18 other banks, about 20% of the increase from fed funds. I'm just wondering how sustainable do you think this lagging is going forward?  

MARC OKEN: What was the second -- repeat the question?  

MATT O'CONNOR: Just your deposit rates have been increasing a little bit less than we have been seeing at other banks and I'm just wondering how sustainable do you think this deposit lagging under pricing as those rates continue to rise there?  

MARC OKEN: Well, I was looking at our -- actually looking at our forecast the other day and we --- we do show for forecast purposes a little faster acceleration in rates on deposits than we've experienced so far, being able to manage so far. Having said that, I am not sure that's going to happen. I mean, what's going on is that there is huge liquidity out there. So we are able to manage the liability side of our balance sheet quite well. The number, I think, is roughly -- in the last year we have raised rates somewhere around 35% compared to the increase in the fed funds rate. Until there is a big -- a bigger -- even bigger pickup across the board at all banks on the asset side of the balance sheet, I think banks will continue to focus on managing down their liability costs. So, the short answer to your question is there probably will be some increase, but at this point in time I would not think it would be substantial.  

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And also, you point out that you are about at the full run rate of cost savings you had targeted for Fleet, but obviously with the deposits in this conversions still to come, is it fair to assume there's still additional cost savings down the road  

MARC OKEN: I didn't hear the last sentence.  

MATT O'CONNOR: Is it fair to assume there's still some additional cost savings?  

MARC OKEN: Yes, that in fact is true. We still have a full complement of my transition team on board in Boston and we're -- we're working real hard, I will tell you. They start to run off in beginning in June and in July and then August. And the cost will tail off quite substantially toward the end of the third quarter and in the fourth quarter. Now the transition costs were lower in the first quarter, but they will, to your question, pick back up again in the second quarter. I think we will still be below 50%, is my guess. That's our intent. That is Ken's intent for the full year, but there may be some blips during the next three quarters.  

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you.  

MARC OKEN: Phone? Another call from the phone?  

OPERATOR: We will take John Balkind of Fox-Pitt.  

JOHN BALKIND, ANALYST, FOX-PITT: Good morning. Just a couple of questions. One, you put on a fair amount of leverage in terms of tangible capital to get the NII growth this quarter. Would you -- can we expect to see more leverage going forward? And then, two, moving back to Ron's question and compensation accruals, your trading numbers are obviously huge, but the growth in compensation levels in the capital market there, it didn't seem to keep as much pace as we would have thought. Is that a revenue mix issue in that business line?  

MARC OKEN: Yes. It would be revenue mix. I mean, there, obviously, are formulas for each -- for each component of -- of the Capital Markets results. The first question was?  

JOHN BALKIND: In terms of the leverage on the balance sheet to debt NII growth.  

MARC OKEN: When you look, our tangible ratio did drop and the reason would be increase in the size of both the trading account and the securities portfolio, which we were talking about earlier. Every time we get that question, I say that what we focus on with respect to strength of the balance sheet would not be tangible capital. It would be Tier 1, which we absolutely intend to keep above 8%. It was at 8.2% this quarter. It will be parent liquidity, days to funding measure, which is an internal measure. We have huge liquidity in the balance sheet. You can look at our loan-to-deposit ratios which, I think, we are about 84% or thereabouts, and just about any other measure you can think of, we -- we think that if you look at those measures, then the tangible ratio is obsoleted because of the change in -- in accounting rules for acquisitions  

JOHN BALKIND: Great. And then one quick follow-up on the deposit side. You guys did a pretty good job holding the line sequentially given the typical seasonality.  

MARC OKEN: Pretty good? Wasn't it like 12% annualized. I think that gets better than a pretty good, but go ahead.  

JOHN BALKIND: My point is going to be most of that annualized growth is coming into consumer CDs and brokerage CDs. So I'm just wondering what the deposit strategy is going forward?  

MARC OKEN: That is a good question. I am glad you asked it. What you see is a decline in the money markets of some amount and you see an increase in the consumer CDs, and that's -- that's an intentional strategy. As rates rise and customers are seeking higher rates, we are putting them into our flexible no-risk CD which is a nine-month CD that gives them the option of rolling over the CD one time during that time period or exiting it. That has attracted a lot of attention. It is not that much higher rate in the current market and we are retaining customers that way. Not losing a lot of balances net-net from the balance sheet.  

JOHN BALKIND: Great, thanks, Marc.  

MARC OKEN: Okay. Anything else in the room? No questions on the line. I want to thank you for being with us at Bank of America today and we will see you next quarter.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050502e14i000gq
  


 HD
 Q4  2004  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,044 words
   PD
18 January 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2005 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. I'm Kevin Stitt with Investor Relations at Bank of America. Before Ken Lewis and Marc Oken begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial conditions, results, and expectations; and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures, in the financial services industry, and/or legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses. And for additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. Now, let me turn the meeting over to Marc Oken. Marc?  

   TD
MARC OKEN, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Okay, Kevin, thanks. What we're going to do today is I'm going to cover the full year and the fourth quarter and then I'm going to turn the mic over to our CEO, Ken Lewis, and he's going give you the outlook for 2005. So let me start off by saying that although 2004 was a pretty challenging year for us, we're very pleased with the results. It was a very successful year as you can see from the numbers, especially in the context of the fact that we had the Fleet integration which is going very well and we'll talk about that some. But I think overall, 2004 demonstrates the Company's ability to properly position itself, its balance sheet, throughout a rising rate environment the entire year, the diversity of our businesses, our attention to expenses, and our ability to realize the potential of an expanding footprint with Fleet.  

So in this context, what we think happened is that our associates stepped up and they achieved not just great financial results but they moved our operating performance level up significantly in 2004. A minimal as evidenced throughout the year in rising customer satisfaction scores, more on that in a minute, growth in retail products sold, including checking accounts, savings accounts and credit cards. increasing new business in our commercial banking segment in the fourth quarter and greater market shares in certain areas of investment banking.  

Now, reported diluted earnings per share for the full year as you've seen was $3.59 on net income of $14.1 billion, versus $3.57 for Bank of America in 2003. Included in earnings for the year were approximately $411 million after-tax of merger and restructuring charges, and that reduced our earnings by $.11 per share. Excluding these charges, earnings for Bank of America were $3.80 per diluted share, and that's an increase of 6 percent versus 2003. Earnings in 2004 allowed us to return about $9.3 billion in capital to our shareholders in 2004 in the form of dividends, and those totaled $6.5 billion; and net share repurchases, and that was just under $3 billion. Reported earnings per share for the fourth quarter were $.94 per diluted share, or $3.8 billion. And that included the merger and restructuring charges which equaled $.04 per share in the fourth quarter. If you exclude the merger and restructuring charges in each quarter, earnings for the fourth quarter were $.98 per diluted share, and that's an increase of 3 percent versus the $.94 -- $.95 per share on the same basis in the third quarter, and it's also an increase of 7 percent, versus a year ago, when we reported $.92 per share.  

And most of my comparisons going forward are going to be on a link quarter basis because of the purchase accounting from the Fleet acquisition that closed on April 1, and that kind of makes it difficult to make annual comparisons; so I'm going to do link quarter.  

Total revenue increased 9 percent from the third quarter, driven by increases in just about every revenue line item. Non-interest expense was up 4 percent in the fourth quarter versus third quarter, as decreases from merger cost savings and our infrastructure initiatives were offset by our normal year-end expense increase in several categories; and I'll talk a little bit about that later.  

The combination of revenue and expense growth improved the efficiency ratio in the fourth quarter, if you exclude merger and restructuring charges, to 50.7 percent; moving a little closer to our ultimate goal of being below 50 percent for efficiency ratio on an ongoing basis.  

Our average loans grew 2.5 percent from third quarter levels, that's pretty good, driven by increases in all the major consumer loan categories, and several of the businesses that are included in commercial banking. Our average core domestic deposits increased 3 percent quarter-over-quarter, or $18 billion; 10 billion of that was consumer and 8 billion commercial in the third quarter. Commercial credit quality continued to improve. The tier one ratio closed at 8.10 percent, above our benchmark, our self-imposed floor of 8 percent.  

During the quarter, a total of 34.1 million shares were repurchased and that offsets the issuance of 31.5 million shares from options exercised in the fourth quarter of 2004. Now issuance activity, you might remember, was a little higher because an employee option plan vested in the fourth quarter resulting in 56 million options vested across much of the work force in the old Bank of America.  

Now, before we talk about the individual businesses, let's just deal upfront with net interest income and yields, since I know this is on your mind for our industry; this quarter and in 2005.  

Now in the fourth quarter, on a fully tax equivalent basis, net interest income of $7.96 billion, rose 1.5 percent on a quarter-to-quarter basis from the third quarter. That's point number one. Driving the increase in net interest income was the impact that I've already talked about of increased loan and deposit levels offset by lower trading-related contribution. I think you can see that in the materials we customarily hand out. During the quarter, the net interest yield decreased by 12 basis points. But, a higher level of trading-related assets combined with a lower contribution from those assets to net interest income drove down the net interest yield by 13 basis points during the quarter. So, without the impact of the trading-related assets that I've just described, the net interest yield was essentially flat in the fourth quarter.  

Now, during the quarter, we generated $101 million in securities gains versus $732 million in the third quarter. At the end of the year, net unrealized losses in the available for sale securities portfolio improved from $836 million loss at the end of the third quarter to $372 million at the end of the fourth quarter. You always ask us that question, so I wanted to be upfront with all of the aspects of NII, how we did during the quarter, impact on our balance sheet, et cetera.  

Now at the end of September, Bank of America was positioned in anticipation of higher rates with some flattening in line with the forward yield curve. During the fourth quarter, the curve did flatten, as you know, as the Fed tightened rates. Currently, we anticipate additional rate hikes with continued flattening, once again in line with the forward yield curve. Our overall interest rate risk position is basically unchanged from what we told you in September. That is to say, we're positioned to benefit should the yield curve end up being steeper than is currently reflected in the forward curve.  

Now, another metric I'll give you because you always ask, is what would happen if there are 100 basis points parallel shift upward from the forward yield curve, and we're about in the same place as we were at the end of September; it would have a negative 1.5 percent impact to net interest income over 12 months. But, as I also always caution you, that assumes we would do nothing, which is not the case. But the point is, our posture is essentially the same as at the end of September. If you think about it, we did have a flattening of the forward curve in the fourth quarter from what we thought in the third quarter, and the company benefited. Net interest income was up. Net interest yield was essentially flat.  

Now let me talk about the results of our individual businesses. Reserve levels for credit losses in each of the businesses were largely impacted, as always, by growth in the portfolio and/or continued risk improvement during the quarter. For instance, reserves would be increased in those areas that are growing, such as cards, and reduced with continued improvement in the credit risk profile and more moderate growth, such as the commercial book or the large corporate portfolios. Consequently, earnings in the individual segments include the provision benefits of, both improved economic conditions which we continue to see and risk profile, and the impacts of portfolio growth.  

Now, as it has all year, consumer and small business continues to be the consistent driver of earnings for Bank of America. Consumer and small business earned $1.8 billion with a return on equity of 17 percent. Versus the third quarter, earnings increased 5 percent on revenue growth in the business of 8 percent, even with a higher provision of -- for credit losses which would have been driven by card. The provision was up $243 million to increase-- to account for net -- increased net charge-offs, card growth, and the reserve impact of an increase in minimum payments that we implemented due from credit card customers and I'll give you just a bit about that-- more about that in a moment.  

Now, all year long, we've had success in growing checking accounts. In the fourth quarter alone, the new checking accounts increased 596,000 and that brings the year to date additions of net new checking accounts for Bank of America to 2.1 million. Similarly, net new savings accounts opened in the quarter were 729,000, and we had total openings for the year of 2.6 million. The number of active online bank customers hit 12.4 million, double the number we had at this time last year, and we've got a penetration rate of 50 percent of our households that have DDA's. And importantly, our active bill pay customers have growth 78 percent in 2004, to 5.8 million, with bill payments of more than $25 billion in the fourth quarter. The increase in checking accounts is driven by greater customer satisfaction, banking center productivity, focus marketing, and new products.  

Fee income in consumer and small business was up 25 percent over third quarter results. Service charges rose 3 percent from the third quarter. Card income increased 9 percent from the third quarter, reflecting higher merchant processing fees and higher interchange fees. We did have the addition of National Processing in mid-October, and that represented about two-thirds of the increase of $83 million.  

Now, mortgage banking income went from a negative in the third quarter, that was dismal, to a positive, due to greater production income and a much lower level of valuation adjustments than occurred in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, first mortgage originations were 18.3 billion versus 16.9 billion in the third quarter. We've got a locked pipeline at the end of the quarter that's similar, or in line with the end of September. Home equity lending, another bright spot, has continued to benefit from our renewed focus that you'll see continue in 2005. We had 7 percent growth in outstanding balances from the end of the third quarter.  

If you look at credit quality for this business, card charge-offs grew because of card portfolio growth, the return of previously securitized loans to the balance sheet, and the increase in minimum payment requirements. Credit quality in other consumer products remained strong.  

Both charge-offs and delinquents this quarter were affected by a change we made in the second quarter of 2004 which increased minimum payments required from cardholders with an outstanding balance. This change in terms is a result of expected changes across the industry regarding minimum payment requirements. It's a bit more conservative stance that negatively impacted certain accounts and the impact will continue through the first three quarters with respect to the charge-off ratio of 2005. Through the provision in the fourth quarter of 2004, we did reserve for all the increased charge-offs that we anticipate in 2005. To size that, it's about $150 million in 2005.  

Now, managed consumer credit card losses were 5.90 percent during the quarter, that's up from 5.48 percent in the third quarter and I think it's safe to say that all of that increase, fourth versus third, was the result of charge-offs related to our new minimum payment policy. Thirty-day and 90-day credit card delinquencies increased from third quarter levels by 7 basis points and 15 basis points respectively.  

Now, let's look at the commercial bank. Good news here, and that includes small business banking. Earnings for the fourth quarter were $887 million, and that's up 8 percent from the company's third quarter results. The quarter was marked by a clear uptick in lending towards the end of the quarter, after the election was resolved. Now, driving the 2 percent average loan growth for the quarter was activity in all the businesses, including middle market banking, commercial real estate, business capital, dealer financial services, and our leasing business. Average deposits were also up 2 percent from the third quarter, and that's driven by seasonal activity in higher escrow balances.  

Earnings benefited from a revenue increase of 7 percent and another lower provision due to improved credit quality and economic conditions. Included in the other income were gains of about $70 million associated with various asset dispositions during the quarter in the leasing business.  

Credit costs for the commercial bank were again down. We had continued improvement in the risk profile and that gave rise to additional reserve release. Non-performing assets, down 17 percent for--from last quarter in that business. It represented 44 basis points of the loan and lease portfolio.  

Charge-offs were 45 million, essentially flat with the third quarter. The net charge-off ratio was 12 basis points during the quarter, same as the third quarter, but down 19 basis points from a year ago.  

Let's look at GCIB, Global Corporate and Investment Bank. Their earnings in the fourth quarter increased to $596 million, and it benefited from a 7 percent increase in revenue and lower provision, while their expenses were up 2 percent. Revenue increases were driven by a number of categories, including trading-related, and investment banking, somewhat offset by lower service charges. Investment banking fees were up 7 percent from the third quarter to $450 million. Advisory fees increased 42 percent to $94 million driven by an overall pickup in M&A in '04. Securities underwriting was down a bit, 5 percent, to $209 million, as a 48 percent pickup in equity underwriting was more than offset by lower ABS and high grade deal activity. High yield fees were in line with third quarter results. Syndication fees increased 9 percent. And as expected, the investment banking pipeline is seeing a shift away from fixed income underwriting toward equities and M&A.  

Total trading related revenue for the fourth quarter was $650 million, and that's an increase of $65 million, or 10 percent. FX was up 42 percent, or $69 million, to $233 million. Decreases from interest rate contracts to $93 million and fixed income to $283 million, were more than offset by increases in equity to $75 million and commodities to $33 million. And during the quarter, we did increase the level of credit default swaps used to hedge our portfolio because of attractive pricing. Because cost spreads tightened during the quarter, however, the mark-to-market of these swaps had a negative impact of $67 million, versus $54 million in the third quarter; and note that those numbers are reflected in trading. Investment brokerage revenue was up 10 percent versus the third quarter. Credit quality in GCIB continued to improve. They had net credit recoveries of $25 million in the fourth quarter, versus recoveries of $6 million in the third quarter. And that reflects an improved risk environment and increased liquidity among those businesses.  

Total large corporate nonperforming assets were down 25 percent from the third quarter and represented 1.25 percent of our portfolio in that business. Since the end of last year, GCIB nonperformers are down $589 million, or 58 percent. This continuing improvement in credit quality of the large corporate portfolio drove additional releases and credit reserves in the quarter for that business also. Average loans and leases in GCIB dropped $1.5 billion and they're now roughly at the $34 billion level.  

Now our fourth core business is wealth and investment management. Earnings in the quarter for wealth and investment management were up slightly, 2 percent from the third quarter, as they had revenue increases of 5 percent; but they were offset somewhat--so strong revenue increases, by an expense increase of 6 percent due mainly to alignment of incentive compensation in the business. Remember that wealth and investment management also includes our premier banking group which has a significant loan and deposit book. For the quarter, premier banking continued to show good momentum with loans increasing 19 percent to $18 billion, and deposits up more than 20 percent to $75 billion. Now, much of this is -- does constitute a migration from the consumer bank during integration for higher levels of customer service, which are intended. Our asset management fees were up 2 percent, offset somewhat by lower brokerage fees. Assets under management increased in the quarter 5 percent to $451.5 billion. Some of that was market valuation and some net inflows and, as I recall, it's about half and half.  

Equities represented the largest jump, up $18 billion, representing increases across our mutual fund families, while money market and other short-term funds also increased by about $3.7 billion.  

Okay, let me comment on equity investments, within principal investing because you see that line item increasing in the fourth quarter. It had gains of $371 million in the quarter. That particular business is included in the fifth business, corporate other. As you know, we've been saying, results in this business area have improved in the last half of 2004, after three years of dismal results. Now, this quarter's activity reflected cash gains-- these are the components, of $263 million and positive fair value adjustments, net of impairments, of $108 million. Going forward, we think results in equity investments in 2005 should continue to result throughout the year from improvements in the economy and improved liquidity in those business areas.  

As I mentioned earlier, the efficiency ratio for the entire company was 50.7 percent, after excluding merger and restructuring charges. While revenue growth and additional cost saves did have a positive impact on this ratio, we had some unusual items that had a negative impact on the ratio and I think you can see some of them in the P&L; and let me comment. Now versus the third quarter, before merger expenses and restructuring charges, expenses were up in the fourth quarter by $262 million. Additional cost saves from the Fleet integration efforts were approximately $85 million versus third quarter results. So that's the increase in cost saves --addition in cost saves in the quarter. And that brings the full-year reductions from the Fleet integration to $909 million.  

Pushing expenses higher during the quarter, we increased litigation reserves in GCIB for various matters by about $70 million. Okay? We posted an additional $60 million in reserves separate from litigation for several specific non credit-related losses. We also had the NPC acquisition, as you remember. Now that closed in mid-October, and that adds about $61 million in expense to the third quarter. Remaining increases were seen in professional fees, data processing, and telecommunications. Some of that is cyclical, it will vary from quarter-to-quarter, data processing and telecommunications, the professional fees traditionally historically have risen in the fourth quarter as our professional firms supporting us get their bills paid by December 31. Now except for the addition of NPC, we do not expect many of these expenses to reappear in the first quarter.  

Finally, let me make a couple of comments on credit quality from a corporate perspective and then I'll turn it over to Ken. Even with the inclusion of Fleet, overall NPA levels, in dollar terms, were the lowest since the end of 1997; dropping 13 percent from third quarter levels. Criticized exposure was down 15 percent from third quarter levels. And provision for credit losses during the quarter was $706 million, but we had net charge-offs of $845 million. Driving the difference between charge-offs and provision were the improved credit quality metrics I described in both commercial banking and GCIB, along with improved economic conditions that resulted in a release in reserves; partially offset, finally, by growth in card reserves, as I mentioned earlier. So now, let me turn the program over to Ken, and he's going to give you the outlook for 2005.  

KEN LEWIS, CEO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thank you, Marc. Let me reiterate what Marc said, I thought it was a very, very good quarter. I always -- EPS is obviously the right number to look at, but I always look at the -- just the sheer raw numbers as well. And if you look at the raw after-tax number, minus the restructuring and merger charges, you see that that's a little over $4 billion after-tax; the first time we've ever done that. And there'll probably be only a handful of companies in the world that will make that much money in the quarter. So, great quarter, great year. And I you congratulate my teammates for--for that.  

Before we get started I want to test your memories. And let's just focus on two numbers. One is the $3.80 per share number that Marc mentioned that would be the pre-merger and restructuring charges. Can anybody remember what the stand-alone Bank of America consensus was in October prior to the Fleet acquisition? It was $3.60. That doesn't happen very often. New shares issued, going through a merger, and do better than the consensus prior to an acquisition. I've made my point. I'll get on with things.  

Looking forward into 2005, it's clearly an improvement from last year, due to the progress we've made on several fronts. Our efforts with the Fleet integration are going as smoothly as we could have hoped. Over the three quarters since the acquisition closed, net new checking accounts in the former Fleet franchise have grown 174,000, versus 35,000 for all of 2003. While net new savings accounts showed similar results, increasing 193,000. Premier banking continues an aggressive rollout across the northeast. 442 client managers have been added over the past three quarters along with a designated call center to support the premiere client base. More than 125,000 consumer banking clients have been -- have become premier customers. Most of the outstanding credit card have already been reissued with the rest being issued by February.  

Customer day one activities, since August of last year, resulting in the -- resulted in the unveiling of the Bank of America brand in markets from Delaware to Maine and from western New York to Cape Cod. In all, more than 1,500 banking centers and 3,500 ATMs were rebranded involving more than 20,000 signs. Approximately 250,000 Quicken clients were converted to the Bank of America investment services clearing platform. Several systems conversions were successfully completed, including the Fleet general ledger, accounts payable, and fixed asset systems. While we have several important projects to complete in 2005, we are extremely pleased with our accomplishments so far.  

Last January, when we gave you our outlook for 2004, we were upbeat because we felt positive about the economy in the short term, rather than hoping for some upturn in the second half of the year. If you'll recall, I think 2001 and 2002, we started saying we'll see an upturn in the second half of the year, which we did not--which we did not see. This year is no different except that we have a clearer picture that the economy has and is making progress.  

For all of 2005, we think GDP growth will be between 3.5 percent and 4 percent, and be quite steady over the year. Like the rest of you, we expect the Fed to raise rates several times during the year, resulting in some additional flattening in the yield curve. We expect a modest rise in core inflation, healthy consumption growth and improved employment levels. With that outlook, we feel good about our prospects in 2005. Especially given the good head start we had in the fourth quarter.  

Now all comparisons I make to full year 2004 will include Fleet's results in the full year, versus the reported numbers which only include Fleet for three quarters. You'll want to refer to the 8-K we filed this morning defining the pro forma numbers for 2004. From a balance sheet perspective, we are looking for continued loan growth in 2005. For both credit card and home equity, we are targeting growth in the high teens to 20 percent. Almost half of the credit card growth will be due to about $4 billion in securitizations returning to the balance sheet. Residential mortgages will grow as well but will be determined by our ALM strategy. Direct/indirect consumer loans are targeted for mid-single-digit growth and we think commercial loan levels will be up about 5 percent. Other earn earning assets should increase from year end levels as trading assets are expected to move higher as we take on more institutional customer flow in the matched book.  

After attractive core deposit growth in 2004, deposit growth in 2005 is expected to dip back to mid-single-digits as rates rise. This deposit growth will drive an increase in our ALM portfolio which is comprised of securities, residential mortgages, and derivatives including swaps. Asset liability management, as always will impact both our balance sheet levels and security gains losses as we continue to balance between the management of interest rate risk and economic reward in response to ever-changing market conditions. Although security gains will be significantly below levels in 2004, we do foresee the potential for some gains at least in the first half of the year.  

Having said all this, the expected loan, deposit and trading related asset growth along with ALM management in a tough interest rate environment could add about 4 percent to net interest income on FTE basis in 2005, from $31.2 billion in 2004. On the fee side, we are looking for continued positive trends in our consumer and commercial businesses in the area of service charges and card income. Card income will have the benefit of the National Processing acquisition, which closed in the middle of October as Marc just said. Natural Processing adds about $100 million a quarter, to the card income line. Even with the projected decline in consumer real estate lending across the industry, mortgage banking income is expected to be higher in 2005 due to the MSR impairment and valuation adjustments that brought down results in 2004.  

Wealth and investment management is expected to show double digit increases in fee revenue given the successful integration of both operations in 2004, improved markets, and increased leverage from expanded distribution that we've been adding over the past several years. In Global Corporate Investment Banking, we are looking for continued strength in investment banking, along with better results in trading, just as we saw in the fourth quarter. While we don't expect an increase in fixed income investment banking activity, we don't expect a material drop-off. The economic environment should have a positive impact on syndicated lending, equities, and M&A activity. As Marc said earlier, equity investment should continue to benefit in 2005, given the improved trends we saw in the second half of 2004. With these assumptions, about net interest income and fee revenue, we are looking for total revenue growth, excluding security gains, to be in the range of 7 to 9 percent that we target every year.  

Now remember, this compares to his versus 2004 numbers that include Fleet's results for all four quarters. If Fleet were included in the first quarter of 2004, on a pro forma basis, total revenue for 2004 would have been approximately $52.8 billion on an FTE basis. If you annualize the fourth quarter revenue numbers, you have an increase versus 2004, including Fleet for the whole year, of almost 6 percent. Granted you might want to take-- or make some minor adjustments to the fourth quarter, but a big chunk of the growth appears to be embedded in the numbers. On the expense front, we expect levels in 2005 to benefit from additional efficiencies from the Fleet acquisition, along with the expense initiatives at legacy Bank of America. If you remember, our cost save target involving Fleet was $1.8 billion pre-tax through 2005. As Marc mentioned earlier we're halfway there through 2004, and on a year-to-year basis, we have an additional $900 million of reduction in 2005. If you include Fleet expense in the first quarter of 2004, full-year expense levels would have been approximately $28.5 billion in 2004, before merger and restructuring charges.  

Having said that, we will continue to invest resources in those businesses that are producing and will produce profitable long-term revenue growth. In addition, the NPC acquisition will add approximately $350 million to expense in 2005. Given these dynamics, we think expense levels in 2005 should be close to the levels we experienced in 2004, given our target revenue growth. Another way to look at it would be to annualize the fourth quarter expense numbers, excluding merger and acquisitions-- or merger and restructuring charges, which already has the bulk of the targeted cost saves, and much of NPC already included. That annualized number is $28.2 billion and you would add some additional expense for inflation, revenue growth but deduct some number for the fourth quarter surge. You end up, once again, close to the levels we experienced in 2004.  

The efficiency ratio was 50.7 percent in the fourth quarter, excluding merger and restructuring charges. And if we hit our targeted expense levels, that efficiency ratio should be at 50 percent or below. The estimated tax rate in 2005, before the FTE adjustment, is expected to be around 33 percent. And with the adjustment, around 35 percent.  

Turning to credit quality, we feel comfortable about the asset-- credit quality picture going into 2005. However, higher managed credit card receivables and the seasoning of accounts, while benefiting net interest income and fee revenue, will drive an increase in managed consumer credit card net losses. Reported credit card net charge-offs will also be higher as approximately $4 billion in securitizations come back to the balance sheet in 2005. The first half of 2005 will also be impacted, as Marc said, by the increase in minimum payment requirements that he discussed earlier. Taking all of this into regard, we're expecting actual reported credit card charge-offs to increase from $2.4 billion in 2004 to more than $3 billion in 2005. Both commercial and large corporate charge-offs should increase from low levels in the second half of 2004 to more normalized levels in 2005, or at least by 2006. What normalized means is a good question and you'll have to use your own judgment in that case.  

With higher consumer net charge-offs from credit card growth, more normalized commercial charge-offs, and not as a dramatic improvement in commercial credit quality as we experienced in 2004; we expect 2005 provision expense to be significantly higher than 2004 results.  

Addressing capital trends, even with our growth, we expect to keep our tier one ratio in excess of 8 percent in 2005. Given our earnings power, this still provides plenty of room to pay an attractive dividend and repurchase shares in excess of options issued. Given our outlook for the economy, our results in the fourth quarter, and despite additional flattening in the yield curve, we think that EPS results in 2005 should at least have a 4 in front of the number. Actual variation around that number will be driven by the usual culprits: the economy, financial markets and credit quality. My remarks do exclude the impact of any merger-related charges in 2005 which we are estimated--which are estimated to be approximately $300 million after-tax, or $.07 a share. As the year proceeds, we'll update you with any additional changes in our assumptions for 2005 that are material. Now I'll open it up for questions, I appreciate your attention.  

OPERATOR: [Operator Instructions]  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: --business--consumer-related business, maybe, in some of the areas, internationally.  

KEN LEWIS: Well, for the last several years, really, after the Nation's Bank/Bank of America merger we have been very focused on rationalizing international exposure and focusing in on things that really matter and eliminating things that I call dangling participles that can get you in trouble in the long term; and that has been going on. That-- after the Fleet merger continued to go on, we've said we'll focus on three countries and we're getting out of some other countries in Latin America, Argentina, because we have to, Chile and Brazil and so you'll see us get out of, as I said, those other countries. Then in a--that Fleet was in. Then in a broader sense, we are looking at following our customers on the wholesale side and following their needs, and so global treasury services, debt capital raising, are important to us, and we're building out-- continuing to build out our capabilities in Europe and in Asia as well.  

And that will -- that initiative is a sub part of that $675 million that we're spending. But a very focused effort. We don't think we have to be in every country. But we want to be important in being able to serve customers on the corporate and investment banking side in particular areas.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I wondered if I can follow-up on that international question. Does that mean that you're basically going to stay in Argentina, Brazil, and Chile and grow those franchises? And then secondarily, what's your outlook for opportunities in China?  

KEN LEWIS: We think, particularly, Brazil and Chile, give us some on the ground opportunities in building out our retail capabilities. We do not -- we are not going to increase our cross-border exposure, in fact we're going to continue to reduce it. And so to the extent we drive revenues and earnings in Latin America, it'll be with more of a traditional bank -- banking on the ground presence and building on our strengths there. As you may know, Bank Boston has a very good reputation in what we would call the premier segment in Brazil, in particular, and we're continuing to organically grow that. But again, bringing down our cross-border exposure and to the extent we serve multi-national clients, doing it from a treasury services standpoint, not lending-- not lending money.  

China, the accuracy of the numbers coming out of the -- and progress there is glacial. And so that to me seems to be the first thing that we have to see, is progress on the -- the credibility of the numbers, and some international sanctions saying that the numbers are accurate. And so until that -- until that happens, I don't see much happening in terms of us looking at investments beyond what we have. Now, we do have 16 branches in Hong Kong, we have a branch-- a retail branch in Shanghai, have applied for a retail branch in at least one other city; and so we'll be building that out but that's not exactly going to move the needle and we will continue to develop our global treasury services and debt raising capabilities there as well. But I think investment potential is still a ways off. Yeah, Ron?  

RON, AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thanks, Ken. When were you talking about the earnings per share outlook, you know, starting with '04, but cautioning that included restructuring charges it sounds like very low 4's and comparing that with 380, also excluding charges; that's only about 5 percent growth which doesn't sound very ambitious given the way you described the economy-- the way you think the economy is going to look this year. So could you elaborate on that?  

KEN LEWIS: Yeah, I think--I think you have to put that in context of a very, very low year in charge-offs, and in context of expecting substantially less security gains. You know, 2.1 billion in 2004. So I think if you -- if you look at overcoming that, and then getting that kind of -- that kind of performance, it looks a lot better, Ron. And, in fact, you can translate that and look at that--the kind of operating leverage you would be getting with expenses being flat and 7 to 9 percent revenue growth, you know, I would take that for a lot of years going forward, and driving down the efficiency ratio. We, next year, have a chance to be the most efficient and effective, meaning doing great things with our customers, bank in the world; and so I think that -- I think that number, given the composition this year, would be a very good number.  

RON: Do you think you can keep the gap between revenue and expense growth that you just described, or what do you think's more realistic going forward after all the Fleet merger saves--  

KEN LEWIS: I don't think you could get a 7 to 9 percent operating leverage every year. No, I do not. I think -- I think 3 to 4 percent operating leverage driving toward a 10 percent EPS gain is what we would be more looking for, and I think going forward, it's going to be all about managing our operating leverage. And because you can -- you get the right answer with EPS growth when do you that. Yeah?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Exclusive of the impact of securitization changes and bringing more loans back on balance sheet, do you see any changes in the state of the consumer that cause you to believe that charges will be dramatically higher next year?  

KEN LEWIS: Two things. One, we obviously slice it and dice it every way that we can because we're always looking for that. And we just can't find big holes in the -- in credit quality toward the consumer. We have this one anomaly, so to speak, in terms of changing, you know, minimum payment. But if you think about it, employment levels have not increased as fast as we would like them, but they have been increasing pretty significantly. Average income growth has continued to go -- to increase. And we expect that to continue.  

Secondly, I would make the point that we are -- we are a prime and super-prime bank. We do not go into the sub prime areas. And so we're in a pretty nice sweet spot as it would relate to consumer credit quality going forward, I think. But we don't see any chinks in the armor at this point.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. Just a little clarity around the margin. Ended at 318, and I think if I heard the discussion right, we should get some pick back up in Q1 from the trading assets. Could you flush out the duration on the securities portfolio and any guidance on the margin in 2005?  

KEN LEWIS: Marc or Kevin, you want to --  

MARC OKEN: The duration on the securities portfolio?  

KEVIN STITT: 3.6. I don't know if you should assume, given if the level of trading assets stay the same and contribution is the same, I don't know if you necessarily should expect a bounce-back in the margin--or the yield.  

KEN LEWIS: And again, we say this a lot, but we manage to NII, not to net interest yield because of the fluctuations in the trading assets. So the guidance was about 4 percent growth in that line item-- NII.  

KEVIN STITT: Duration 3.37.  

KEN LEWIS: 3.37 duration on the securities portfolio. Questions on the phone?  

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Two questions. If I'm looking at my graph correctly, it looks like Fleet net new checking accounts in the legacy Fleet franchise declined from 3 Q to 4 Q. I'm wondering if there's just a seasonal element in there or if there was sort of a burst on day one in third quarter whatever? And secondly, Marc, can you give us any color on--in GCIB on this increase of 60 million in a reserve for sort of other non-credit losses? Can you talk a little bit more about that?  

MARC OKEN: Nancy, on the second one, no, I think that's -- we give you that information just so you can sort out what's going to recur and not recur. It's actually a couple different things and, as a matter of policy, we don't get into the details on those things. So I can't give you any more than to tell you that we wouldn't expect those expenses to recur in '05. And the first question --  

KEN LEWIS: Yeah, Nancy, on the first one, I don't know if there's some -- if there is something in there because of the fourth quarter and the holiday season, but the goal for the northeast would be higher in 2005 than 2004. So we would not -- we would expect it to continue to increase, not decrease.  

NANCY BUSH: If you could just -- just as an addition to that, how much or how many staff from the southeast went up to Fleet to sort of initiate the brand, et cetera, et cetera? And, you know, are there still members of the southeastern staff there, or is Fleet pretty much running on its own--own steam at this point?  

MARC OKEN: Nancy, let me answer it in terms of the transition. You got to -- you have to keep in mind that we're still not finished with the Fleet transition. We've got -- we rolled the brand out. That's done. But what's left in the next seven months is the conversion of the underlying customer platforms. There is a team of about 400 associates who are more or less full-time on the Fleet transition that worked for Ken and I, and they're from all over the country. They're veterans in transitions, conversions, and a number of those would be from the southeast, but I can't tell you exactly how many. The other thing to keep in mind, of course, is that Ken made the decision to move the headquarters for asset management-- wealth and investment management to Boston, and a number of Fleet associates would be in the process of moving to New England as a part of that decision.  

KEN LEWIS: Nancy, additionally, you know, we didn't -- Fleet did not have a premier banking segment. Would he did move a woman named Julie Castle (ph) there to run premier banking for us in the northeast. We also have-- the head of consumer banking, came from the midwest, to run consumer banking for the old Fleet franchise. And so there are some individuals that are inter--interdispersed in the northeast from across the franchise and I've forgotten where Julie was at the time she left, but it may have been the Northwest. But -- so we do have some of that going on with leadership positions that would know the way we do things.  

NANCY BUSH: Yeah, I'm thinking just more in terms of the transition team. So they'll be in place sort of for the rest of '05 basically?  

KEN LEWIS: It will start to wind down in July. But key members of the team, you know, my most senior people, one's from Atlanta, one's from San Francisco, they're more or less from all over the country.  

OPERATOR: Carol Berger, Crest Investments.  

CAROL BERGER, ANALYST, CREST INVESTMENTS: Hi, I'm not sure I completely understand your comments on the minimum payments for the credit cards. In terms of why that lifts charge-offs. I mean other than the fact that anybody goes delinquent just owes you more, but the balance doesn't change. Why would that --  

MARC OKEN: Well, in fact, it does, Carol. You know, first of all, as I mentioned in my comments, it's part of an industrywide trend. We think that all banks in this business either have done it or will be doing it in 2005. The objective of it is to avoid negative amortization of cardholders accounts. So we've adjusted minimum payments in a way that the monthly payments will preclude that from happening. It's a conservative measure that, you know, is the right thing to do for the cardholder and the Company and that was our intent.  

CAROL BERGER: Yeah, I'm still not getting why it affects charge-offs. Because if the loan goes delinquent and 90 days past due, you're charging off the whole balance, why would changing the minimum payment change the charge-off?  

MARC OKEN: It is not a Draconian change or increase in the amount of the payments, but you know, we estimate our charge-offs based on fairly granular calculations, and we assume by raising the minimum payments for some of our customers, that will in the next four quarters, including this quarter, result in a slight uptick in charge-offs.  

CAROL BERGER: Okay. So you're saying that the consumer just won't be able to afford it? The new minimum balance, and therefore will go delinquent? That's part of your assumption, yes?  

MARC OKEN: That's correct.  

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, UBS.  

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, there was a large increase in the non-interest bearing deposits linked quarter and I was just wondering, it seems like it said GCIB. Is that seasonal?  

KEN LEWIS: I couldn't hear the question. Would you repeat the question, Matt?  

MATT O'CONNOR: Oh, sorry, there seems to be a large increase in the non-interest bearing deposit linked quarter. And it appears that it might be at GCIB and I was just wondering if that's mostly seasonal?  

KEN LEWIS: It could be a couple of things. Kevin is telling us that we did have an increase in the quarter in escrow balances on commercial real estate, I guess GTS balances are not in there -- are they in that caption? GTS balances would be up. Treasury services-- You had a little bit of a switch from fees to balance -- balances, which caused a little bit of it.  

MARC OKEN: So if you look at their numbers, GCIB's, you'll see the fees are down a little bit for the reason Ken just said.  

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And just in general, your deposit rates, there doesn't seem to have been that much movement from 3 Q to 4 Q and I was just wondering if you can comment on what you're seeing on some of the competition on rates.  

KEN LEWIS: The interest rates?  

MATT O'CONNOR: And do you think there will be more of a pricing going forward?  

KEN LEWIS: Well, if I understood your question, you know, what you can expect from Bank of America, and probably from the industry, is a lot of discipline in pricing. I think you've seen it so far. I think you'll see it in 2005. And there's huge liquidity in the market. And as long as that's there, and we don't see a significant increase in demand for lending, then we'll be able to demonstrate that pricing. And that's one of the things that will allow us to successfully deal with the head wind on interest rate compression in 2005 and has in the past.  

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just lastly, if I may, the earnings from your swaps seem to have increased a little bit and I was just wondering if you could give us your swap position at the end of the quarter?  

KEN LEWIS: Yeah, the Q comes out February 15 and we'll have all of that in the 10-Q.  

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay.  

KEN LEWIS: Any further questions from the room-- I think we're done on the phone. Yes?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I guess I would like a little more -- I know you're leaving it up to us, but could you sort of repeat what you said about commercial losses, basically, or provisioning?  

KEN LEWIS: They have been -- yes, they have been abnormally low in provision being-- for two reasons: charge-offs being low; but then, secondly, a dramatic increase in credit quality as Marc outlined and so you had two factors going forward there. You had MPA's coming down, had classified coming down. That affects your reserve and then-- or release of reserves, and you've got very low charge-offs. We expect both those to be not as good in 2005, and getting back to more normalized levels, and more normalized by historical standards, it could be 2006. But certainly, they'll be higher in charge-offs and provision will be higher in 2005 than 2004 from all that we can see.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And you seem to say something about the second half, though, when you first made the comment. Did you say any difference between the first half and the second half in commercial?  

KEN LEWIS: Talking about the performance in the second half of the year of 2004.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I see.  

KEN LEWIS: --as the basis for it.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: You also said that you expect very good equity gains again. Now you had a very strong equity gains in the fourth quarter, you don't presume that level of equity gains going forward that you had in the fourth quarter, do you?  

KEN LEWIS: If I had to guess at a more normalized-- or a level that you should look at, it would be more like the third quarter than the fourth quarter. You're right.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: My question, one of the most recurring and persistent questions which is always associated with Bank of America, is its appetite for acquisitions. Of course we're all aware of the 10 percent barrier domestically. But internationally or by other types of lines of business, what is the current appetite?  

KEN LEWIS: Well, we've gone from a posture in pre-1998, from thinking that we had a strategic imperative and we wanted to be a coast-to-coast bank, we wanted to get size and scale. Since that point, we have done that. If you actually look at market cap, net income, and even asset size, since that time, we have grown that bank again. And so certainly, we have size and scale. To the extent that we don't have it in some -- in some parts of the business, like GCIB and equity M&A and certain pieces, as you know, we're building that out, with the $675 million initiative. So we're a bank that is not facing a strategic imperative. We are a bank that has -- that whose management team has most of the network tied up in Bank of America stock. Going forward, three years ago, we changed our compensation policies so that 70 percent of my compensation is Bank of America stock, 50 percent of my direct reports is Bank of America stock.  

Even then, the vesting of that is three-year cliff vesting. And even after that, when an executive would exercise an option, they would have to keep the net proceeds another three years. And so that -- that percentage of their net income and our net income is going to be growing. I can't think of a more friendly investor-oriented management team than, for the most part, a bunch of people who have come from modest backgrounds, who have all of the net worth tied up in Bank of America. And so that is -- that is the environment in which we are operating now. And only if there was overwhelming arithmetic would we think of another merger or acquisition. Yes? On the phone, yes.  

OPERATOR: John Balkind, Fox-Pitt.  

JOHN BALKIND, ANALYST, FOX-PITT: Good morning. Just a housekeeping question. The other income line was up significantly linked quarter and I may have missed this earlier but I was wondering if you could just let us know if there's any unusual items in that line item.  

MARC OKEN: Yeah, this is Marc. In my comments was it's higher than a normal year as you shouldn't annualize that for next year. There's just 4 or 5 smaller asset sales, the only one I mentioned specifically was the sale of some assets in the leasing company. So it's really several things that add up to what you see that give that an unusual look for the fourth quarter.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: That was 70 million was it?  

MARC OKEN: Yes, 70 million. The leasing gain.  

KEN LEWIS: Any further questions? Yeah?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Marc, could you again go over your net interest margin presumption relative to the forward yield curve? Now, you are -- I'll let you talk. I mean I'm a little confused.  

MARC OKEN: Well, the numbers that Ken gave you, the outlook for next year, is 4 percent net interest income growth over 2004 on a pro forma basis. And he told you what the level of net interest income was on a pro forma basis. So 4 percent above that and it comprises both trading-related net income, and the spread from our businesses. Now, as we've been talking about in past meetings, that forecast is based on our balance sheet planning, our interest rate risk planning, off the forward yield curve. Which we do think reflects a likely scenario for 2005.  

KEN LEWIS: You know, other way of saying it is, the tightening we expect to occur is reflected by the forward yield curve and the various maturities.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Okay.  

MARC OKEN: Now, as I said, if the curve is steeper, Bank of America will benefit on the long end.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: What does the forward yield curve assume about steepening at this point? It doesn't assume any steepening --.  

MARC OKEN: There's significant compression out over the year.  

KEN LEWIS: 3.5 percent Fed funds rate I think is the forward --  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: No movement in the long end, on the forward curve --  

MARC OKEN: There is the compression, and it just depends on what rate you're looking at. You're talking about 75 basis points.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And why does the steeper yield curve help you?  

KEN LEWIS: Again, with the same book of business, assuming nothing else changed, we'll get better spreads because we'll get a better return on our customer assets, our trading assets, our discretionary portfolio.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thanks.  

KEN LEWIS: I think the point is, and fourth quarter is a good example. You know, I was standing here at the end of September, the yield curve has tightened or flattened more than we thought it would. And the Company had a good quarter with NII. Flat net interest yield. Net interest income up. We think we can do that again in 2005. It's not going to be exactly the way that the forward yield curve shows it. Another question? Yes?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I wonder on your online banking business, has the low-hanging fruit been picked or are you planning to grow this online sector more aggressively and is there something to be done with the Fleet customer base that might be lagging your base?  

KEN LEWIS: Yeah, in almost every metric, the Fleet customer base was lagging ours. Particularly in fact in -- and as it related to online banking and so there is -- they should be a surge there, or a continued growth that'd be pretty impressive. But, you know, once you get -- we've got half -- 50 percent penetration. We do think over time, that growth rate will decline at some point, but next year should be a pretty good year because of the inherent growth we're going to get with the Fleet franchise.  

MARC OKEN: I've got a couple of things on that. On just about every rating of online banking that you read, we finished first or near first. Second is one of the things I know that Pat and Liam plan to do next year and the next year is sell more products through online banking. So that's another upside for Bank of America.  

KEN LEWIS: And from what we understand, from even our competitors, nobody sells credit cards in their banks like we do. That wasn't your question, I know. But -- [ Laughter ] Okay. Thank you very much.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050201e11i0005l
  


 HD
 Q3  2004  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,244 words
   PD
14 October 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt, Investor Relations Executive of Bank of America. Before Marc Oken, our Chief Financial Officer, begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial condition, results, and expectations; and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.  

These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures in the industry, legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses as well. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. With that let me turn the meeting over to Marc Oken.  

   TD
MARC OKEN, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Kevin. Thanks for being here this morning. We know this is a busy morning for most of you, but I will get started right into my presentations. It was a good quarter, just overall. The high spots were the consumer business, which I will comment on, ex-mortgage. Also credit quality was good, and also the progress on the Fleet transition is very good. So more on those 3 points and the rest of the story beginning now.  

Earnings this quarter will be the second-quarter in a row that we have had Fleet integrated into the results. We consummated that merger on April 1. But as a consequence of that and because of the accounting, most of the comparisons I will talk about will be on a linked-quarter basis, since results prior to April 1 have not been restated in accordance with accounting rules.  

However, to give you additional information we did file this morning an 8-K that shows the pro forma impact of the purchase accounting adjustments on our income statement for the 3 month, 9-month periods ending September 30, 2003, and for the 9-month period ended September 3, 2004. We hope that will be useful information.  

From time to time during my comments in the next 20 minutes I will make some year-to-year comparisons on an apples-to-apples basis that will refer to the 8-K. Also one final thing; remember that we split our stock on August 27, on a 2 for 1 basis. So every number that I talk about today, importantly per share numbers, reflect this split. As well as share repurchase numbers that I give you, they also reflect the split.  

Now reported net income for the quarter for Bank of America was $3.6 billion or 91 cents per diluted share; and this is reported or GAAP net income, and it includes the merger and restructuring charge in the third quarter of $221 million before tax, which translates to 4 cents per share.  

The 91 cents per diluted share this quarter compares to 93 cents per diluted share in the second quarter, and that second quarter included a merger and restructuring charge of 2 cents per share. If you include the merger and restructuring charges on a pro forma basis the results in the second and third quarter were even at 95 cents per diluted share.  

We think that the Bank of America business model once again demonstrated the diversity of our earnings and allow us to leverage sustained growth in certain businesses while we offset volatility in others.  

Consumer banking, as I said, was the major driver of earnings this quarter, with ongoing growth in customer counts and deposits across the franchise, including New England. Average balances of consumer deposits increased 3.4 percent from average levels in the second quarter of this year.  

But mortgage banking was impacted by lower origination volumes and write-downs in the value of the Company's mortgage servicing rights. While there was a negative impact on mortgage servicing rights in the third quarter, we were able to take advantage of movement in rates at the end of the quarter; and we repositioned our debt securities portfolio.  

Our commercial bank showed a continuation of loan growth activity in certain businesses, coupled with good fee generation, we think. After a record second quarter, however, revenue in the global, corporate, and investment bank reflected the overall market slowdown in both investment banking and in trading. Commercial credit quality continued to improve from what was already pretty good performance.  

The Fleet integration effort as I said continues to proceed full speed ahead. We have had successful customer day one activities in all markets that have been rebranded thus far, which translates to 1/3 of their approximately 1,500 stores. Based on the positive feedback we have received, many of you must have noticed our efforts in New York in September when we rebranded Manhattan.  

All in all we are seeing increased traction with our customers and we feel confident about capitalizing on whatever opportunities the economy offers us over the next several quarters.  

Turning now to component, net interest income on an FTE basis for the entire Company increased 1.1 percent from second-quarter results to $7.84 billion. As we told you during the last earnings call, we became less asset-sensitive in the second quarter by reinvesting in May and in June. We did this because we thought it was unlikely that the forward rates at that time would be exceeded. Net interest income benefited from a higher level of investments, along with consumer loan growth more than offset by the negative impact of lower trading-related net interest income.  

Since the second quarter the yield curve has flattened, with the decline in longer-term interest rates and a rise in shorter-term rates. So during the third quarter we repositioned our mortgage-backed securities portfolio to reduce mortgage prepayment risk; and that resulted in gains in the third quarter of $732 million.  

Included in those gains was $117 million related to securities that economically hedged the decline in value of our MSRs. At the end of September we remain well positioned for future rising rates and curve flattening to the extent implied by the forward market curve.  

At this point let me now turn to highlights in our core businesses. Consumer and small business banking earnings decreased to $1.7 billion due mainly to lower mortgage banking results and a higher provision in the credit card business. This higher provision was associated mainly with card growth and the return of securitizations to the balance sheet.  

Highlights during the quarter are the same as we have been experiencing over the past several quarters in this business -- excellent account and deposit growth; strong fee generation driven by card income and service charges; robust loan growth in home equity and card; and continuing stability in our credit quality.  

In the third quarter net new consumer checking accounts increased 537,000, and that brings the year-to-date total for net new consumer checking accounts to 1.5 million. Our goal for the year is to exceed 2 million net new accounts. In the former Fleet franchise alone, net new checking accounts were 87,000 this quarter -- more than double the 42,000 in the second quarter for a total gain since the April 1 merger with Fleet of 129,000 net new consumer checking accounts. No lost ground there.  

Net new savings accounts opened in the quarter were 624,000 franchise-wide; and that brings the year-to-date total to 1.87 million net new accounts. Our goal for net new savings accounts is 2 million also this year. Net new savings accounts in the former Fleet franchise were 81,000, more than double the 37,000 in the second quarter, for a total of 118,000 net new savings accounts in Fleet. No ground lost there.  

Active online banking customers increased 5 percent to 11.8 million from second-quarter levels, while online bill pay increased 8 percent to 4.8 million. These increases in new accounts also reflect ongoing improvement and customer satisfaction, as 65 percent of banking customers now rate us as a 9 or a 10 in their customer delight scoring.  

Another important measure of growth we are tracking closely is sales productivity in our banking centers. Product sales in the banking centers climbed 4 percent from the second quarter, driven by a 26 percent increase in the former Fleet franchise. This includes many important products such as checking, savings, and investments, credit and debit cards, as well as home equity and other loans.  

Card income increased 9 percent from the second quarter. Consumer credit card purchase volumes were up 4 percent from second-quarter activity, while debit card purchase volumes rose 2 percent. Total managed card revenue including net interest income rose 4 percent from the second quarter. Average card receivables on a managed basis grew 3 percent from the second quarter, and we had excellent risk-adjusted margins of approximately 9.7 percent.  

Period-end credit card receivables on the balance sheet grew by about 7 percent due to about $1 billion in organic growth, along with $2 billion in securitizations returning to the balance sheet which I referred to earlier.  

Service charges rose 5 percent from the second quarter and benefited from higher levels of the deposit fees from new account growth. Mortgage banking didn't have the success this quarter that the rest of retail experienced. Mortgage banking income, the line item, was a -$250 million. And this included production income of $70 million and negative servicing income of about $320 million.  

Production income was down almost $200 million due to reduced originations and margins. Originations during the quarter were 17 billion; they were down about 40 percent from the second-quarter activity, as a part of overall industry contraction for this product. The negative servicing income reflected prepayment adjustments and model assumptions totaling about $190 million.  

Although we have seen refinance levels moderate during 2004, we do expect higher loan sizes, lower transaction costs, product innovation, and changes in customer behavior that will combine to cause prepayment speed in the industry to exceed historical trends. If you exclude the $190 million adjustment, risk management activities -- including the sale of AFS securities -- this resulted in net losses from the MSR risk management of about $24 million.  

We do use a combination of derivatives and held for sale securities in risk management of our MSR assets. The gains on the derivatives are included in mortgage banking income, while the gains on the sale of the securities and the related net interest income are reported outside of mortgage banking, so you have somewhat of a geographic distortion.  

At the end of September our servicing rights as a percent of our total servicing portfolio for others was 1.2 percent versus 1.5 percent at the end of the second quarter. But at the end of the second quarter, declining rates provided an 8 percent increase in pipeline activity over second-quarter levels; and we think this should provide opportunity for a lift in fourth-quarter production.  

On the other hand, helping to offset the mortgage impact was what we think was a robust market for home equity lending. Outstandings of home equity lines increased almost 10 percent to about $47 billion from second-quarter levels. Revenue growth in consumer and small business banking was in excess of 6 percent from the second quarter excluding the impact of mortgage banking.  

Overall, consumer credit quality remained stable and reflected seasonal improvement in the percentage of managed credit card losses. Managed credit card net losses as a percent of the portfolio decreased 40 basis points to 5.48 percent on an annualized basis from the second quarter, and they're 15 basis points above the levels a year ago before the inclusion of Fleet. The decrease from second quarter was mainly the result of continued growth in the portfolio and a lower level of bankruptcy losses.  

Net losses on a managed basis in dollar terms were down $23 million from the second quarter. 30 and 90 day delinquencies increased 26 basis points and 12 basis points, respectively, versus the second quarter. Going forward, credit card losses and reserve levels should move directionally with growth in the portfolio, which means they will rise.  

Excluding credit card, remaining consumer net chargeoffs increased slightly, $6 million, from second-quarter levels.  

Now let's turn to commercial banking. Its net income increased to $824 million due to higher revenue, lower provision, and lower expenses. Just to remind you, our commercial banking business segment now includes middle market, commercial real estate, dealer financial services, leasing, and asset-based lending.  

For the quarter, average outstanding loans in commercial banking increased almost $1 billion or approximately 1 percent from the second quarter; so 1 percent on a quarterly basis increase in middle market loans. Loan growth was driven by commercial real estate, dealer financial services, and leasing with geographic dispersion across most of our markets. The credit quality here remained relatively stable with chargeoffs at 10 basis points of loans.  

Commercial banking nonperforming assets dropped 11 percent from second quarter and criticized levels also continue to drop. From a business flow standpoint we have been well-positioned competitively for over a year now to take advantage of a slowly improving market. Average deposits in commercial banking dropped about 3 percent from second quarter.  

Switching now to global corporate investment banking, earnings in the third quarter increased to about $475 million. These results reflected the slowdown and lower volatility experienced by the overall market in the quarter, more than offset by lower litigation expense, which we had in the second quarter, and provision. Credit quality continued to improve. Large corporate net chargeoffs were minimal at $1 million versus $69 million in the second quarter. So you can see the source of some of that swing, plus the litigation expense in the second quarter.  

Large corporate nonperforming assets dropped another 22 percent. A 22 percent drop in NPAs in corporate from the end of the second quarter driven mainly by paydowns, exits, and sales. Inflows of new loans into nonaccrual status continued to be low compared to prior quarters. While we're pleased with the overall credit quality here, we continue to believe it won't get much better. Losses ahead should start to slowly trend up in the future.  

Investment banking income was down 21 percent, but we had record results in the second quarter. In M&A and equity there was a lack of favorable market dynamics and weaker valuations that drove market volumes down from the second quarter. Versus the second quarter, underwriting of securities dropped 21 percent to $218 million as increases in revenue from high-grade were offset by decreases in high yield and equities. Syndications revenue was down 26 percent to $129 million from second quarter as market volume fell 30 percent.  

Pipeline levels at the end of this quarter, the second quarter, are steady with June levels; and we expect a slight pickup in fees in the fourth quarter subject to market conditions continuing to improve.  

Similar to investment banking, the trading environment in the quarter was impacted by tightening credit spreads, a flattening yield curve, and range-bound markets. Total trading-related revenue for the third quarter was $585 million, a decrease of 41 percent from the second quarter.  

Fixed income was down 34 percent. Foreign exchange decreased slightly to $164 million. Revenue from interest rate contracts was down 59 percent due to a flattening yield curve and lower volatility; it was $118 million. Equities dropped by a half to $40 million.  

Tightening credit spreads also resulted in markdowns on our credit default swap positions that are used to hedge our loan portfolio; and $54 million of this decrease is recognized through the trading line. Corporate loans and leases in GCIB continued to decline and were down about $900 million from the end of the second quarter to a level of about $34 billion.  

Our fourth core business is wealth and investment management. Earnings in the quarter increased here to $469 million. Activity in the quarter was muted by decreases in most market indices; but lower brokerage volume and the absence of tax preparation fees also impacted third-quarter results.  

However, total revenues still increased due to growth in loans and deposits from the private bank and Premier Banking and the absence of a conforming accounting adjustment that was made in the second quarter that had a negative impact on that quarter. The tax preparation fees dropped about $20 million, and that is a seasonality factor, while brokerage fees were down $25 million versus the second quarter.  

Assets under management in wealth and investment management ended the quarter at about $430 billion, a slight decline, 2 percent, from combined levels in the second quarter. The reduction was due to outflows in the cash and money market products and a drop in both equity and debt markets during the third quarter. Equities, though, still represent 43 percent of assets under management.  

In the private bank, our focus on positioning Bank of America as a full-service provider in addition to a financial adviser continues to attract new deposits. Combined with our focus on Premier, wealth and investment management is successfully offsetting market volatility in the brokerage and asset management space, with both loan and deposit generation.  

Although not a business segment any longer, let me comment for a second on a rebound in equity investment gains. They totaled $220 million in the third quarter for the entire Corporation. As you know, results from equity investments have been slowly getting better this year after 2 1/2 years in the red. This quarter's activity reflected numerous significant gains across all market sectors as well as continued improvement in the level of impairments.  

Expenses. Non-interest expense across the Company decreased to $7 billion in the third quarter from $7.2 billion in the second quarter. Included in expense this quarter was $221 million pretax for merger and restructuring, versus $125 million in the second quarter. Of the $221 million, $156 million was associated with the Fleet integration, while the remaining $65 million pertained to the infrastructure initiative that we announced a week ago.  

That initiative, to refresh your memory, involves a reduction of approximately 4,500 positions throughout Bank of America and is not related to the Fleet integration goals.  

Estimated cost saves in the third quarter from the Fleet acquisition were $309 million pretax, a $103 million increase in the second quarter; and those saves are spread across all expense categories. So far, total cost saves for the year related to Fleet are $515 million on a pretax basis.  

Total corporate headcount during the quarter decreased by about 2,500 from levels at the end of June; and that decrease involved both attrition and planned reduction, including actions taken in mortgage origination capacity. Within this net decrease is the addition of more than 1,500 positions primarily related to growth in credit card, Premier Banking, and in customer service centers intended to improve service quality. At this point we're looking for total cost saves for the year related to Fleet to be approximately $875 million on a pretax basis.  

Our common equity increased to $98 billion at the end of September. The Tier One was about 8.08 percent. During the quarter we repurchased 40 million shares on a net basis; 14 million net of options exercised and conversions of stock. We have repurchased over the last 4 quarters net of options exercised and conversions of preferred stock about 117 million shares.  

A few comments on the Fleet transition and then I will close. It continues to achieve or exceed every one of our major objectives. As I mentioned, net new checking accounts and savings accounts have doubled from increases in the second quarter.  

Premier Banking continues an aggressive rollout across the franchise. For this business we have added 399 client managers over the past 2 quarters. We have put in a new call center to support the Premier client base, and more than 40,000 consumer banking clients have already accepted our invitation to become Premier Banking customers in the third quarter, meaning a personal banker delivers a higher level of service for what we think will be a more committed relationship to Bank of America.  

The loan solutions mortgage platform will be largely rolled out through the entire franchise by the end of the year. That is the first mortgage origination process. 42 percent of outstanding credit cards have already been reissued in the Fleet franchise, and the majority will be completed by February.  

Signage changes have taken place in upstate New York, in western New York, in Manhattan and Metro New York and Long Island; and last Monday, and in central and Metro New Jersey. So we have rebranded 39 percent of the Fleet stores, which total about 1,500 stores. The remaining locations should be substantially completed by the end of the year.  

The general ledger. The account payable and fixed-asset systems were successfully converted to Bank of America target platforms in the third quarter.  

As you know, we have always touted how overwhelmingly convenient the Bank of America franchise is for its customers. To that point, in the last week of September alone, customers made more than 25,000 cross-footprint transactions, of which 60 percent were Bank of America customers conducting business in the old Fleet banking centers. Given that achievement so far we remain confident that we can meet our targets we have discussed dealing with the Fleet integration.  

Before taking questions let me summarize the trends that I have discussed with you this morning. Retail banking had another impressive quarter and is meeting the aggressive goals that were set for it for 2004. Mortgage banking, however, had a challenging quarter due to market conditions and MSR write-downs. The commercial middle market sector has been showing signs of a pickup, and we are poised to benefit from that improvement in the fourth quarter and in 2005.  

The global corporate investment bank is subject to market volatility, but we continue to maintain or grow market share. Wealth and investment management has the biggest integration task, joining 2 nearly equal business platforms; but it is improving the bottom line by tight cost controls and leveraging both the private bank and Premier Bank.  

Finally we have been extremely successful and remain highly focused on the Fleet integration, and we will continue to show benefits in both revenue and expenses through 2005 and on. With that, let me open it up for questions; and again I thank you for being here.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS)  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: On the performance, are there any other units or operations that you see that you might dispose of because of underperformance there? I guess that ties in with -- I am looking out what is going to happen to the expense ratio?  

MARC OKEN: Those are good questions to start with. On closure of branches in the Fleet franchise with Bank of America, there are really -- I am just thinking on a store basis, top of my head -- the only overlap I can think of is in Florida, where they had 3 or 4 stores. And we're not closing them. So the short answer is we're closing no stores in the Fleet franchise.  

On closures of businesses, we have 4 principal businesses. I recounted the results. We think that that is a good, balanced portfolio that gives us consistent earnings growth. And no, we're not contemplating any closures of significance at this point in time.  

The last question was -- you gave me 3 -- oh, expense ratios, thank you. Okay. We turned our expense ratio, efficiency ratio for the third quarter was about 53 percent, below 53 percent. Now, before the merger with Fleet we have been driving down below 50 percent; and our intent is to drive down, to continue that as our target. That has not changed. We will drive the combined efficiency ratio of the Companies down below 50 percent.  

We will comment on that when we give guidance for next year. But you shouldn't expect that to change. That is our goal. We think that is the right ratio for our business mix. When you consider that we will have $875 million in cost savings this year, next year 1.8 billion, that will certainly help get down below 50 percent. Another question?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Have you provided any general thoughts of where you might receive revenue synergies related to the Fleet deal, and any quantification of that at all?  

MARC OKEN: I can answer the first question. We don't specifically -- on the second question, we don't measure Fleet as a separate unit because as you know the way we look at our Company is on a business segment basis. So the geographic differentiation is not something we really think about. We think about our customers and our businesses, our products, our channels.  

We are seeing tremendous synergies already, principally in the consumer arena. Let me talk about consumer, wealth and investment management, and also asset-based lending. In consumer, I think are reflected in the statistics I mentioned earlier. That is, we have added net new checking accounts for 2 quarters of 129,000. Net new savings accounts of 118,000. So those would be 2 good proxies for growth opportunity in the consumer arena.  

Additionally sales of products have increased 29 percent in the Fleet franchise. We had been giving that information on a sales per FTE, but we are repositioning the salesforce in the Fleet franchise so it is kind of an apples and apples, and it would be misleading.  

But let me just say, without giving you any exact numbers, the sales per FTE in Fleet have roughly doubled from what they were in the old Fleet franchise. That gets into training of the salesforce, give them coaching, managing, sales playbooks, the greeters that greet you when you come into the branch.  

Wealth and investment management, we are introducing Premier as I said into the Fleet franchise. We think when you give those upscale customers different attention it results in a greater share of their wallet.  

Asset-based lending, we are expanding the Bank of America asset-based lending into the Fleet franchise, and that has already shown good growth.  

So bottom line is when we announced the merger with Fleet last fall there were some skeptics as to whether there were value there. We think the results so far and the cost savings demonstrate there definitely is value there. I think you'll see continued improvements in those metrics and in other metrics.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: But when you announced the deal did you factor in some revenue in improvement across the key business sectors? Or what does that (inaudible)?  

MARC OKEN: The numbers that we would have shown when we announced the deal would have essentially shown revenue as flat for '04 and for '05 improvement. The flat for '04 would have been a conservative approach, but also a realistic approach given the huge level of activity that it would take, the distractions, the time to integrate the businesses. So I think it was probably realistic to do that.  

Having said all of that, I think what we are seeing so far has exceeded our expectations.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have got 2 questions on investment banking. In terms of the fixed-income (inaudible) growth, and as those were down about 34 percent --  

MARC OKEN: Which revenues?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Fixed-income were down about 34 percent quarter over quarter; and that is a steeper decline I think than we have seen with most firms. Could you just elaborate a little bit? Was that because of losses on (technical difficulty) or is this lower volume? And I've got one other one for you.  

MARC OKEN: I don't know; I won't comment on the Morgan Stanley style part. I don't have a view on that. Kevin, are the spread-to-the-hold (ph) swaps in that line item? I am not sure what line he is looking at. Okay.  

I think that part of the trading business did a little worse by comparison with peers. We did have a fixed-income position that anticipated rising rates that didn't come until the end of the quarter, in fact the last week in the quarter. And that would have been a driver in those lower than peer results.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Okay, thanks. Just as we talked about last quarter could you, and maybe on a follow-up basis, just give us a bit of a breakdown on your securities underwriting revenues? Equity high grade, high yield, on a follow-up basis? That would be fine.  

MARC OKEN: You want to do that off-line? Yes. We are going to give you the detail I think you are asking for. Is it not in the handout? We will give you more detail on that off-line if you would like. But we have that as an (multiple speakers) to the supplement this quarter.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, I saw that. Great. This is just specifically on securities underwriting revenues.  

MARC OKEN: Other questions? Got one on the line?  

OPERATOR: Andy Collins, Piper Jaffray.  

ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Just wondering what desecuritization growth might be going forward in terms of loans? Because we have seen a lot of that so far this quarter. Also the mortgage loan growth, I was wondering where that came from?  

MARC OKEN: If I understood the question, I mentioned during my comments that credit card receivables on the balance sheet grew 3 billion; 1 billion was organic growth and 2 billion were securitizations from Fleet that are coming on the balance sheet.  

There are additional securitizations coming on in the fourth quarter from Fleet and I can not remember the amount. Kevin, do you recall? Yes, if you look at the difference between managed and balance sheet, I think much of that difference comes on in the fourth quarter.  

ANDY COLLINS: What about the mortgage loan growth? We saw a fair amount there also quarter to quarter.  

MARC OKEN: Mortgage loan growth would be driven -- I mean fluctuations in mortgage loan growth would be driven by decisions made in our asset liability committee. I can't see the exact movements you're talking about, but we would have repositioned this year from treasuries in our discretionary into mortgage loans. I think that would account for that.  

The averages are really not that different, and the end of period are not that different. Another factor that would drive that would be repositioning of the balance sheet in the third quarter, that resulting in securities gains. Much of that would have been for mortgage loans.  

ANDY COLLINS: Finally, the reserve to total loans ratio; I am wondering if you have a target on that?  

MARC OKEN: No, it is pretty good though. It is 170, up from I think 156 in the third quarter. The said today and I said the last quarter -- probably can't get away with saying it too many more times -- credit quality is as good as it gets. We like the 170, we like the chargeoff ratio, we like the provision.  

ANDY COLLINS: So going forward we would see provisions matching net chargeoffs?  

MARC OKEN: That is about what we have done the last couple of quarters. Provision has been slightly lower. The way I think about it is we essentially have a model that drives our provision, that takes into account an incredible number of factors. But essentially for the last few quarters charge offs and provisions have been equal.  

ANDY COLLINS: Great, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Ruchi Madan, Citigroup.  

RUCHI MADAN, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: First, can you just update us on your off-balance sheet ALCO positioning and just your rate sensitivity?  

MARC OKEN: Balance sheet -- oh, swap position. On interest rate sensitivity we are about where we were in the second quarter. The measure that is often asked about, I was asked about this morning on CNBC I think, was what would happen if you had a 100 basis point parallel shift?  

When asked that question in the second quarter the answer was positive about 1 percentage point plus. The answer this quarter is negative about 1 percentage point. But it is essentially equivalent.  

We don't expect obviously a 100 basis point parallel shift beyond what the forward curve shows. In fact we think the forward curve will be realized and we are positioned to benefit from that.  

RUCHI MADAN: So that negative 1 percent is against the forward curve?  

MARC OKEN: Yes.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. And then the swaps and (multiple speakers)?  

MARC OKEN: The swap position? In the second quarter we went from a modest pay-fixed position; this quarter we went to -- that position decreased (inaudible) a modest receive-fixed. Essentially the same.  

We took off some of the pay-fixed. We had it on to protect against curve flattening. We had some curve flattening. We don't think -- our risk tolerance is such that we don't think that is an issue, so we took some of those positions off.  

RUCHI MADAN: Was that towards the end of the quarter?  

MARC OKEN: I don't remember. Let me think here. Intuitively you would think it would be, but I would have to check on that.  

RUCHI MADAN: So you are in a modest net receive-fixed position at the end of the quarter.  

MARC OKEN: Yes.  

RUCHI MADAN: Does that include the forward starting?  

MARC OKEN: Yes.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. A similar or related question, just looking at your loan yields, the domestics C&I portfolio for instance, the yield only moved up 6 basis point. So should we be looking for a much larger benefit next quarter as these loans reprice?  

MARC OKEN: I don't know.  

RUCHI MADAN: Is there any reason we wouldn't?  

MARC OKEN: You should see some. But if you are looking at super-table; there's a lot of components that go into that, including the impact of derivatives. I don't know that we have -- well, we must have separately forecast that. But I can't give you the answer to that.  

RUCHI MADAN: Do you have a general feel for to what extent the rate increases were reflected in loan repricing?  

MARC OKEN: Not right now. We can probably talk to you off-line. I don't have that info.  

RUCHI MADAN: One last question. The cost savings target that you mentioned for the year of 875; that implies only 50 more in the fourth quarter, right? Just want to confirm that.  

MARC OKEN: That is correct. Other questions? Got one on the line.  

OPERATOR: Tom McCandless, Deutsche Bank.  

TOM MCCANDLESS, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Couple of questions. First, relates to credit. In the commercial lines of business and the GCIB lines of businesses, the provisions have been negative for a while, particularly in GCIB. Wondering when you think that is going to turn to zero and then to increase?  

MARC OKEN: I wish it would, because then we would have the related loan growth. What is going on there is that loans are paying down, running off. The loan quality is good. There's no significant additions of criticized or classified assets. There's no huge chargeoffs, and that is what is driving that.  

I would say that our expectations are that could continue for a bit. The only industry issue you've got out there is the airline industry; and that could have some impact in the fourth quarter or first quarter. That is the only negative I can think of.  

So we see that trend continuing for the probably short to medium-term, unfortunately.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: Okay. Another commercial banking question. You noted, the press release also notes, the average deposits declined a little bit in the quarter. Is there anything more that you can say about the modest 3 percent or so decline in average deposits in the commercial line of business?  

MARC OKEN: Hang on one second. I am seeing if Kevin has got it. (inaudible) Don't have the exact answer to that. It is not something that we focused on. It could be. We can come back to you after the meeting on that. But my guess is that some of that is GTS; but in general it would be businesses more efficient utilization of our cash given that rate environment.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: Okay. If you have any additional you could give on that, that would be helpful from the standpoint of a macro sense of whether or not it is telltale (ph) sign that credit demand is picking up or slowing or what.  

MARC OKEN: I see where you are going. That would be good. We hope it is a positive.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: We all do.  

MARC OKEN: But in the large corporate we are not seeing any growth. In the middle market we are seeing growth, as I said; 1 percent on the quarter, 4 percent annualized. I also said that was centered so far mainly in commercial real estate lending, asset-based lending, and leasing.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: Right. A couple other quick follow-ups if I may. The venture capital results were fantastic. I am just wondering were there particularly large transactions that helped boost the number this quarter? What should investors think on a go-forward basis as we are trying to approach the modeling?  

MARC OKEN: Okay, principal investments? I am having trouble picking you up. I don't think you should -- I think they should continue to be positive in comparison to the dismal results of the past 2 or 3 years. But I think third-quarter was probably -- that shouldn't be a proxy necessarily for successive quarters. But it should be a much more positive story than it has been in the past 3 years.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: Were there any large transactions that flow through this quarter?  

MARC OKEN: No, I asked that. It is kind of spread across all sectors. Just good cash flows and lower impairments than we have seen.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: If I could ask 2 general questions. You made some comments about prepayment speeds perhaps staying above average for a while. Can you discuss that? Which type of prepay speeds, which products are you thinking about? Why do you say that? Is that just a macro call on rates?  

MARC OKEN: What was the last thing you said?  

TOM MCCANDLESS: Is this a macro call on interest rates? Are rates going to stay down a while?  

MARC OKEN: No, my comments probably looked ahead just for a quarter or so. The prepayment speeds obviously have a negative impact on all -- the low rates have a negative impact on all aspects of the mortgage business. Originations declined; the value of our MSR declines; we have to amortize this faster.  

You have to adjust your model from time to time. You see a shift. We have seen some shift, though, from refinancing into purchased money mortgages. We are stronger on refinancing than purchased money. Purchased money is an opportunity for us, a sales opportunity for us that we are focused on that we won't get a huge immediate benefit from.  

The real immediate benefit for us, though, if rates gradually rise is in home equities where we saw a 10 percent increase in balances in the third quarter. So that is the opportunity for Bank of America. Return to more normal earning levels in first mortgage and continue to capture larger shares in our footprint at home equity.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: One final question. Since you have a very large captive audience, could you take this opportunity to expand on what was in the financial press during the past couple of weeks with respect to Bank of America's intentions to expand its investment banking activity, pumping -- what? -- $600 million into it?  

MARC OKEN: Yes, I couldn't expand more than I think was in the press release. But just to reiterate, it is a key business for us. It is a substantial part of our revenues and our earnings, important customers. And we are going to use that money to further upgrade platforms, people, incentives for the people that we have, and to capture larger market share.  

It is a business we have been very satisfied with, and we think there is room for even further improvement. And we are quite excited about it.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: Is that number started just for '05?  

MARC OKEN: When will it start? Yes, I think Al De Molina, as President of Global Corporate and Investment Banking, is laying out a strategy and his plan as we speak. Has been for some time. And the growth should start early in '05.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: Can you discuss on what areas of growth you are anticipating to try to build out further in that platform?  

MARC OKEN: We haven't disclosed that yet.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: Terrific, Mark. Thanks so much for all your help.  

MARC OKEN: Ron?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: When you were talking about the mortgage banking line item, the -250 million, I think implied in there was -- if I understood it correctly -- was a loss on sale of loans in the pipeline. Is that correct and could you elaborate on that?  

MARC OKEN: Yes, I can not quantify it, but the answer is yes. What is going on, Ron, is there is a scramble among large mortgage bank loan originators for a shrinking market. Banks are making loans at lower rates that when sold in the secondary market are creating losses. That is a fact.  

Now, some banks will keep those on their balance sheets as investments. But that has not been our strategy and our practice. We would have incurred some losses in the secondary market in the third quarter compared to fairly substantial gains during a declining rate environment in prior quarters. So that is a factor in the $250 million loss.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Is that environment persisting? So do you see losses continuing in the current quarter?  

MARC OKEN: No, we don't plan to have losses.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (multiple speakers) Is the environment similar, or has the environment changed?  

MARC OKEN: It is still quite competitive. What you have got to do is reduce your appetite for mortgage originations; raise your prices; adjust your prepayment speeds in your model. What I would say about fourth quarter is I don't have a number for you, but I think we have hit the bottom in the third quarter. It should only get better in the fourth quarter. Any other questions? Clarence?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Some large numbers have been circulated in terms of the hurricane losses. It has been reflected to a great extent with the property casualty companies. I was just wondering whether you might make a comment on that, to see what the problems are, if there were any problems concerning your bank? And if there are any opportunities as a result of what has been happening?  

MARC OKEN: Yes, we have had some discussions about that. I'm not aware of any credit issues we have with credit relationships with large property casualty insurers, one.  

Second, we talked about what impact that would have on our consumer portfolio. And given the size -- obviously the size of our portfolio, the size of our market -- it is not quantifiable if there is one; in fact we don't think that will be an issue for us.  

Finally, in a perverse way it should provide lending growth in the areas affected. Because companies, industries, consumers will be borrowing more money rather than less because of the hurricane damage. So, net-net, add it all up, not a big factor for us. But that is our thinking on it. Got a call on the phone?  

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB LLC: Couple of questions here. The mortgage originations, could you just clarify that? You said something about a pipeline going into the fourth quarter and the fourth-quarter originations actually being better?  

MARC OKEN: Yes, the pipeline picked up some in comparison with the third quarter. So if you take into account the comment I made to Ron about things we're doing to improve the profitability, plus a little bit healthier pipeline, all those factors should contribute to better performance in the mortgage line for Bank of America in the fourth quarter.  

NANCY BUSH: Secondly, the Parmalat saga is ongoing. Do you guys feel confident about your litigation reserves at this point. Do you foresee a need for anything other than just sort of the usual quarterly additions to that reserve?  

MARC OKEN: Nothing unusual there in the third quarter with respect to litigation reserves or I would have mentioned them to you. The answer is yes, we do feel confident with respect to our litigation reserves.  

As to Parmalat, our position is spelled out in the press release that we filed in an 8-K a couple weeks ago. We intend to vigorously contest the charges with Parmalat. I would add also that what is never mentioned is the fact that we too were a victim of the problems in Parmalat, incurring losses of several hundred million dollars.  

NANCY BUSH: Thanks very much.  

MARC OKEN: Another one on the line.  

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, Merrill Lynch.  

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Two quick questions. First, you mentioned that you think your balance sheet is better positioned for a flat yield curve. I think you mentioned that in your opening comments. Could you give us a few insights as to why you feel that way?  

Second of all, in terms of a specific question on back to mortgage, could you go over once again what specifically the MSR impairment charge was? And if there were any specific hedges that offset that, or hedge gains that offset that?  

MARC OKEN: The second one is real complicated; I'm going to try to keep it simple. We can talk to you more off-line about it.  

But on the curve flattening, what I said was we are positioned in the second quarter for curve flattening. One of the ways we positioned ourselves was to have a net pay-fixed position. There was -- we did incur (ph) flattening. We got to a risk point where we thought we were okay and we took off some of that pay-fixed position. So going into the third quarter we have a net receive-fixed position. So I was talking about the second quarter.  

On the mortgage, on the MSR, the size of that asset is about -- is it $2 billion? It is roughly $2 billion. I have mentioned in my comments that we had a model adjustment, so we changed assumptions mainly on prepayment speed related to the model that resulted in expense of $190 million. And that is that line item.  

Additionally there is about $300 million in expense related to impairment, and that can come several different ways. This is the thing that is really complicated. It can come throughout the quarter as you reconcile cash payments received on your mortgages versus what the model tells you. You make adjustments as you reconcile cash, that is one.  

The other part is the way we hedged the mortgage, the MSR. In the third quarter we hedged half of it with derivatives that were FAS-133 qualified derivatives. So any diminution in the value of the MSR went through mortgage banking income; and the offsetting derivative also went through mortgage bank. And that was a slight positive. They both go through the same line item. That was a slight positive.  

The other half of the MSR we hedged with AFS or held for sale securities. The geography there is what makes it confusing. The diminution in the MSR would go through mortgage banking income; but the economic value in the securities would be reflected in the balance sheet until they were sold. And then that gain would be reflected through securities gains. And in fact we had securities gains, I said in my comments, of $117 million related to that.  

So that is what I would tell you about it up here today. We can talk you through it more off-line. But it is a very complex subject, made so by the accounting rules that are required to be followed here.  

ED NAJARIAN: But just so I understand it, when we look at the -250 million revenue item on the mortgage banking line, there is approximately 490 million of that, which is your 190 plus your 300. that is either related to MSR impairment or changes in the parameters of the way you value the MSR?  

MARC OKEN: I'm not going to reconcile that account up here, because we would need another hour. But it is 390, and there's other things going through that line including production income. There was production income related to mortgage.  

It is going to be broken out in the Q which we will file in about 2 weeks. But we understand what you need to hear is mortgage banking was a problem for us in the third quarter; we think it will rebound in the fourth. We understand the issues, what is driving it. Explaining it is very complex. I apologize I can not do that in the short time we have.  

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks.  

MARC OKEN: Got a call on the line.  

OPERATOR: Carol Berger, (ph) Kreff (ph) Investments.  

CAROL BERGER, ANALYST, KREFF (PH) INVESTMENTS: On the securitizations coming back onto the balance sheet, was that late in the quarter? Is it going to impact the credit card line item and net interest income into the fourth quarter? Or was the impact largely already seen in the third quarter?  

MARC OKEN: I think what you asked me -- you asked me about the $2 billion in credit card coming --.  

CAROL BERGER: Yes, coming back (multiple speakers).  

MARC OKEN: When did it impact NII? Gosh, when did that come on, Kevin? It was in the quarter but -- (inaudible). Most of the off-balance sheet? Kevin is telling me that most of the securitizations came in in the third quarter so you will have -- there won't be any impact in the fourth quarter. (inaudible) I think she is trying to ask whether there was a --  

CAROL BERGER: Was it early or late?  

MARC OKEN: Whether there was a split between non-interest income and net interest income, depending on when you shift them in the quarter. So trying to assess how much it impacted net interest income growth in the third quarter. I'd don't know the answer to that, unless you do. (inaudible) Full third quarter. Kevin thinks most of it was full impact to NII in the third quarter, Carol.  

CAROL BERGER: Thank you.  

MARC OKEN: One more question.  

OPERATOR: Jonathan Finger, (ph) Finger investments.  

JONATHAN FINGER, ANALYST, FINGER (PH) INVESTMENTS: Two questions. 1, how much of your equity gains or venture capital gains were realized versus unrealized?  

Second question related to home equity loan growth; it was up 10 percent on a quarter to quarter basis. What level of growth are you all comfortable with on that line item?  

MARC OKEN: The answer to the first question is there was a small fair value write-down in principal investing. Oh, it was a mark-up? Okay. Got it backwards; $27 million positive in the equity investment line item. Okay?  

JONATHAN FINGER: Does that mean everything else was realized during the quarter?  

MARC OKEN: The components? Yes, the answer is yes. It would be cash plus mark-up minus impairments.  

JONATHAN FINGER: Okay.  

MARC OKEN: What we would be comfortable with?  

JONATHAN FINGER: Yes.  

MARC OKEN: We like 10 percent.  

JONATHAN FINGER: So you would like to see it grow 4 to 5 billion a quarter? You all are comfortable in that area?  

MARC OKEN: I can't predict that. (inaudible) Just tell you our strategy. As consumers thinks rates are going to rise, they are going to flip into the home equity product; and strategically we are poised to capture that business.  

JONATHAN FINGER: Okay. One last question on the ecommerce growth. It looks like your penetration is starting to peak out in the high 48% kind of range. Do you all expect that to continue to grow? Or do think it is just pausing here?  

MARC OKEN: We have had sharp increases growth that are very positive. I think we can not expect to repeat the historical growth forever. I want to remind you the benefit of the ecommerce, particularly online banking, is it improves the stickiness of the relationship with the customer. That is a key indicator for us and one that has been particularly positive for Bank of America.  

What was the question on -- what is happening is as consumers anticipate rates rising, an alternative to refinancing which gives them more flexibility and is attractive is a home equity loan or a home equity line.  

JONATHAN FINGER: Thank you.  

MARC OKEN: (inaudible) The rates?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (inaudible question - microphone inaccessible)  

MARC OKEN: Yes. Tax deductible, though. (inaudible) It could be fixed, it could be variable, yes; depending on what they like.  

Other questions? Any other questions in the room? Thank you for being with us and listening to our results for Bank of America today.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
nyc : New York City | usa : United States | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020041028e0ae000jj
  


 HD
 Q2  2004  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,543 words
   PD
14 July 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
KEVIN STITT, IR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt with Investor Relations at Bank of America. Before Marc Oken, our Chief Financial Officer, begins his comments, let me remind you, as I always do, that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial condition, results and expectations, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates and competitive pressure and other variables. And for additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. At this time, let me turn the meeting over to Marc Oken.  

   TD
MARC OKEN, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Okay. Thanks, Kevin. Good morning. Welcome to the quarterly earnings review for Bank of America. I come up to the podium today knowing that I've got big shoes to fill following Jim Hance, who knew the numbers better than anybody in our company; really has a great flair for doing these presentations. And Jim has been my boss and mentor for over 10 years. He hired me at Bank of America. I'm afraid my style won't be the same; nobody can match Jim.  

But having said that, I've got to tell you I can't think of a better time to start in this job, given the results you see before you for the second quarter and what is going on in the Bank of America organization. I think without exaggerating, some of the numbers this quarter don't need much explanation, given the evidence of momentum and growth in our various businesses. So let's take a look.  

As you know now, the results this quarter included the addition of Fleet following the close of our acquisition with them on April 1. You also know that in line with purchase accounting rules, prior periods are not restated for the acquisition of Fleet. All GAAP comparisons that you see in our press release and the supplemental package include Fleet in the second quarter, but only reflect legacy Bank of America results without Fleet in the earlier periods. So you have a little bit of an apples and oranges situation, but that is the way the numbers need to be presented.  

But having said that, in my comments today, I am going to try to use at various times comparisons that add Fleet's results to the prior periods or combine them, so as to better help you analyze the momentum and the trends from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter. These comparisons that I give you -- there will be just a few of them -- do factor in purchase accounting adjustments, performing accounting adjustments and the remapping of business results that I will mention in just a minute.  

On this subject, we did final and 8-K this morning, and that shows the pro forma impact of purchase accounting adjustments for the three-month's and six-month's periods ending June 30, 2003, and the six months ended June 30, 2004. So when you get into detailed analysis of our results for the quarter, you will want to have this 8-K in hand, because it does pro forma the Fleet acquisition back to prior periods.  

You might want to also spend some of your time reviewing the guidance from April and January to judge Bank of America's progress and concentrate on where you think performance will go from second quarter baseline results versus comparisons with a year ago, which frankly, we think compare very favorably.  

Additional changes for this quarter include a rearrangement of the way we present some of our businesses. We have separated Consumer and Commercial Bank into two distinct business segments. The absolute size of both the Consumer and Commercial businesses dictates such a split. Now our Premier business, which includes affluent retail customers, has been moved from the Consumer Bank to Wealth and Investment Management. This move reflects our effort to focus on specific customer needs, and we believe that Wealth and Investment Management has a product set more consistent with those customers' needs. Finally, Equity Investments is now included in the Corporate Other category. The bottom line is we now have a presentation that best reflects the way we look at our business, and that is from a customer perspective, a customer segment perspective.  

Reported net income for the second quarter increased to $3.8 billion, or $1.86 per diluted share. This is reported net income and includes the merger restructuring charge for the second quarter of $125 million before tax, which translates to 4 cents per share after-tax. The $1.86 per diluted share compares to $1.83 for legacy Bank of America in the first quarter of this year and $1.80 for legacy Bank of America in the second quarter a year ago.  

Because of purchase accounting and the additional capital issued for the Fleet transaction, return on equity for the second quarter was 17 percent -- and that excludes the merger and restructuring charge -- versus 22 percent for legacy Bank of America in the first quarter. Including Fleet in prior periods, we estimate total revenue, not counting security gains, rose 2.5 percent from the first quarter, adjusted for all the merger-driven accounting changes. So we think on a pro forma basis, quarter-over-quarter, our revenue growth was 2.5 percent. You should be able to compute this when you dig into the pro formas that we filed with the 8-K.  

Overall results mirrored the improvement in the economy, and most of our businesses benefited from the environment. Our retail businesses continued to dramatically grow net new accounts and deposit the costs across the franchise, including New England. Customer metrics demonstrate that our strategies over the past several quarters to improve customer satisfaction and grow the customer base are consistently meeting or exceeding the aggressive goals that we set for ourselves.  

Our Global Corporate Investment Bank had a record quarter in investment banking along with a good trading quarter. Our Commercial Bank showed a continuation of loan growth activity that we have seen 5 out of the past 6 quarters. On top of it all, the Fleet integration effort is where we expected it to be.  

Net interest income on an FTE basis for the entire Company increased 1.5 percent in the second quarter to $7.8 billion. That is from the combined first quarter results adjusted for merger-driven accounting changes; so on an apples-to-apples basis, net interest income, quarter-over-quarter, 1.5 percent quarterly increase. Driving the increase were higher levels of consumer loans, home equity, small business, credit card, commercial loans, deposits and trading (ph) relating assets, partially offset by lower levels of large corporate and foreign loans.  

Now, as discussed in April, we entered the quarter positioned for higher rates. We still feel the same way at the end of June and expect rates to continue to rise through 2005, with some possible curve flattening driven by the short end (ph). During the quarter we executed security sales that resulted in security gains of about $800 million. These securities have been sold forward in the fourth and first quarters in anticipation that rates would rise to levels then reflected in the forward curve. These sales enabled us to reposition from lower into higher coupon assets to manage our rate position.  

As a part of that strategy, we had to add (ph) investments to our asset liability management portfolio, mostly on a forward basis to lock in higher forward rates. Consequently, we are less asset sensitive than we were at the end of March. The increased level of investments is driven by two things, our view that rates are moving to what is implied by the forward curve, and the fact that we continue to experience very strong consumer and commercial deposit growth.  

Average core retail deposits across the bank on a combined basis were up 4 percent, or $14 billion, from combined levels in the first quarter of 2004. You may remember that 4 years ago, Bank of America made the decision to focus on deposit growth, and I would say that $14 billion of growth in one quarter represents real focus. Noninterest income in the second quarter increased 4 percent to $5.4 billion versus combined results in the first quarter.  

Over the next couple of minutes, let me comment on the various fee areas that we show on our income statement, along with additional highlights. Total service charges increased 1 percent to $1.8 billion, driven mainly by activity in consumer banking. Net new checking accounts across the franchise increased by approximately 575,000 in the second quarter, up 34 percent from first-quarter growth. About 43,000 of these accounts were opened in the former Fleet franchise, 4 times the level of new accounts that we opened in the first quarter of 2004. Net new savings accounts across the franchise increased by about 740,000 in the quarter, up 38 percent from first-quarter growth. About 63,000 of these new savings accounts were in the Fleet franchise, versus a negligible number in the first quarter of 2004.  

Mortgage banking income increased 39 percent to $299 million from combined results in the first quarter, driven by a pick-up in refi activity that took place at the end of the first quarter. Originations during the quarter were $28 billion, up from $24 billion in the first quarter. While the backlog is down from March levels, we are looking for continued activity in the housing market and in construction starts, given the current level of mortgage interest rates.  

Card services continued its impressive growth. Card income increased to $1.2 billion; it was up $61 million from combined results in the first quarter. Debit card purchase volumes remained strong, showing 9 percent growth from first-quarter combined numbers. Consumer credit card purchase volumes were up 11 percent from first-quarter combined numbers. Card receivables on average stayed relatively flat at $53 billion (ph) on a managed basis from combined results, with excellent risk-adjusted margins up -- of approximately 9 percent, up from 8.8 percent in the first quarter. Now, although average managed card receivables at legacy Bank of America rose 3 percent, average receivables in total remained flat due to expected runoff in the Fleet portfolio, along with some receivables being positioned for sale.  

Total investment in brokerage services were $972 million, down 6 percent from combined results in the first quarter. Asset management fees reflected an increase from tax preparation of about $25 million that was more than offset by the one-time impact of conforming accounting adjustments in the merger that will correct themselves going forward. Consumer brokerage fees were down a little, $11 million versus the first quarter.  

The mix of the -- excuse me -- assets under management within Wealth and Investment Management ended the quarter at about $440 billion. That is a drop of about 4 percent from the combined levels in the first quarter. And what we are seeing is that the 4 percent reduction was due to outflows in fixed income, cash and money market products, sales of some smaller non-strategic businesses and a drop in both the equity and debt markets from a valuation perspective during the quarter. The mix of that portfolio is now more heavily weighted toward equity, and it represents about 43 percent of assets under management.  

One of the few year-to-year comparisons I think should be highlighted, given events of the past year -- this is year-to-year -- I have been talking quarter-to-quarter mainly -- is that earnings in Wealth and Investment Management, including the Premier business, for the second quarter are up 12 percent to $392 million from second quarter a year ago, and the assets under management, once again on a year-to-year basis, are up 3 percent.  

Now let's continue down the income statement towards results involving our corporate clients. Investment banking income increased to $547 million, up 25 percent, approximately, from combined results in the first quarter -- and that is the record-breaking investment banking fees that we referred to earlier. Securities underwriting increased 20 percent to $255 million, driven by increases of 21 percent in equity underwriting and 37 percent in high yield. Syndications also had a record quarter and increased significantly to a revenue level of $182 million from first quarter. Advisory services were down slightly to $96 million.  

We think what was impressive about the quarter was the improvement in market share in high margin products, high yield underwriting, leveraged loan syndications and M&A, and an increase in our overall deal volume. So we feel pretty good about that area. We normally expect a (indiscernible) decrease in investment banking activity in the third quarter, but the view is that the pipeline continues to hold steady looking ahead for the next three months.  

Trading account profits increased to $413 million, and that is up from combined results from the first quarter, after adjusting for the negative impact of the mortgage servicing asset valuation, which shows up in that line, in the first quarter, and that was $275 million. Driving the improvement in trading were gains in equities after a small loss in the first quarter, as well as improved sales to commercial and institutional customers and derivative products.  

Equity investment gains were down $84 million from the combined $219 million in the first quarter. Principal investments showed an increase in cash gains net of impairments versus combined results in the first quarter, but the increase was more than offset because corporate activity in the first quarter didn't sustain itself on into the second quarter. Other income was down to $186 million from combined results in the first quarter due to one-time items at both companies in the first quarter.  

Now, expenses. Noninterest expense across the Company decreased to $7.2 billion in the second quarter from a combined level of $7.5 billion in the first quarter. And that $7.5 billion includes the $425 million for the mutual fund settlement. Included in expense this quarter was $125 million pretax for merger and restructuring, part of the Fleet transition, and also $300 million pretax for legal issues. These legal issues involved the Enron settlement, which we announced two weeks ago, and additional increases in the litigation reserve, primarily for previously identified litigation matters involving our Company. Excluding these items, noninterest expense for the quarter was about $6.8 billion, which compares favorably with the $6.9 billion that we targeted going forward in April, so we think we are on track. Now, estimated cost saves from the Fleet acquisition in the second quarter were $206 million, spread across all expense categories, including personnel.  

Headcount, from a companywide basis, during the quarter, from April 1, decreased approximately 3800 from combined levels at the end of March, driven by both attrition and planned reductions, and also actions taken in the mortgage banking business. As we have been saying consistently over the past few months, the bulk of the cost saves in 2004 will appear in the second half of the year. Total cost saves from the merger for 2004 are still expected to be as high as $750 million after-tax in 2004.  

The effective tax rate in the second quarter before the FTE adjustment was 33.9 percent, and was impacted by a year-to-date adjustment related to the merger. Going forward, we would expect the effective tax rate to move closer to about 33.4 percent. If you factor in the FTE adjustment for your financial models, I would (ph) add to that 200 basis points to the effective tax rate.  

Now before turning to credit quality, let me spend just a minute talking about the loan portfolio. On a combined basis, average loans declined 1 percent, or $6 billion, to $497 billion. Loan trends overall continued to remain positive in Credit Card, Small-business, Premier, Home Equity, and Commercial Banking, offset by reductions in paydowns in the large corporate book, along with lower levels of residential mortgages.  

Commercial lending reflected the same trends as the first quarter, with broad-based growth in the legacy Bank of America portfolio and some runoff on the Fleet side. We are seeing good commercial growth in the Southwest, the Southeast, and good pipeline growth in California. The commercial arena remains competitive, but we are doing well by leveraging our industry expertise and product breadth. In the Northeast, we're expanding the business by playing to our strengths in investment banking and public finance.  

Now for the rest of the year 2004 commercial lending, we are looking for 3 to 4 percent loan growth, period-to-period, across the franchise, including the Northeast. The Large Corporate book continued to trend down and decreased 5 percent in the quarter. The Consumer areas continue to look promising going forward, as does the Commercial Bank.  

During the second quarter, Consumer Credit quality remained stable and continued to perform well, while the Commercial and Large Corporate portfolios also improved. Versus the first quarter on a combined basis, the net charge-off ratio dropped 9 basis points to 67 basis points. Nonperforming assets fell 14 percent on a combined basis to $3.2 billion, or 0.64 percent of the loan, lease and foreclosed property portfolio. Criticized (ph) exposure dropped approximately 23 percent.  

The provision for credit losses during the quarter was $789 million, slightly less than the combined net charge-offs for Bank of America during the quarter of $829 million. This brings the allowance for loan and lease losses to $8.8 billion, which represents 1.76 percent of ending loans and leases. On a combined basis, we will continue to see our consumer allowance for loan and lease losses increase, while the commercial allowance has decreased. During the quarter, we charged off about $84 million in loan exposure for Parmalat, leaving about $34 million of credit risk that is carried in nonperforming exposure.  

Consumer net charge-offs of $693 million were flat with the combined results in the first quarter. Managed credit card net losses in the second quarter were $776 million, or 5.88 percent of the portfolio, versus $735 million, or 5.53 percent, on a combined basis in the first quarter, and that is in line with the seasonal tick-up from bankruptcies that we see every year during this quarter. On a combined basis, both the 30- and 90-day delinquency ratios within the managed credit card portfolio improved 13 basis points to 3.86 percent and 23 basis points to 1.76 percent respectively. The improvement in the Commercial portfolio we don't expect to continue at the current pace, while the growth in our Consumer businesses will result in a higher consumer allowance for loan and lease loss levels.  

Bank of America's common equity of $96 billion at the end of June represented 9.2 percent of our assets. The Tier 1 ratio, the tangible equity ratio and the leverage ratio all improved from legacy Bank of America levels at the end of March. The Tier 1 ratio increased to 8.2 percent at the end of June; the tangible equity ratio improved to 4.8 percent; and leverage ratio increased to 5.8 percent.  

During the quarter, we repurchased 24 million shares, which converts to 7 million net of options exercised. We have repurchased over the past three quarters, net of options exercised, about 50 million shares, and that puts us in good shape to at least reach our goal of 90 million shares by 2005 that we mentioned in connection with the Fleet acquisition.  

Now let me spend just a few minutes before closing talking about the Fleet integration, which I, incidentally, continue to be responsible for, in addition to my Chief Financial Officer duties. As you know, we began laying out our integration game plan immediately after our merger announcement in October. The Fleet transition efforts have achieved or exceeded every one of our major objectives. All the key consumer and commercial market executives for the Northeast are in plan and integrated. Branding and relationship management transfers have been completed for those businesses folded into GCIB, the Commercial Bank, and GTS, Global Treasury Services.  

Premier Bank is being deployed across the Fleet franchise. On that subject, 240 client managers have been added, with another 130 expected to be added by the end of the year. A new call center is in place to support Premier. Bank of America's spirit (ph) is being rolled in New England banking centers beginning in June. Sales metrics, which you have before you, within the Fleet franchise, have clearly improved, with sales growth of checking, savings, online banking, credit card and installment loans all improving from sales growth both in first quarter and from a year ago.  

Sales per FTE per day within the Fleet franchise has improved from 2 at the beginning of the year to 2.5 in June. Loan solutions mortgage platform has been implemented into the Connecticut stores. It will be largely rolled out throughout the franchise by the end of the year. Reissuance of credit cards, reissuance of debit cards with Bank of America brand will begin in late August and be substantially done by the end of the year and finalized in January. We're going to start changing signs this quarter, beginning in August, and expect to be complete or substantially complete in the Fleet franchise by the end of December.  

We are starting some major conversions in the back office. General Ledger, Accounts Payable and Fixed Asset System will be converted to Bank of America target platforms by the middle of the third quarter; those will be in August. As we have said, after an in-depth review, we're going to implement the model bank into the Fleet franchise, and that will be complete about the middle of 2005. Certain attributes as a part of the model bank will implemented into that platform that we think represent an improvement in the product.  

All the key credit quality information systems, which includes Consumer and Commercial, were successfully integrated in the second quarter of this year. The entire Fleet integration effort is performing on all fronts. We are meeting our deadlines on all major transition projects. Customer satisfaction scores in the Northeast are getting better. Product sales have materially picked up, and the customer base seems to be responding to both the brand and the ability of our franchise to deliver convenience and service.  

In summary, many of the targets we laid out for ourselves in the first half of this year have been reached, both from an earnings perspective and with the Fleet integration. The economy is performing the way we had hoped it would, and the momentum we've established over the past few years should continue to produce impressive results for our Company.  

Given these statements, you have probably come to the conclusion that our outlook for the second half of the year does not differ significantly from what we have been saying since January, and that, in fact, is true. Overall revenues should parlay with economic activity, particularly in the retail area. Expense levels should be impacted positively by ongoing productivity and projected expense saves, although offset somewhat by increased investment in our expanding businesses.  

Given the results so far this year and how well our businesses are performing, we obviously feel quite good about the remainder of 2004. So on that positive note, let me open it up for questions and thank you for being here, thank you for your attention.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Since this quarter beat expectations, why is your second half guidance (technical difficulty).  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS)  

MARC OKEN: Overall, Mike, the message is great business momentum. I think we expect to see -- clearly, we are track on Consumer; we ought to see similar results in the second half momentum-wise, results-wise. Commercial lending, I mean, I gave you a signal there that the growth -- there is a lot of curiosity nationwide about what -- and when I say commercial lending, it is roughly equivalent to questions other companies get about middle market lending, although we have some other businesses in there. We gave you a number of about 3.5 percent growth, I think, for the second six months, so that is a positive.  

GCIB, great investment banking results. Positive at the pipeline. I talked to Carter McClelland yesterday -- unusually positive for third quarter, although you never know what will happen. And the remaining business, Wealth and Investment Management is holding its own, although they had one of the most difficult conversions. So momentum, the message is positive.  

Clearly, in this quarter results was $795 million of securities gains offset somewhat by the legal expenses etc. I think when we translate all of that, we come in line roughly with what we've been telling you. This was a very high quarter because of securities gains by themselves, net of the legal expenses, but don't discount for a minute, I think, the positive momentum of the businesses.  

Now, the Tier 1 did tick up -- we're very pleased with that -- to 8.2. And we probably were might conservative in our perspective on where that would go. The Fleet assets have less risk weighting than the Bank of America assets was a principal driver there. But don't have any plans for use of excess capital. Our message to you is we're going to focus on organic growth. We have a great franchise. We are going to continue with the customer growth that we have and we're going to be totally focused on successful integration of Fleet.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: As a quick follow-up, your securities portfolio, it looks like you deleveraged a little bit after leveraging up big last quarter.  

MARC OKEN: We have -- we actually talk about this -- you have to sort it out in the 10-Qs that we file. But our strategy has been, if you go back to the fourth quarter when we became convinced -- and earlier -- of rising rates, we did some forward sales. So we had some big forward sales this quarter resulting in the gain. There's forward sales at a lower level coming in in the second half, but there is also forward purchase commitments that are weighted toward the end of the year. So that's not real specific, but directionally, that gives you our strategy. And also state (ph) that that's consistent with our consistent view of where rates were going and where we -- they think they are going to continue to go.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Could you give us some kind of a breakdown, an idea of just what's happening in terms of the expense saves with regards to the employment cutbacks? In addition to that, the expenses going forward for the next two quarters, how are we looking at things like litigation; how are we looking at the reorganization expenses? And did you have a fixed cost in terms of revamping in terms of the new name, Bank of America?  

MARC OKEN: Well, there is about 10 questions there. Let's see if I could get half of them. One way to look at our expenses -- and it's always dangerous, I think, to take things out and add them back -- but internally, we still have a goal of taking efficiency ratios down over time below 50 percent. We were getting pretty darn close before the Fleet merger. If you do take out the legal reserves this quarter, on an operating basis, which would include the $125 million of merger expense, you're somewhere around a 51.5 percent efficiency ratio, which we think is pretty good for a Company that just consummated a merger the size of Fleet.  

You'll see continued merger expenses for the rest of the year that will probably get us to somewhere around the $800 million level by the end of the year, is our guesstimate. But I think you'll see sa -- we have mentioned that we think we will get saves for the full course of Fleet of -- what is it? -- 1.1 to 1.3 billion, 1.375 after-tax, and that will take us through the end of 2005, with maybe half of those coming in 2004. So clearly, the message on saves is there is 206 million this quarter; that is the beginning. You should expect to see more saves in the second half and then a continuation in 2005.  

On the brand, I think you asked me, beginning in about mid-August the signs will change from Fleet to Bank of America in northern Massachusetts. In roughly mid-September, we will change the signs on the 30 stores in Manhattan. And beginning in early- to mid-December we will change the signs in New York City. Barring any delays because of conventions in either Boston or New York, we should be done by the end of the year with our sign change. It may roll into January.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: With the expense saves, 206 million in the second quarter is a terrific cost savings. Why wouldn't we expect the cost saves, your projected saves, the 1.375, to go up, because you've clearly got a big jump start. And then the second question is, how much of that came from the Fleet franchise as opposed to the Bank of America franchise? Of the 206 million?  

MARC OKEN: On the second question, we're not going to respond to that. I will tell you, as we told you before, that the cost saves cut across the franchise, because we obviously manage our business that way. So when we look at cost saves, we look at the business without necessarily focusing an where the saves are geographically. I think at this point, 1.375 -- of course, I would personally be delighted to take a number above that level -- but (ph) you are talking about a merger that is going to go out into the end of 2005, then it is really, I think, risky and unwise to predict after three months of this that we will exceed our target. But those are fairly generous savings and aggressive savings by themselves.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (inaudible)  

MARC OKEN: No, you would have to take into account what I said about revenue. Efficiency ratio is expenses divided by revenue. We are fairly optimistic on the revenue side.  

The other thing to think about in the cost saves, though, is if you think about what we're doing, the major platform conversions, which drive a lot of the cost saves, don't happen until first and second quarter of 2005. So you don't really get into a next-year ramp up in cost saves until you merge the platforms and you manage down headcount coming from all of those platform conversions.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Can you just comment on the distribution of the cost saves throughout the third and fourth quarter for the rest of the year? Versus the (multiple speakers)?  

MARC OKEN: You are asking about how much per quarter for third and fourth quarter? What are we talking about for the full -- after-tax, I think you will see maybe roughly even. We have those numbers; I can't quite recall them. I think they'll be ramping up some. The fourth quarter should be somewhat higher than the third, but not dramatic shifts in cost saves between the quarters.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: A couple questions about the outlook for net interest revenue. One was the net interest margin. I thought blending Fleet into Bank of America based on first-quarter data would have produced a little bit higher margins than what you actually showed in the quarter. So I was wondering if there is any story there.  

And then the broader question is you said you were a little less asset sensitive than you were three months ago. I wonder if you could elaborate on that. It seems like we are just in the early stages of rising rates, so why would you be less asset sensitive?  

MARC OKEN: Well, I think we are less asset sensitive because of the forward purchase commitments. So when I say that, you have to take those into account. In other words, we have already made commitments to buy assets in the second half. So taking those into account, we are less asset sensitive than we were at the end of the first quarter. We think that, as you and I have talked outside, we thought 1.5 percent quarter-over-quarter was pretty good NII growth. What you have going on there is you'll have prepays in the mortgage book which will take that book down some.  

We did, as we talked about in the first quarter, and you can see further discussions in the 10-Q, go from a net receive fixed (ph) to a net pay fixed position, and that will take the margin down some. We did that as a caution against curve flattening. And we sold securities in the second quarter. I think a combination of those three things, and offsetting all that, you had decent commercial loan growth, okay card growth. But I think we still are optimistic about the trajectory of that line for the remainder of the year, given the strategies that I've described that we are executing.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: (inaudible)  

MARC OKEN: Kevin is saying that when we talk about -- articulate our asset sensitivity, that is with the perspective of forward yield curve. Because the fact is we take action based on our view about rates rising to a level of the forward yield curve.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: You're saying that the forward purchases, when they actually are purchased and come on the balance sheet, that they will be at higher rates at some point in the future and rates will already have gone up, so then you will be less asset sensitive because we will have higher rates between now and then?  

MARC OKEN: Yes. We are essentially less asset sensitive because of that, yes. Let's go to the line, I think. Who do we have?  

OPERATOR: Tom McCandless, Deutsche Bank.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning, Mark. Just a follow-up. In the past, Jim has been kind enough to sort of gives us some duration measures for available for sale. I am wondering if you could do that for us now.  

MARC OKEN: Yes. The duration is down slightly, and Kevin is pulling that out of the book here. (multiple speakers) It fell slightly from the first quarter.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: A follow-up question. Also in the past, Jim has been good enough to share with us more of a breakdown of trading. You sort of referred to it generically or in general terms. I'm just wondering what was the dollar figures in fee income related to FX, interest rates, fixed income, (multiple speakers), etc., like (ph) what is in the 10-Q. Knowing that it is preliminary.  

MARC OKEN: (multiple speakers) hand me this page thinking -- because he can't read the page and he thinks I can. And I don't have my glasses either. Oh wait, I have them.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: (inaudible)  

MARC OKEN: Sorry, 4.49 to 4.36. I know you can't read this page.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: (inaudible)  

MARC OKEN: Hang a second. I know you can't read it, because you don't have --. Okay. Total trading is 390 million. FX is about 170. Interest rate contracts about 100. Equity is 92. And all other, (indiscernible). Okay?  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: Maybe I didn't catch this, on another note, but could you update us on your outlook for both charge-offs and provision in the second half?  

MARC OKEN: Sure. I basically said it in my speech. In the Commercial book, we continue to be very pleasantly surprised by asset quality, classification of the loans and the level of the charge-offs. That cannot continue. What we will see commercial loan growth, middle market growth in the second half. We hope to see the corporate book continue to decline. So just absolute balance-wise, at some point here, hopefully in the third quarter, you'll see the total Corporate/Commercial book level head on a slight increased trajectory.  

The asset quality improvement has been substantial. While we don't expect it to get worse, you can't expect it to continue forever to get better. The Consumer book will continue to grow, mainly driven by our success in card, and that has a higher charge-off rate and losses associated with it. It's the nature of the loan. So at some point, you should see a flattening to mild reversal in all of our credit statistics, driven by the factors that I just summarized.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: And how much is deemed to be unallocated in the reserves?  

MARC OKEN: Did we talk about that? We don't know. It has been around 19 percent, and I would just say you shouldn't see a seismic shift in that number. I haven't seen it, or if I did, I don't remember it for the second quarter.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: I guess what I'm getting at, Marc, is whether or not you think, given the continued better-than-expected improvement in Large Corporate, where there's conceivably large chunks of reserves allocated, whether or not you think reserves will continue to decline through the provision expense line?  

MARC OKEN: It's a quarter-by-quarter look, evaluation. It's both formally driven and judgmental. It's hard to tell what the trend will be, but it has been very positive and that can't continue forever. Having said that, our outlook for the economy and for our customers remains pretty positive. So I think you need to factor all that in in deciding where you think the provision and the reserves are going to go.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: Great. Then just two quick follow-ups. In May, it was announced that American Financial Realty Trust was (indiscernible) into a letter of understanding to purchase about $550 million of real estate from Bank of America. Are those transactions closed this quarter, and if so, what was the financial impact?  

MARC OKEN: I don't know if that closed this quarter or not. Actually, my recollection is that that is a second half event. The financial impact should be, and it has been -- the one other time we have done a transaction with them -- zero to negligible. What that does is give us liquidity in our owned and leased portfolio, which is an objective we constantly we strive for.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: Should we assume the same for the sale of the San Francisco building? Should we assume that there is not much impact from the sale of the 50 percent interest in the building in San Francisco?  

MARC OKEN: If that is consummated, that would be zero impact.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: Then the last question is related to yesterday's announcement. Could you share with everyone, now that you have a big captive audience, what was the strategic rationale for going after National Processing? What is a longer-term view of that business?  

MARC OKEN: It gives us a huge presence in merchant processing, dramatically increasing where we were before. Little financial -- big purchase price, obviously, $1.4 million is a lot of money. Little financial impact measurable. For the near-term future, this is purely a strategic acquisition for us. The landscape in the payments arena is changing dramatically over time, as customers are using fewer paper checks. The rise in debit card transactions, for which we are the number one debit card issuer in the United States, has increased dramatically. Use of credit cards, some use of ACH point-of-sale mechanisms. This just is a continued buildout for us in the payments arena that gives us the flexibility, the ability, as the arena changes, to have a large presence, as we have in the past in the payments market.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research, LLC.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning. I will try to do this in less than 15 minutes. Just a quick question on the levels of tangible equity. Could you speak to that and where you want to end up and how you expect that to proceed?  

MARC OKEN: That's the 4.8 ratio, I think.  

NANCY BUSH: Right.  

MARC OKEN: All of our ratios, capital ratios, we think are very strong. We talked earlier that Tier 1 went above our target of 8 percent sooner than we expected; we're delighted with that. Total capital ratios are strong. Leverage ratio is good. Our target ratio, long-term target ratio for the tangible equity ratio is about 5 percent. There's no hard and fast rule there. That one will take more time. It did rise very positively to 4.8 percent in the second quarter.  

That will take more time to get above 5 percent, because of the possible impact of a lot of things -- size of the balance sheet, OCI, if rates rise, etc. Probably would be surprised if it happened this year, but ultimately, we will get it there. It is not a constraint for Bank of America at that level; no impact on share repurchases. No impact on liquidity, capital flexibility. And just one we continue to watch and we will move it north.  

NANCY BUSH: Thank you. And I'm trying to get to the bottom-line number here. It was a huge trading quarter, and yes, there were some sizable offsets. But were there any areas of more prosaic spending that actually were elevated a bit in the quarter? It looked like marketing expense was high even relative to the combined levels of the previous quarter, etc.. Are there any other areas to look to?  

MARC OKEN: No, Nancy, I think quite the opposite. I think Ken's team is all very focused on getting below 50 percent; I mean, every one of us are. The marketing expense will be seasonal and that may be driven in part by a card marketing exercise. But there's nothing unusual there or anywhere else on the expense side of the equation, which you should expect to continue to see us manage very aggressively.  

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Two questions. One on the Commercial/Large Corporate side of the book. You mentioned that you are selling (ph) (indiscernible) to come down. Can you give us a sense of what the impact of the overhold positions are and to what degree that's driving the numbers there?  

MARC OKEN: Thank you, Kevin. Betsy's question was, did we lose any business because our clients ended up -- or we ended up with too much in a Client position because both Fleet and Bank of America had credit outstanding to those customers. I would say that's negligible or not measurable. I think that's one of the very first things that we focused on in the Fleet merger because of comments from our clients, concerns from our clients. And in fact, we early on measured the exposure to the clients that you're referring to and made a series of visits with the treasurers, the CFOs, the CEOs of those companies, to really (ph) take with them that there would be little or no effect on the combination of Fleet and Bank of America. So that was one of the strategies that I was involved in. Our Chief Credit Officer, our CEO, our Chairman, Chad Gifford, Gene Taylor and others. So I am confident that had very little effect on the continued decline of the Large Corporate book.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, so the Large Corporate book is declining still from repayments via bond market issuances?  

MARC OKEN: Yes, repayments, liquidity in the markets, inventories are not building significantly. Capital investment is not increasing significantly (multiple speakers).  

BETSY GRASECK: And then just on the Commercial side of the book, the middle market side, could you give us a little bit more color on the competitive nature that you are facing in the various markets? You mentioned that there had been some increased competition there, and I'm wondering what you are doing in the old Fleet footprint to keep your numbers accelerating, given the competition has picked up a bit.  

MARC OKEN: I would respond -- looking at the commercial middle market segment as a whole, we compete based on relationships and on the quality of our products. I think we do continue to see competitive pressures, unrealistic pricing, none of which we are engaging in. So I think our people are focused on that and our strategy is to leverage the relationships and keep the business. Other questions?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: On Commercial credit quality, can you make any comment on inflows of new nonperforming commercial loans in the second quarter versus the first, or anything on sales of nonperforming commercial loans in the quarter?  

MARC OKEN: On the first question, I don't think we have that yet. On the second, no sales that I am aware of. I think the answer is probably none.  

OPERATOR: Lori Appelbaum, Goldman Sachs.  

LORI APPELBAUM, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Marc, you mentioned that sales productivity I don't believe has improved since earlier this year. But could you comment on how customer retention trends have been in Fleet in the first three months that you have owned the company? And you mentioned that there's been some credit card runoff in the portfolio. I'm just wondering if that's sort of related to the merger.  

MARC OKEN: I think retention at Fleet -- early on, Ken Lewis's stated objective at Fleet was -- we were not focused on retaining Fleet customers; we were focused on growing Fleet customers. And I think the best anecdotal evidence we have to that is the growth in both the first quarter and in the second quarter -- you can see that in your packages -- of checking accounts and savings accounts. And we're absolutely delighted with that growth. And Leo McGee (ph), who heads our Consumer business, has set goals for the full year that are well in excess, if you double that success for the full year, which signals me that we are very optimistic that the momentum is building with growth in the Consumer franchise at Fleet. Maybe try and give the second question again.  

LORI APPELBAUM: You mentioned credit card runoff in the portfolio.  

MARC OKEN: Credit card -- runoff.  

KEVIN STITT: (inaudible)  

MARC OKEN: Yes. I didn't miss it. I read it. Thank you, Kevin. I know what the heck I read. Kevin was reading my speech and we had growth in the legacy Bank of America; We had some runoff in the Fleet, but that's because we moved the Large Portfolio from Fleet into Held for Sale. It's $1 billion -- $1.2 billion. So that would take the averages on the actual down. Other questions? I've got one on the line apparently.  

OPERATOR: David Stumpf, AG Edwards.  

DAVID STUMPF, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: Good morning. Marc, could you go over the trading account numbers again really quickly? I know it was 413 million this quarter. Can you give us again how that compares on a combined basis to what that line item would have been last quarter? And I think you mentioned the contribution of what was related MSR hedging that flowed through there. That would be helpful.  

Number two, does the cash acquisition of National Processing affect your excess capital enough that it has any bearing on buyback potential or balance sheet leverage plans at all?  

MARC OKEN: Just a second, David. On the second question, the $1.4 billion acquisition, there would be some intangibles in that, David. So it would impact the 4.8 percent tangible ratio, probably would be most sensitive to it. I haven't seen what that number is, but it wouldn't move it significantly.  

DAVID STUMPF: In terms of just dollar availability of excess capital, in other words, are you deploying some of that capital to this cash deal versus what would have otherwise gone to a buyback?  

MARC OKEN: No. No impact -- zero impact on buybacks. Our parent company -- the liquidity of the parent company ranges somewhere in the neighborhood of $25 billion.  

DAVID STUMPF: Right. Okay.  

MARC OKEN: So I think we're okay (ph).  

DAVID STUMPF: Yes.  

MARC OKEN: The trading numbers -- and this is GAAP basis, which doesn't have Fleet in the first quarter, David, but it wouldn't really change the trends much. The total trading line is $390 million in the second quarter; 170 million FX; 100 million interest interest rate contracts (technical difficulty), 90 million equities, and then various others.  

Now in the first quarter, the trading line item was 268 million for Bank of America, which doesn't include Fleet, but as I said, wouldn't be a big impact, and FX was 187. Interest rate contracts was 20. Fixed income was 90; it was 35 in the second quarter. Equities was breakeven versus the 90 that I mentioned in the second quarter.  

DAVID STUMPF: Maybe I'm confused. I was talking about the trading account profits, the 413 million in the second quarter, on your consolidated income statement.  

MARC OKEN: Okay. I'm sorry. Sorry to be slow there. What I gave you drives the bulk of our trading revenue in GCIB (multiple speakers). There's other stuff in there, none of which would be significant. I know I do not have the reconciliation that comes from businesses other than GCIB.  

DAVID STUMPF: Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Andy Collins, Piper Jaffray.  

ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Just a couple of quick detail questions. Forward sales on securities at lower rates, I'm just wondering if you are in the money in terms of that, and will we see securities gains there? Kind of an unrelated question, off-balance sheet and on-balance sheet, just wondering if you could tell us what the unrealized loss/gain position was?  

MARC OKEN: As I mentioned, and I think you could see this in the first quarter 10-Q -- and there will be a little more information in the second quarter 10-Q -- we do disclose forward sale commitments. We do not talk about the gains involved there because they're difficult to estimate. But what I did say was I don't think we should expect $795 million.  

The off-balance sheet we are pulling right now. That's the OCI on there.  

ANDY COLLINS: The OCI would be great, too.  

MARC OKEN: 1.5 billion negative. That's the change from quarter-to-quarter. Is that what you asked? We may have to come back to you on that one.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. And one other.  

MARC OKEN: That's the number we have; we just can't pull it out of our schedules right now.  

ANDY COLLINS: How about in terms of asset sensitivity, any kind of magnitude in terms of the change?  

MARC OKEN: It is down slightly on a 100 basis point parallel shift from what we would have told you in the first quarter.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay, down slightly.  

MARC OKEN: (multiple speakers) the rising rate and a declining rate environment. So it is roughly the same, but slightly lower on both measures.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay, great, thank you.  

KEVIN STITT: Andy, including everything, both securities and off-balance sheet, the fair value is almost breakeven at the end of the second quarter, which is down from 1.4 plus at the end of the first quarter. However, the securities portfolio has gone, obviously, from a plus to a negative. So the off-balance sheet is a positive (ph).  

ANDY COLLINS: Thank you.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: If we could just get maybe a little bit more color on the Investment Banking fees. I think you mentioned that leveraged loan fees were very important. But if we were to look at, say, debt underwriting, equity underwriting, M&A, if you could give us an idea of how those moved -- positive, negative, quarter-over-quarter, year-to-year (multiple speakers).  

MARC OKEN: Sure. Let us pull that out. Let's take one more question and we are pulling that number out right now.  

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian from Merrill Lynch.  

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I would like to bring some focus on the liability side of the balance sheet. First, could you give any sense of deposit pricing stickiness in your view as short-term rates rise and how you plan to deal with deposit rates in a rising rate backdrop?  

Second, can you give us any insight on how you might be adjusting your wholesale borrowing strategies, given your view on rates?  

MARC OKEN: I can address the first one. We talked before about our pricing process and strategy. We have a committee, a group of senior level executives, that meet monthly that look at our deposit pricing across the franchise. There is also a smaller group of management that meets weekly to look at pricing and can adjust pricing within a discretionary arrange. Our overall strategy is to be in the middle of the market, unless there's a reason to (indiscernible) prices up or down. We will continue with that strategy and raise rates as we see fit.  

Now on the question of stickiness, I think because we have not been a price leader and therefore attracted deposits that may leave if you don't continue with across-the-board high rates, because of the strategy we have executed, we don't anticipate any more than normal runoff as rates increase and probably should be better than most.  

ED NAJARIAN: Would you expect to keep deposit pricing increases noticeably, or could you give us any sense of how much below fed funds' increases they might be, or some kind of a range to just get a sense of upward drift in deposit pricing as rates rise?  

MARC OKEN: I think you ought to come back to Kevin on that one and we will try to give you more detail on it. The second question was on wholesale pricing strategies. Could you expand that a little?  

ED NAJARIAN: We talked a lot about your strategies of adjusting the asset side of the balance sheet, given rising rates. And I'm just wondering if you are doing anything similar on the funding side of the balance sheet.  

MARC OKEN: I will take a crack at that one. We manage interest rate sensitivity for the balance sheet as a whole. So implicitly, I think the liability pricing is part of that, and our forecast of deposit levels and other sources of funds. So that is the short answer, is it's part of the overall interest rate risk management.  

I will tell you something we have done that's not directly related to your question. We have gone out in the past year with two or three offerings into Europe, because we found that the size of the Company and our desire to keep our liquidity levels high has taken us -- and fixed income folks in the audience here will enjoy this -- into the European markets, where we hadn't been before as Bank of America. I hope that addresses your question. But that is basically what we do.  

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks.  

MARC OKEN: (indiscernible) This is GAAP versus combined. This is tied to the Investment Banking line item (ph), I think. So Investment Banking line item for the second quarter for Bank of America, which includes Fleet, was $547 million. And I will tell you what the second quarter and first quarter components were. The first quarter does not include Fleet, but the impact would not be significant, so this gives you the basic idea.  

In the underwriting arena -- okay, so it's 547 the second quarter, Investment Banking; 404 million in the first quarter. In underwriting, in equity, second quarter 92 million, first quarter 76 million. High-grade were both around 35 million for the second and first quarter. High-yield, 78 million in the second quarter, 57 million in the first quarter. Syndications more than doubled; 86 million in the first quarter, 182 million in the second quarter. And then Advisory Services were about 95 million in each quarter. Okay? Other questions on the line?  

OPERATOR: Ruchi Madan with Smith Barney.  

RUCHI MADAN, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: A couple of questions about the forward purchases. Can you give us any idea of how much, when they come on, or the revenue associated with them?  

MARC OKEN: We will see it in the Q. I have seen it at a high level, Ruchi, and it is more weighted toward the fourth quarter. And it is implicit in our view of where NII is going to be for '04 and obviously part of our preplanning for '05.  

RUCHI MADAN: Also, at the end of last quarter, you were in a $60 billion net pay position. Can you update us on that?  

MARC OKEN: At the end of this quarter -- Kevin is going to pull it out. I want say -- what is our net pay (indiscernible)? You are asking for the notional amount?  

RUCHI MADAN: Yes.  

MARC OKEN: It is a net pay of 76. 76.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. And the restructuring of the securities portfolio, was that done towards the end of the quarter?  

MARC OKEN: That resulted in the gain this quarter?  

RUCHI MADAN: Yes.  

MARC OKEN: It mainly resulted from forward sales decisions that we would have made fourth quarter and the first quarter. If you read our 10-Q for the first quarter, you will see that laid out.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. And then earlier in the call, you mentioned something about an accounting change in asset management impacting revenue recognition. Can you quantify that?  

MARC OKEN: I'm trying to think of what I said. It is an alignment -- I know you know this. When you do a merger and you align accounting policies across the board, and the Bank of America revenue recognition policy, which I would say, since I had responsibility for, with Jim, is reasonably conservative and more conservative than Fleet's, which was perfectly appropriate, resulting in a reduction initially in revenue that comes back over time. That's part of the dip (ph) in the revenue.  

RUCHI MADAN: Can you say how much that was?  

MARC OKEN: I can't remember. We wouldn't disclose it, but it's --  

RUCHI MADAN: Is it meaningful?  

MARC OKEN: It is probably a third of the reduction.  

RUCHI MADAN: In the brokerage line?  

MARC OKEN: Yes.  

RUCHI MADAN: Thank you.  

MARC OKEN: Do we have any final questions from the room?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: What was the combined margin in the first quarter?  

MARC OKEN: Net interest (ph) yield?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.  

MARC OKEN: We give that to you. The net interest yield is actually up in the second quarter from the first quarter, which is something we haven't seen for a while. Kevin is trying to pull it out. It's up 7 basis points to 379, is that right? On a GAAP basis, it's up 7 basis points. I don't know that I've seen it on a combined (technical difficulty). I don't think we've actually done it on a combined basis, and I'm trying to think of -- it's up 7 on a GAAP basis. That should be reflective, I think, of what would be if you did it on a combined basis, but I'm not sure.  

We leverage our balance sheet more through asset liability management. Trading assets are higher, so both of those are elements that you don't see in the Fleet Bank. So when you're pulling them together, you are going to get a pop in the net interest yield.  

And then additionally, if you look at the Fleet assets that come in, there are some foreign assets, principally Latin America, that have higher yields than traditional U.S. assets, and then their funding cost for the foreign source of the local funding has a lower cost. So all of those factors combine to drive up the net interest average yield slightly.  

KEVIN STITT: (inaudible)  

MARC OKEN: Did it rise or fall? Okay. Kevin is saying it was 3.22 for legacy Bank of America. 3.29 on a reported basis, up 7 basis points. 3.29 is the combined. yes.  

Okay, no further questions back there? Listen, we want to thank you for being with us today on the line and in person to hear us talk about the results for the first quarter, which we think (ph) for our Company and we will see you at the next meeting in October. Thank you.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040728e07e0008d
  


 HD
 Q1  2004  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,831 words
   PD
14 April 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
KEVIN STITT, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INVESTOR RELATIONS, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt, Bank of America, Investor Relations.  

Before Jim Hance, Our Chief Financial Officer begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial conditions, results and expectations, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures in the financial services industry, or legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses. For additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.  

   TD
With that let me turn the meeting over to Jim Hance.  

JIM HANCE, VICE CHAIRMAN, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Thanks, Kevin.  

Kevin, you need a new script. Our real Chief Financial Officer here with me this morning. Let me introduce him to you now. It's Mark Oken over here. And Mark is CFO as of April 2nd. So congratulations, Mark.  

Good morning. Welcome to the quarterly earnings review for Bank of America. I would like to cover four areas today.  

First, our normal review of Bank of America earnings for the quarter. Second, a quick summary of results of FleetBoston for the quarter, third an update on our integration efforts so far. And then finally some general thoughts on how Bank of America will look for the remainder of the year given that the Fleet merger closed on April 1st, and we will be reporting combined results for the second quarter and going forward.  

Earnings from the core business for both banks was very strong and reflected growth in the economy and the efforts that both institutions over the past several quarters to focus on their retail businesses. Core results at Bank of America for the first quarter were clearly in line with expectations that we laid out for you in January.  

Total revenues excluding securities gains rose 7% from a year ago and all in exemplifies the best annual start we have had in the past several years. Customer metrics demonstrate that our strategies over the past several quarters to improve customer satisfaction and grow the customer base are consistently meeting or exceeding our aggressive goals.  

In the first quarter our Consumer and Commercial bank produced excellent growth in customer accounts and sales productivity including both the retail sector and our middle market base. The Global Corporate and Investment bank had a good quarter with non-interest income reaching its highest level in more than six quarters. Period end core deposits were up 3% from the end of year.  

Consumer credit quality continued to perform well while the middle market and large corporate portfolios improved as well. Non-performing assets dropped 18% from year-end as a result of lower levels and then large corporate and commercial portfolios and are half of the levels from a year ago.  

Criticized assets are also down a like amount.  

Provisions for credit losses in the quarter was $624 million while net charge offs was $720 million. We are well positioned to benefit from a rise in long-term rates.  

Finally, the major regulatory regulatory investigations were resolved during the quarter. All of these factors resulted in earnings of $2.7 billion, or $1.83 per diluted share, an increase of 15% in earnings per share from the first quarter a year ago and steady with the record fourth quarter results.  

When making comparisons of results between periods I will try to use the comparison that best conveys the actual trends in our various businesses. Some linked quarter comparisons are poor indicators of real trends due to seasonality from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.  

Let's start with net interest income for the company in total before turning to individual businesses.  

Net interest income on an FTE basis in the quarter increased 4%, or $225 million from the fourth quarter and 11%, or $609 million from a year ago. Primary drivers of the increase in the fourth quarter were higher securities levels, consumer and middle market commercial loan growth, and higher trading related net interest income.  

Offsetting some of this increase was the impact of one less day in the quarter, reductions in the large corporate and foreign and exited portfolios and lower mortgage warehouse levels. At quarter end, the level of our asset liability management portfolio decreased from year-end, as a reduction in swaps and forward positions more than offset the additional mortgages and securities that you see on the balance sheet.  

During the quarter we generated $495 million in debt securities gains, as we continue to position our asset liability management portfolio to take advantage of interest rate fluctuations and to reduce certain exposures to rising rates.  

Now let's take a look at the individual businesses.  

Consumer and Commercial Banking earned $1.9 billion, or almost 70% of the corporation's first quarter earnings with a return on equity of 32%. Highlights during the quarter included excellent account and deposit growth, strong fee generation driven by card income and service charges, and the continuing pickup in Commercial Banking loan activity.  

Improvements in our sales processes nationwide, increasing brand awareness through marketing and new products are driving the progress with our consumer customers.  

In the first quarter net new consumer checking accounts increased 425,000, which is almost double the increase of 220,000 in the fourth quarter of last year. Driving this increase was ongoing improvement in our ability to retain existing accounts and the popularity of the My Access checking account.  

Net new savings accounts opened in the quarter were 531,000, more than four times the number opened in the fourth quarter. And for comparison, net new savings accounts opened a year ago were 125,000.  

Active online banking customers keep growing as well and now exceed the 8 million mark, up 55% from a year ago while 3.7 million customers pay their bills online. And that's up 79% from a year ago. Online banking customers who use bill pay are instrumental, as you know, in driving retention levels higher as well as increasing deposit and loan balances.  

These increases in new accounts also reflected continuing improvement in customer satisfaction, as defined by the top two box scores, which grew in the first quarter from year-end levels, from 51% to 52% specifically.  

Another important measure of growth we are tracking closely is sales productivity in our banking centers. Product sales in the banking centers climbed 39% year-over-year. This includes many important products such as checking, savings and investments, credit and debit cards, as well as mortgages, home equity, and other loans.  

We are also seeing a like increase in sales per associate per day. This associate statistic is even more impressive given the fact that we added about 150 branches with sales staff coming up to speed that dilutes the productivity measure.  

Card income increased 17% from a year ago. It was down slightly from the fourth quarter due to seasonality.  

Debit card purchases, volumes remain strong showing a 26% growth year-over-year. Consumer credit card volumes were also up 24%. Total managed card revenue, including net interest income, increased 23% in the first quarter from a year ago.  

Card receivables on average grew 26% on a managed basis with excellent risk adjusted margins of approximately 8.8%. Service charges as a whole rose 6% from the first quarter of last year, and benefited from higher levels of deposit fees from new account growth.  

Turning to mortgage banking income.  

Mortgage banking income of $209 million dropped 28% from the fourth quarter as expected, driven by the slowdown in the refi activity that took place at the end of the year along with tightening spreads. However, the temporary drop in rates in the first quarter resulted in a surge in originations in the latter part of the quarter.  

Originations during the quarter were $24 billion. And that was up 30% from fourth quarter activity. Applications in March were the fourth highest month we have had, so we can expect to see some benefits from this in our second quarter results.  

Home equity lines are continuing to show improved results from last year's stepped up focus with balances rising 5% from fourth quarter levels to approximately $25 billion. Impacting trading account profits within the consumer and commercial bank this quarter was a net reduction in the value of our mortgage banking asset of $275 million.  

This represents the net mark to market adjustment on mortgage banking assets and the related derivative instruments due to faster prepayment speeds and changes in other assumptions relative to our portfolio management.  

Period end deposits in Consumer and Commercial bank at $337 billion, which, as you know, represents the bulk of our core deposits, were up 11% from a year ago and 3% from the fourth quarter, again reflecting our efforts to add new customers and deepen existing relationships that we already have.  

Consumer credit quality remains stable. Managed credit card net losses as a percentage of the net portfolio decreased 9 basis points to 5.05% on an annualized basis for the fourth quarter and are 20 basis points below levels in the first quarter a year ago.  

Net losses in dollar terms increased in the fourth quarter and from a year ago due to portfolio growth and seasoning.  

Thirty-day delinquencies improved by 18 basis points versus the fourth quarter and 43 basis points versus a year ago. Ninety-day delinquencies, however, ticked up slightly from the fourth quarter but improved by 10 basis points from a year ago.  

Excluding credit card, remaining consumer net charge offs decreased from both the fourth quarter levels and from results a year ago.  

As we told you in January, we are looking for increases in Commercial Banking activity to extend into 2004, and that is what we experienced. For the quarter, average outstanding Commercial Banking loans within Consumer and Commercial Banking increased $1.1 billion, or 2% from year-end.  

Commercial Banking quality also continued to improve as net charge offs within Commercial Banking were down more than 50% from the fourth quarter to their lowest level in several years. Commercial Banking non-performing loans dropped 13% from levels last quarter and are down about 32% from levels a year ago.  

We have been well positioned competitively for over a year now to take advantage of the current market as it recovers and we are benefiting from that strategy.  

Before I turn to our other businesses, let me summarize the impact this quarter of the mutual fund settlement that was announced in early March.  

As previously disclosed the financial impact was approximately 16 cents per share in the first quarter. And represented both the amount for discouragement and restitution, which was $250 million, combined with a fine of $125 million, partially offset by $90 million that we had previously recorded in reserves.  

These net charges, net $285 million, flowed through the "Other" general operating expense category on the consolidated statement of income.  

In addition, going forward, we have committed to reducing mutual fund management fees by $80 million over five years, and that's excluding the Fleet settlement. This $80 million averages out to approximately $4 million per quarter.  

For management reporting purposes, these settlement charges were spread evenly between Global Corporate and Investment bank and Asset Management.  

So, turning to Global Corporate and Investment Banking, earnings in their first quarter, including the settlement charge of approximately $143 million pretax, were $463 million with a return on equity of 21%. And that's compared to $552 million in the fourth quarter and $460 million a year ago.  

Excluding the settlement for comparison purposes, GCIB earnings would have exceeded fourth quarter results due to higher trading related revenue of $296 million as well as improved credit quality. These results are impressive if you think of the headwinds in the business of higher compliance and operating costs and the continued shrinkage of the large corporate lending book.  

Total trading related revenue for the first quarter was $845 million. And that's an increase of 54% from the fourth quarter.  

Fixed income more than doubled to $508 million, driven primarily by high yield debt and investment-grade trading. Foreign exchange revenue increased 22% to $189 million.  

Revenue from interest rate contracts of $168 million was essentially flat, however, due to slower than expected uptick in economic news and a more stable yield curve. Trading related assets continued to grow as we emphasized our relationships with institutional investors.  

Investment Banking revenue dropped 11% from results in the fourth quarter, but effectively increased 4% from results in the first quarter a year ago. Versus the fourth quarter, securities underwriting decreased 6% to $218 million as increases in revenue from high-yield debt were offset by decrease in high grade and equities.  

Syndications revenue dropped 23% from the fourth quarter to $85 million as leveraged loan activity decreased. Advisory services held steady at $77 million, in line with a very strong fourth quarter.  

The pipeline at the end of the quarter looks strong in several areas and should be positively influenced by the improving economy. Corporate loans and leases in GCIB continued to decline and were down almost $2 billion from year-end levels to $40 billion.  

Now, excluding the impact of Parmalat, credit quality in GCIB continued to improve from year-end levels. Large corporate net charge offs were $96 million in the first quarter, and that was up $20 million from fourth quarter levels but down $176 million, or 65% from a year ago. And these charge offs included $106 million for Parmalat exposure not secured by insurance.  

Additional Parmalat losses were also incurred during the quarter in trading for marking down our remaining derivative exposure of approximately $29 million. At the end of March, remaining exposure to Parmalat was $120 million of loans and derivatives carried as non-performing assets of which $105 million is supported by credit insurance.  

Large corporate non-performing assets dropped $309 million, or 24% from levels at year-end, and that was driven mainly by paydown and the Parmalat charge off. Inflows of new loans in the non-accrual status continue to be low versus recent quarters. Criticized assets also dropped 26% from the prior quarter.  

While we are more than pleased with the overall credit quality, we continue to remain cautious and monitor certain industries that could pose problems if the economy surprises on the negative side.  

Our third core business segment is Asset Management. Like GCIB Asset Management earnings for the quarter of $53 million reflected a mutual fund settlement impact on them of the same number, and that's approximately $143 million pretax.  

Total revenue, however, increased 14% from results a year ago. Driving this improvement from a year ago was increased sales in Marsico.  

In the private bank a renewed focus last year on repositioning Bank of America as a full-service provider, in addition to a financial advisor, is gaining traction as deposits during the quarter are at an all-time high and loans are growing. We believe this focus as a full-service provider will produce benefits in the New England market going forward as we were able to offer a wider array of products.  

We increased our number of financial advisors by 6% from the fourth quarter and by 25% over the past 12 months.  

Assets under management at the end of the quarter were $337 billion, reflecting a 5% growth in equities from fourth quarter levels offset by a 2% drop in money markets and other short-term funds. Excluding money markets and other short-term funds assets under management were up 32% from a year ago.  

Our final business area is Equity Investments.  

In the Equity Investment line on our statement of income shows income was $133 million compared to $215 million in the fourth quarter and a negative $68 million a year ago. Investments at the parent drove results as principal investing non-interest income was essentially breakeven, although gross cash gains continue to grow.  

Going forward, we are looking for a continued step-up in liquidity events in principal investing correlating with an improved economic picture.  

Now let me spend a few minutes highlighting first quarter results at FleetBoston.  

As you know our acquisition of FleetBoston closed on April 1st, and under purchase accounting rules Fleet's results will be combined with Bank of America from that day going forward. Consequently the combined numbers won't be reported until our second quarter earnings release in July.  

Although Fleet's first quarter earnings will not be announced officially, we have included these results in our financial supplement for your information.  

As you can see, Fleet earned $773 million, or 71 cents per diluted share on their basis, up 4% from the 68 cents in the fourth quarter and up 32% from 54 cents a year ago. Total revenue for them excluding securities gains increased 3% in the fourth quarter and almost 15% from a year ago.  

Helping their margin was 3% growth in the fourth quarter in lower cost, core consumer and commercial deposits, including the key deposit categories of money market, regular savings, and NOW accounts.  

During the quarter net new consumer checking accounts increased 11,000 and product sales in the banking centers climbed 14%.  

Non-interest income increased 3% from the fourth quarter due to strength in several businesses including the mutual fund platform, brokerage, and private equity. Total non-interest expense of $1.96 billion in the first quarter was $241 million higher than fourth quarter levels, primarily due to the mutual fund settlement charge of $140 million.  

Merger-related expenses of $33 million, higher marketing costs of $25 million, and higher legal and professional fees of approximately $50 million. The $59 million specialist settlement was offset by previously recorded reserves and had no impact on net income in the first quarter.  

On the asset quality front, non-performing assets at Fleet were down 37%, or $726 million from year-end, of which $532 million was a reduction in exposure to Argentina. This reduced exposure to Argentina included a bulk sale of loans, security sales, and charge offs.  

Net loan charge offs including Argentina totaled $233 million in the first quarter, and that compared to $250 million in charge offs in the fourth quarter. Excluding Argentina net loan charge offs were down 29% from the fourth quarter to $179 million.  

As a result of the significant non-performing asset reduction and the improved quality of the overall loan portfolio the loan loss provision for Fleet was reduced to zero. Loan loss reserves, however, at quarter end were $2.8 billion, or 2.2% of total loans.  

The Latin American actions reflected the execution over the past several quarters of previously announced risk reduction strategies.  

Shareholders equity at Fleet amounted to $19 billion at March 31st.  

Now, soon after the merger announcement in October we began laying out the various phases of the integration effort. As a result, we are much further ahead in many of our initiatives than any other acquisition we have done over the past 15 years.  

Our leadership team is in place with the top three levels of management announced last year. And further announcements made in January in the various lines of business.  

Major integration initiatives were laid out systematically based on capacity planning so we do not overextend our resources or dramatically affect business as usual. Key business and transition challenges were identified and target environments were established.  

All the key consumer and commercial market executives for the northeast are in place and are trained. Implementation is already occurring across the board.  

A good example of this is the rollout of our loan solutions mortgage platform into our Connecticut stores. That rollout has been within two weeks of the merger closing date and is being followed by additional expansion into the rest of New England by year-end.  

Customers of both Bank of America and Fleet can use nearly 16,500 ATM machines across the country to make cash withdrawals without incurring ATM fees. We're also working together to allow more than 33 million consumer relationships, the ability to utilize the services of 6,000 branches across the country in special situations.  

Our corporate bankers are already performing client calls and we have fully consolidated our trading floors. We will start changing signage in the fourth quarter and we expect to be completed by year-end.  

Now, after an in-depth review we have decided to implement the model bank in the Fleet franchise in the second quarter of next year. The deciding factor was desire on the Fleet side to improve the functionality that the model bank will bring to the branch sales effort.  

Further, certain attributes of the Fleet system will be implemented into the model bank that we think are an improvement and these will then be rolled out, back, if you will, to the overall franchise. Our estimated cost for putting in the model bank in Fleet is approximately $200 million pretax.  

As you know, our original cost save target was $1.1 billion after tax. We believed in October that this number was a very realistic goal and after a thorough review of all businesses and staff support are confidence that we can move quicker due to closing the merger earlier and that we can exceed the numbers originally disclosed in October.  

Consequently we believe our original cost save projection for 2004 of $250 million after tax will be exceeded. We believe total cost saves of $1.1 billion by the end of 2005 are still in line, and we believe we have an additional cost save over and above the $1.1 billion that will be realized in early 2006.  

Our updated after tax savings target is now estimated to be between $1.1 billion and $1.375 billion, with the potential $275 million increased being realized, as I said, in 2006.  

We will bring to your attention the specific saves when we report earnings going forward and do our best to highlight the areas affected. The sheer test, however, to check our progress is to watch our expense levels and our efficiency ratio in a combined new entity.  

Now, merger and restructuring charges impacting the statement of income is estimated to be $800 million after tax spread over the next four to five quarters. An 8-K was filed this morning detailing pro forma purchase accounting adjustments to 2003 to both the statement of income and the balance sheet. The higher savings target and the merger charges are disclosed in this 8-K.  

While the pro forma adjustments will impact net interest income and non-interest expense, the adjustments net out so that the impact on net income going forward is minimal. Purchase accounting adjustments affecting the balance sheet are also detailed, including adjustments for purchase price, core deposit intangibles, fair value of assets and liabilities, and for estimates for certain exit and termination liabilities.  

Exit and termination liabilities of Fleet are estimated to be $500 million for severance and relocation. And approximately $170 million for contract termination liabilities.  

Factoring in the impact of these adjustments on capital should put us in the Tier One range on a pro forma basis of between $7.65 and $7.75 in line with our estimates from several months ago.  

Now let me say a few words about how best to think of the combined companies going forward into the second quarter.  

As of the beginning of April, common shares outstanding after the exchange of Fleet's shares were 2.04 billion, which translates into diluted shares outstanding of 2.08 billion. As you know, we were essentially out of the market for repurchasing shares for most of the first quarter, around earnings in January and then secondly during the proxy solicitation period in February and March.  

Once we get through earnings today, we will be back to repurchasing on a more normal basis.  

You also know we don't give quarterly earnings guidance other than our customary annual outlook that we do in January. However, since the addition of Fleet's results going forward will significantly alter Bank of America results in virtually all areas, I thought I would try this morning to ballpark a certain few line items to help you with your financial models.  

Using the first quarter as a base and excluding major unusual items, we estimate the main categories in the statement of income to be as follows: First, net interest income on an FTE basis in the first quarter was a combined $7.7 billion and with purchase accounting, should trend slightly higher going forward.  

Second, combined net charge offs were approximately $950 million in the first quarter and included $150 million for Parmalat between the two of us. Going into the second quarter we believe charge offs will be in the range of 850 to $950 million.  

Third, non-interest income.  

Non-interest income was a combined $5.2 billion in the first quarter and included $275 million for the write-down of the mortgage banking asset. Going into the second quarter, we believe non-interest income will be approximately $5.5 billion and could go higher, or lower, of course, because of volatility of market sensitive areas.  

Debt securities gains are driven by our response to interest rate fluctuations, so we will discuss them after the fact rather than putting out a projection.  

Non-interest expense was a combined $7.4 billion in the first quarter and included $425 million for the mutual fund settlements. Going into the second quarter we believe non-interest expense, including purchase accounting, will be approximately $6.9 billion or lower as cost saves are realized.  

The effective tax rate before the FTE adjustments should be between 33 and 34%. Factoring in the FTE adjustments for your financial models should move the ratio to between 35 and 36%.  

There will be merger related and restructuring costs in each of the next three-quarters of 2004 that will probably average approximately $200 million each quarter on an after tax basis.  

All the major businesses, retail, commercial, wealth and investment management, and the corporate bank, should benefit from an economy that is continuing to demonstrate decent growth. Both banks at the end of March were positioned to benefit from an increase in interest rates, and that is exactly what we are seeing since the end of the first quarter.  

Both an improving economy and a rising long-term interest rate scenario should result in increased revenue growth in the third and fourth quarters. These factors combined with our initiatives that we are rolling out in New England and the projected cost efficiencies make us optimistic that 2004 will be a very good year for earnings.  

Now, with that, let me open up the floor to questions, for both Mark and me. Mike?  

OPERATOR: At this time if you would like to ask a question from the phone lines please press the star and one on your touch-tone phone. Once again to ask a question from the phone line please press the star and one at this time. Thank you.  

MIKE: What's your worst case scenario and how are you thinking about the leveraging of the balance sheet this quarter with the $40 billion of additional securities?  

JIM HANCE: With what?  

MIKE: The $40 billion additional securities this quarter.  

JIM HANCE: Sure. Let me just sort of give you, if I can, an interest rate posture and kind of flavor here.  

Since the end of December, we have substantially repositioned the Bank of America balance sheet. Let's take that separate from Fleet a minute. And you could see several aspects of it, and you'll see more when the 10-Q is filed. But three sort of highlights, all right, and then I'll sort of summarize it for you.  

One, we did increase on-balance sheet securities. Two, we reduced off-balance sheet swaps and derivatives by about $130 billion to put us in a position of a net pay fix position.  

Third, we put ourselves in a sensitivity, and the best way to describe it, Mike, is to say that if interest rates went down 100% we would have net interest income impact of greater than 9% over the next 12 months, assuming we did nothing. That is a very asset-sensitive position.  

And third, you could see by the security gains that we took, all the activity and the dynamic management change. So we are sitting under-invested. All right? We're waiting for rates to go up. We've seen that.  

Fleet, on its own, was poised for higher rates and under-invested. So together we're very under-invested. And we've been waiting for rates and been wrong for higher rates for, what, two years here. So we're now back in that posture again, of waiting for higher rates. Does that help?  

MIKE: [inaudible] yield curve, in terms of steepness of yield curve?  

JIM HANCE: We actually think we're get a non-parallel shift. We think we'll get a less steepening yield curve, albeit higher rates across the board with short-terms coming up the most, which is good for us when you consider the nature of our consumer assets and our deposit funding. Clarence.  

CLARENCE: In bringing the two portfolios together, loan portfolios, could you discuss whether there were any significant issues in terms of methodology, in terms of reserves, charge offs, non-performing assets?  

JIM HANCE: Yeah, good question. We're still in the process of putting them all together, and then we're going to sort of reformulate where we think we should be. We're going to apply, if you will, the Bank of America methodology across the board.  

As you heard us talk about when we talked about the combination initially, we had less overlap than we've ever had in the past in major combinations in terms of names and specific credit. That said, we still have some concentrations we want to reduce. So we're in the process of doing that.  

Fleet is particularly well reserved, as I mentioned, at 2.2%, if you will. We're about 1.65, something like that. We need to look and see where that settles out and how it relates to the fact that we're more than 50% consumer. And headed further that way as GCIB continues to reduce.  

There are no major issues or any adjustments that had to do with the loan portfolio at Fleet or you would see them in the purchase accounting adjustments in the 8-K that we filed this morning. They're just not there which is very good news.  

Their credit quality is also improving rapidly and they continue to take steps to reduce the Argentine risk and that's freeing up reserves which is why they had such a good first quarter. So all in all, very good. A few industries we are looking at to try and reduce, but very pleased with the overall combination. Ron.  

RON: Yeah, I have a couple of questions about your guidance. One was in the charge offs. You said combined were $950 million and you saw, including 150 from Parmalat, and you saw a range of 850 to 950. It would seem to me that your base is kind of 800 adjusting for Parmalat, so why would you see charge offs higher?  

JIM HANCE: That's a great question. I think it kind of is 800. What we think though, is that we're going to have continuing dollar increase coming from credit card albeit not percentage increases, and that's a function of very strong growth in credit card and some of the other consumer businesses. So we think we'll see the dollar number sort of rise, although the percentage number should stay very, very low.  

RON: Okay.  

JIM HANCE: So that's the main thing. We just sort of left in our minds an open end in case something happens. Don't know why.  

RON: And do you think you'll be providing equal to charge off?  

JIM HANCE: That's a really great question. I don't know how to answer that yet. We haven't now for three-quarters. All right? Third, fourth, and first, our provisions have been lower than charge offs. We're going to have to evaluate where we are, vis-a-vis the reserve front and where floor is on the reserve, in connection with what it looks like with Fleet and see how that functions through.  

You also have the situation where Fleet was particularly well reserved on their Latin American exposure, and as that exposure is sold at near par or near a recorded value and it's freeing up reserves in a large amount. We have to see if those need to be reallocated or whether they go through the P&L.  

RON: The other question was on expenses. You said $7.4 billion was the combined figure including the mutual fund settlements of 400 something and so the $6.9 billion of guidance includes, I think you said, the purchase accounting adjustments meaning intangible write-offs?  

JIM HANCE: Yes.  

RON: And how much do you now estimate the intangible write-offs will be?  

JIM HANCE: Marc, do you have that, the 8-K? Kevin? I don't remember what it is by quarter. I don't know what it is by quarter. We'll get it for you. We've got it.  

RON: But the point is that you see significant cost savings in the balance of the year?  

JIM HANCE: That's right. We know we're going to have greater end-year effect in '04 than the original guidance which was 250 after tax, and some of that will come quicker, which is second, third, and fourth quarter, although it won't be even, Ron. So we view our run rate sort of ceiling, if that's the way to call it, at 6.9, including purchase accounting.  

RON: So how much more than the 250 do you think it might be?  

JIM HANCE: That's still somewhat up in the air. It could be as much as triple, in the in-year.  

RON: Say that again.  

JIM HANCE: The in-year effect.  

RON: So it could be as much as $750 million after tax?  

JIM HANCE: Potentially.  

RON: This year.  

JIM HANCE: But it just depends on the timing of system conversions, of signage changes, of everything that's going on across. The in-year effect in '05 is one-one, okay, so the question is how much of that do we also get in '04. But you also have the larger restructuring charges coming in '04. Right? I mean, and that's going to be averaged more or less 200 a quarter after tax. So that runs through the P&L, so that's an '04 event as well.  

RON: Yeah.  

UNIDENTIFIED: [inaudible] I'm confused on what you just said. Are you bringing forward your expense saves basically that were anticipated in 2005? More of them are going to show up this year? Is that basically it?  

JIM HANCE: Yes, that's right, because we're closing earlier, taking action quicker end the transition quicker, all is quicker. But we don't get it all. Remember? Remember that we said the ceiling, or the total, initially was going to be 1.1. We now think it's bigger, and we get 1.1 per share in '05, we get a little bit more cumulative run rate by '06, and the '04 number, which we originally said was like 250, we believe is going to be higher.  

UNIDENTIFIED: I would like to go back to a previous question if I may just on rates. You said if rates went down, I don't know, 100% or something --. 100 basis points, which would be to zero, right? Yeah.  

JIM HANCE: I think, check me on that.  

UNIDENTIFIED: I think you're right on that. But what did you say the impact would be? I mean, would you get killed right?  

JIM HANCE: Right. I was trying to demonstrate our position for sensitivity upward rates and the best way I can do that is describe what happens to us on a downward rate. Remember, you've been listening to me for years. We tend to run fairly neutral in terms of interest rate risk. The variances don't tend to be more than 2 or 3%. We are now sitting -- either way, right, on net interest over a 12 month period on a 100 basis point change.  

What we are now sitting with is a very sensitive position for higher rates. Okay? And one of the reasons I want to make that point is there's been a lot of press on us getting hurt with higher rates and that's wrong. That's just wrong. Okay? That is not how we're positioned.  

ROGER LISTER, MORGAN STANLEY: Can I jump in? I've got the mike.  

JIM HANCE: Sorry.  

ROGER LISTER: This is Roger Lister from Morgan Stanley. Looking at the capital ratios, your Tier One ratios declined moderately but your leverage ratio is down significantly from a year ago, it's now about 5.4%, which gets you closer to the 5%, sort of minimum, if you will, capitalized. Two sort of questions. One, do you feel that that's a constraint on share buy backs, and maybe more important question is, what does the impact of the combination with Fleet have on that ratio, given they tend to run with a little bit more capital?  

JIM HANCE: Well, that's right. I mean, our current ratios are low, right? Lower.  

And you remember what we did in the fourth quarter was we bought a lot of shares back. We front-ended, if you will, the shares we had told investors we would buy back, or partially, anyway, buy back in connection with the combination. So -- and we did it because we knew that Fleet had excess capital. So now that excess capital is benefiting us, and effectively helps our capital ratios.  

So we think we have some margin, although we watch it. We will watch it closely, but the earnings impact is very strong. All right? And we can earn our way out of it fairly rapidly.  

RON O'CONNELL, ABN AMRO: Ron O'Connell, ABN Amro. I just want to clarify one thing, Jim. With regard to the larger than expected cost savings is that just because of the speed of implementation or are you revisiting the scale of staff reductions?  

JIM HANCE: It's a little bit of both, okay? We've accelerated it some, all right, and then we have a little bit more savings than we originally estimated. Now we've been through all the transition planning and we're in the execution phase. Marc, do you want to add to that more?  

MARK OKEN, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: I think that's it, Jim. We went into the merger with Fleet with the objective of exceeding our goal, and we did, and our confidence level that we'll do that is very high.  

JIM HANCE: Now remember these are not cumulative. They're pieces in each year, and then it cumulates, right?  

RON O'CONNELL: Okay.  

JIM HANCE: Going to run you all over the room here. Over here. Does that help you? Is that what you needed, Matt?  

MATT: Thanks. Looking at the half billion dollar decline in commercial non-performing loans, I know you said most of that was paydowns and Parmalat but were there any sales of non-performing commercial loans in the quarter?  

JIM HANCE: Yeah, minor. I mean, not that we're opposed to it, we just didn't need to do it. 100, you think? It was very small. There was a lot in Argentina, which is very positive. Freed up reserves and everything else, so that was very good, but on the B of A side, very small, $100 million, sort of. We try and always have our hand in. We actually don't have a lot of loans held for sale and you'll see that when the 10-Q shows up.  

MATT: Thanks.  

JIM HANCE: Question on the telephone. Phones?  

OPERATOR: We have a question from the site of Nancy Bush at NAB Research. Go ahead.  

NANCY BUSH, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, Jim. How are you?  

JIM HANCE: I'm fine, Nancy. How are you?  

NANCY BUSH: Good. Thank you. Two foreign questions for you. Average foreign deposits and period end foreign deposits were up on the balance sheet. Was there anything particular going on there?  

JIM HANCE: No, we were just chasing lower rates. We're particularly dynamic in where we seek funding, and that was literally all it was. Don't necessarily know if that's sustainable but we found some cheaper funding and took advantage of it.  

NANCY BUSH: And the exiting, the rather dramatic exiting from some of the Argentine loans, et cetera, in the first quarter, what does this mean for the fundamentals of those businesses? I mean, you know, is this sort of one of the final steps in getting out of Argentina? And if I could also extend that question to Brazil as well.  

JIM HANCE: Yeah, I don't view it that way. What I view the fairly large exit of the particular loans to be is the market sort of coming to where book was, right?  

In other words, I mean, the sale, if you will, or the improvement that's going on down there, has emboldened investors to pay higher prices. And therefore, we can reduce our exposure without taking additional losses.  

I don't think, it doesn't signal what we're doing one way or the other. We are keeping Latin America, we are going forward, if you will in Argentina and Brazil, and you've heard Ken talk about that, so this doesn't in any way change that view.  

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: The next question is from Tom McCandless with Deutsche Bank Securities.  

TOM MCCANDLESS, CFA, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES: Hi, good morning Jim and Mark. I have a couple of questions. One, could you share with us, and I apologize if you did and I missed it, the duration of the held for sale account?  

JIM HANCE: I didn't share it with you, would be happy to. It is, hang on just a second. It is 4.49 at the end of March. Okay?  

TOM MCCANDLESS, CFA: Yep. The next question, if I could, please, revolves around the pace of share buy backs. I know you've got a 90 million share reload in your program, and recall that as you mentioned there was quite a bit of acceleration in the fourth quarter. What should we anticipate is a normal pace, is it going to be steady, are you going to do an accelerated derivative transaction in the second quarter? How should we think about that?  

JIM HANCE: Right now we're contemplating a fairly steady normal pace. It would move around some if we get large option exercises or some other changes.  

We have been able to take advantage of what we view to be very low prices in our stock, so that has helped us in the economic modeling that we originally did on Fleet, so we'll continue to do that. It will move around some, based on the capital question I got earlier, which will move it some by quarter. So it won't be real even but we're going try and do it as even as possible going forward.  

TOM MCCANDLESS, CFA: Okay. The next question I have is, the cost savings figures that you've outlined for us today, did they include or exclude the new cost of rolling out the model bank in the northeast?  

JIM HANCE: Well, the cost savings numbers implicitly have it in there because it's in our ongoing cost, but where the model bank rollout cost primarily is, is in the restructuring charge. In other words, the cost to maintain it is in the net expense number, if you will, which is after the expense saves, but the cost to put it in is in the $200 million per quarter average that I gave you going forward for the next four or so quarters in terms of restructuring charges. Because that is a P&L charge. That is not a purchase accounting charge.  

TOM MCCANDLESS, CFA: One other small question. What is the level of unrealized venture capital gains still at the parent company level?  

JIM HANCE: What is the what?  

TOM MCCANDLESS, CFA: Level of realized principal equity investment gains at the parent company level.  

JIM HANCE: You know, I don't know what it is. I guess you can implicitly get it through other comprehensive income, when we adjust it, but I honestly don't know what it is. We'll look it up for you.  

TOM MCCANDLESS, CFA: One final fundamental question. Could you discuss with us sort of what's going on with your mid-market and small business customers in terms of their behavior as it's measured and viewed through the deposit base?  

JIM HANCE: Well, middle market we've seen, you know, fairly steady deposits. We would have expected it to start coming down some as some of the middle market companies invested, and that would be especially true when you see sort of the middle market loan growth which was 2% quarter-to-quarter.  

Small business has also been pretty steady. We've had some pretty decent deposit holds and deposit growth. Although as we've talked about in the past, as the economy continues to improve we would expect commercial deposits to reduce, you know, as people start spending some of their money.  

TOM MCCANDLESS, CFA: But it hasn't happened yet.  

JIM HANCE: That has not happened in droves yet.  

TOM MCCANDLESS, CFA: Thanks.  

JIM HANCE: Okay. Another question on the phone?  

OPERATOR: The next question comes from the site of David Stumpf with A.G. Edwards.  

DAVID STUMPF, CFA, A.G. EDWARDS AND SONS: Good morning, Jim. Couple of questions. One, just curious, are you going to report results after our consolidation net of the merger charges or will you report them with merger charges but give us the information to break it out, number one? And then number two, can you comment, give us a little detail on plans to minimize the revenue impact of this integration effort. I mean, it sounds as if we're talking about a fairly aggressive integration plan, sounds like you're running ahead of schedule. I guess my only concern would be, given such an aggressive plan, how do you ensure you're not going to impact revenue flows of the combined organization?  

JIM HANCE: Let me take the first one and I'll let Marc take the second one. The first one's a lot easier. We're going to report GAAP earnings, and GAAP earnings, David, includes restructuring charge. You'll see, though, like we've done in past combinations, is we'll have restructuring charge on a single line item so you'll be able to see exactly what the number is by quarter as part of non-interest expense.  

DAVID STUMPF, CFA: Okay. Great.  

MARK OKEN: Second question, yeah, I wouldn't really think that the, it may appear that the time line is aggressive, but as Jim said, it goes out through the end of 2005, and there's a lot of flexibility in that schedule. We do have individual projects scheduled by week, by month, on out into the end of the year, but that's a fluid schedule. The anchor projects are pretty much fixed because they affect all the rest of the projects, but the specific answer to the question is that first of all, we've got a number of things we monitor. First is capacity constraint, as Jim mentioned. We know what our capacity is to do the merger, and we match that against the projects we need to do, so that's one thing.  

But the most important thing is, is that we assess and monitor the effect of change on our customers of every project that we do. So we have a sense of what that is. We aggregate it, we look at it cumulatively, and finally we also do the same thing for our associates. So we're real focused on customer impact and on associate impact, and when we see, and we'll be able to see it that we're putting too much change on our customers and our associates, we'll change the time line for doing the projects so it's a fluid process, dynamic, and we'll change it in order to manage the risk with our customers and our associates.  

DAVID STUMPF, CFA: Okay.  

JIM HANCE: The real beauty here is we don't have overlap.  

DAVID STUMPF, CFA: Right.  

JIM HANCE: In other words, other than in the staff and corporate functions and things like that, and that is a real plus. I mean, we're not hell-bent here to have some major disposition or major closures of branches or something else where we have to do it very rapidly. So it really changes the thought process and the dynamic of how you go through it, and it changes it for the positive for the customer.  

DAVID STUMPF, CFA: Okay. In the original merger presentation you did cite some incremental revenue generation, obviously from cross-selling. Have you changed those assumptions at all?  

JIM HANCE: We have verified those assumptions, have them built in, and certain businesses have larger assumptions.  

DAVID STUMPF, CFA: Okay.  

JIM HANCE: Which is good. That's what they should be doing, right? But importantly, all the businesses have reaffirmed that their original growth rates, okay, are intact. And that's particularly important.  

In other words, they're not telling us that they want us to back off on those growth rates because they're going to be in transition or in combination or something else. And that is extremely important when you look at what the two companies' growth rates internally were going forward.  

DAVID STUMPF, CFA: Okay. That's very helpful. Thanks, Jim, thanks, Marc.  

JIM HANCE: Anything else?  

OPERATOR: We'll move next to Lori Appelbaum of Goldman Sachs.  

LORI APPLEBAUM, GOLDMAN SACHS: Jim you mentioned that the balance sheet is under-invested in terms of interest rate instruments, and that lower rates clearly would be painful to net interest income. Could you quantify how beneficial higher rates are, and how much higher would rates have to move until it's not beneficial?  

JIM HANCE: Ooh, I would love to see them go considerably higher. I don't know where ceiling is we'd have to do some work on that. But if you think about sort of past history here and kind of what happens to deposits as rates start to go up, we've got a ways to go here before, in my mind, we hit our sweet spot in terms of rates, and then as they continue to go up through that you're going to have the whole business cycle short of shift again and we'll reposition. But right now we would think a couple hundred basis points up would be fine with us, actually expect that kind of a number or higher by the end of '05, and then we'll sort of reassess it, Lori. Should be good for your business, too, incidentally. Okay? Gone, yeah. Let's do one more from the phone.  

OPERATOR: Okay. We'll move next to the site of James Mitchell with Buckingham Research.  

JAMES MITCHELL, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Yeah, hi, just one quick follow-up on rates, and specifically in terms of being leveraged to higher rates, are you benefiting from the higher long-term rates that we're seeing now or do you really primarily need to see short-term rates go up to benefit?  

JIM HANCE: Right now we're benefiting currently from the higher long-term rates, okay?  

JAMES MITCHELL: Okay.  

JIM HANCE: The real benefit of the business is when short-term rates go up.  

JAMES MITCHELL: So you get a modest benefit from long-term rates but more benefit from short-term rates going up?  

JIM HANCE: Precisely. Because you end up with a whole different business activity mix and so many of the consumer loans reprice off the short-term rates.  

JAMES MITCHELL: No, right, correct. Okay. Great, thanks.  

JIM HANCE: Let's go back to the room here. Thank you.  

STEVE: What happens if you get short-term rates going up but no commercial loan demand?  

JIM HANCE: That would be a problem. In other words, I think it's unlikely to happen, Steve. I mean, what we've seen, if you think about the last couple of years, we've seen huge refinancing demand, huge. A lot of it has gone into the capital markets. We have not seen much traditional debt demand, especially in the large corporate area. We've seen a lot of small to medium-sized businesses sort of redo their credit line but not draw them down. All right?  

Remember, we talked last year about the whopping amount of activity we had in sort of redoing credit lines. What you normally would see is, and I don't see how it doesn't happen, is that the economy accelerates, and as the business accelerates, they will draw down those lines. All right? And they will start doing something with that. That is good for us. Before it overheats or gets too high or rates get too high and we have the whole cycle again, under the next CFO.  

But, I mean, you really, we think it unlikely to have that, and especially when you look at our market shares and our positioning across the country, I mean, it is just superb market share and positioning.  

STEVE: If I can follow up on what about the other side, the consumer, to what extent would rising rates have an impact on the housing market and mortgages, and do you worry about this housing bubble concern that's out there? Have you done anything on like appraisals or, you know --.  

JIM HANCE: That's a great question. Clearly the higher rates and we're starting to see it already, slow down the mortgage business, and it's eating into our mortgage business revenues.  

We will be less affected than some, again because we don't do correspondent mortgages and so much of our business is our own customer-related, or franchise-related, or whatever, and we'll get a larger proportion of what I call new mortgage buyers as opposed to but it will be less. We think it will be less and we'll scale back accordingly.  

On the credit card side, interestingly it probably accelerates until you get into that troubled period where losses start to go up, or bankruptcies or something else. So we think on balance, we'll be better off even though we do know that some of the current volumes will drop on the mortgage side.  

On the appraisal side, great point. We have really been monitoring carefully as have, I'm sure, others, what the cash-out kind of numbers are and what's happening on the real estate side and how that sort of goes. I think it could be logical that real estate prices could drop some, some markets, on the homeowners side if rates sky rocket up and you stop some volume issues.  

But by and large there still is quite a bit of what I call free equity in the mortgage market business. And all the statistics show that. You also have, as a sort of corollary, continued improvement in disposable income and jobs and everything else, so on net, you're sort of better off, if you will, until it over inflates.  

Now, the CPI number this morning was big, right, and I'm sure the financial stocks are getting killed again this morning, but I think it's important for investors to understand the difference between most major big financial institutions and the way they're positioned on interest rates versus the 9,000 community banks out there that are not positioned and don't have the opportunity to position themselves as well. Big difference, in terms of impact. You're going to continue to see a separation, I think, as the interest rates go up.  

More questions? Okay. Great. Thank you very much. Look forward to listening to you all next quarter.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040428e04e0008g
  


 HD
 Q4  2003  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,859 words
   PD
15 January 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day. All site are now on the conference line. I would now like to introduce your moderator, Kevin Stitt.  

KEVIN STITT, INVESTOR RELATIONS EXECUTOR, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. This is Kevin Stitt, Investor Relations Executor.  

   TD
Before Jim Hance, our Chief Financial Officer, begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial condition, results, and expectations, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.  

These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures in the financial services industry, or legislative and regulatory changes that may impact our businesses. For additional factors, please see our press release in SEC documents.  

Let me turn the meeting over to Jim Hance.  

JAMES HANCE, JR., VICE CHAIRMAN, CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning everyone. Thanks for braving the elements, and thanks for your interest. And a belated Happy New Year to you. By the way, who ever heard of announcing a major bank deal on a Thursday? I mean, I can't remember that ever happening.  

My remarks will cover two main areas this morning. First, a summary of the results for the fourth quarter with some elaboration for the full year, and second, and importantly, a summary of our outlook for 2004.  

As always at this time, I would like to recognize the efforts of our associates at Bank of America in consistently meeting many of the goals that we've laid out for them over the past couple of years. 2003 was another challenging year for us and our associates, and they clearly achieved not just record financial results, but established momentum for continued success of our company.  

This momentum was evident throughout 2003 in rising customer satisfaction scores, growth in retail products sold, including checking accounts, savings accounts, and credit cards, increasing new business in our commercial banking segment, and greater market share in investment banking.  

Diluted earnings per share for the full year grew 21% to $7.13. Net income was 10 billion, 800 million dollars, up 17% from a year ago. We had return on equity of 22%, and all of this was driven  

by revenue growth of 10% and significantly improved credit quality. The consensus estimate for 2003 at this time last year was approximately $6.20 per diluted share on income of $9.7 billion.  

These earnings also provided cash flow, allowing us to return approximately $10 billion in capital to shareholders in 2003 in the form of dividends and net share repurchases. So thanks to all of our associates for getting the job done once again.  

Reported earnings in the fourth quarter were $1.83 per diluted share, or $2.7 billion. That's an increase of 8% versus the year ago, but down from $1.92 earned in the third quarter. As usual, the fourth quarter was quite eventful. But underlying all the noise was superb performance in several of our core businesses, which included retail banking, card services, commercial banking, investment banking, and asset management.  

Total revenue in the quarter increased 9% from the fourth quarter a year ago, driven by increases in almost every revenue line item; but decreased 1% from third quarter levels, due to the drop-off in mortgage activity, including lower whole loan sales.  

Overall expense rose 4%, or $212 million from the third quarter levels, due mainly to higher employee benefit costs and higher legal and consulting expense. In the fourth quarter, the tax rate benefited from adjustments related to our normal tax accrual review and to tax refunds.  

Average loans grew from the third quarter levels, driven by increases in all the major consumer loan categories; and importantly, an increase in middle market commercial lending. Large corporate and the foreign loan levels continued to drop.  

Average core domestic deposits are up 1% in the third quarter and $34 billion, or 10% from a year ago. Growth in consumer and commercial deposits in the third quarter were offset somewhat by lower mortgage escrow deposits.  

Total credit quality continued to improve, even with the impact of one large bankruptcy. Total commercial net charge-offs were down 35% to $178 million in the third quarter and improved more than $500 million verse a year ago. Commercial charge-off ratio in the fourth quarter was the lowest in three years. Overall NPA levels were the lowest since the end of 1998, dropping 17% the from third quarter levels, and down 43% from a year ago.  

Criticized exposure was down 16% from the third quarter levels and 41% from the end of last year. Provision for credit losses during the quarter was $583 million versus total net charge-offs of $725 million. The preliminary tier 1 ratio closed the year at 7.85%; that was down from third quarter levels due to the repurchase of about 56 million shares in the quarter, for a net reduction in the quarter of about 48 million shares.  

This brings total repurchases for the year to 129 million shares, or 60 million net of options exercised. Now before we talk about individual businesses, let's discuss net interest income in yields. In the fourth quarter on an FTE basis, net interest income of $5.75 billion rose $268 million or 5% from the third quarter.  

Driving this increase in net interest income were the impact of -- excuse me, of interest rates, higher asset liability management portfolio levels, and higher levels of consumer loans, offset, of course, by lower mortgage warehouse levels.  

During the quarter, the net interest yield improved by 17 basis points. We took advantage of the volatility in interest rates to position the balance sheet for rising rates in the long end of the curve. Also helping the margin was an improved mix in the loan portfolio with the growth in consumer loans.  

During this quarter, we generated 139 million in security gains, and that compared to 233 million in the third quarter and 304 a year ago.  

Now let me say a few words about the results of our individual businesses. As it has all year, the Consumer Commercial Bank continues to be the consistent driver of earnings. CCB earned $1.9 billion, or 70% of the corporation's earnings in the quarter, and they had a return on equity of 34%. Versus one year ago, their earnings increased 11% on a revenue growth of 10%.  

On a full-year basis, Consumer Commercial Bank earned $7.5 billion and had a return on equity of 37%, versus the third quarter, CCB earnings were down slightly to the lower mortgage activity. But all year long, we have had success in growing checking accounts.  

In the fourth quarter alone, net new checking accounts increased 220,000, bringing the year to date additions to approximately 1.2 million net new checking accounts. Further, net new savings accounts opened in the quarter were 128,000, for total openings in all of 2003 of 640,000 net new savings accounts. That compares to net closures in 2002 of 265,000.  

The number of active online bank customers hit 7.2 million in the quarter, which represents a growth of 52% for the year and a penetration rate of about 44% of our households with DDA accounts. And importantly, our active bill pay customers has grown 84% in 2003, to the 3.2 million dollar level, with bill pays of nearly $14 billion in the fourth quarter alone.  

The increase in checking accounts is driven by greater customer satisfaction, by banking center productivity, by focused marketing, and new products.  

Customer satisfaction, as defined by the top two box scores you've heard us talk about, continue to growth in the fourth quarter, and broke through the 50% level, representing full-year growth of customer satisfaction of 8%.  

Fee income in the Consumer and Commercial Bank decreased 17% over the third quarter results, but still increased 8% from results a year ago. Service charges rose 1% from the third quarter and 4% from last year.  

Card income increased 3% from the third quarter and 11% from last year, primarily reflecting higher interchange fees and other fee income from both debit and credit cards.  

If you look at the total revenue on a managed basis, including net interest income, card services revenue increased 20% for the year to the $6 billion level, from results in the prior year. Mortgage banking income decreased significantly from results in the third quarter, due to lower levels of refinance production.  

However, it was still up 39% from a year ago, just due to greater production flow and higher margins. For the year, first mortgage originations were up 48% to $131 billion, as we continue to focus on the direct to the customer business.  

In the fourth quarter, first mortgage originations were $18.4 billion, versus $39.5 billion in the third quarter. Earlier this year, as you know, we stepped up our efforts in home equity lending and had growth and outstanding balances in the fourth quarter of $1.2 billion. This renewed focus should help offset the expected decline in the first mortgage business in 2004.  

Early last year, we stated that we were beginning to see the signs of increased commercial middle market loan growth activity. After growth in both the first and the second quarters, you remember that we saw it slow considerably in the third quarter.  

However, commercial growth renewed itself in the fourth quarter, increasing 1% on average balances and almost 3% on period end balances from the third quarter levels. For the full year, commercial loan levels were up 4% compared to the end of 2002.  

Prior to 2003, the last quarter that we experienced actual commercial growth was the third quarter of 2000. Due to what we saw in the fourth quarter, we believe 2004 will be a continuation of increased activity, and we are looking for middle market loan growth in 2004 of close to 6%.  

Credit quality cost for the Consumer and Commercial Bank as a whole were up slightly from the third quarter, reflecting the growth in our credit card portfolio. Net charge-offs in the Commercial Bank decreased, however, $13 million, to $35 million, or about 27% from the third quarter. And the charge-offs are down 58% from results a year ago.  

The net charge-off ratio was 24 basis points during this quarter. That compares to 34 basis points in the third quarter and 58 basis points in the fourth quarter a year ago. Nonperforming loans in the commercial bank are down 12% from last year to $563 million, and they're down 27% from a year ago.  

Now, the managed consumer credit card portfolio continues to meet expectations and is performing well. The managed consumer credit card loss ratio at 5.14%, or roughly $451 million, was the lowest ratio all year, and slightly above results a year ago.  

The 30 and the 90-day delinquency rates moved up from the third quarter, and that's typical because of seasonality; but they clearly remain in line with levels from a year ago. Excluding credit card and the Commercial Bank, remaining quarterly charge-offs with NCCB decreased 19% year-over-year.  

Now, I'll discuss our credit quality outlook in a couple of minutes, but we continue to believe both the consumer and the middle market areas will remain stable in 2004. Turning to the Global Corporate and Investment Bank, earnings in the fourth quarter increased more than $60 million from the third quarter, due primarily to continued improvement in asset quality and lower expenses offset by lower trading revenue.  

Investment banking fees themselves rose 9% to the $435 million level from the third quarter. Leading the increase was advisory services, moving up 52% to $76 million.  

Securities underwriting remained strong at $232 million in the fourth quarter versus $238 million in the third quarter, with equity underwriting showing the strongest improvement with a growth of 33% from third quarter levels related to a resurgence in capital market activity.  

Both high-grade and high-yield fees also rose, with market liquidity and client demand still evident. Offsetting these increases was a drop in revenues from other securities underwriting. And that is mainly asset-backed transactions. And that drop was about 51%. Syndication fees increased 8% to $111 million.  

On a full-year basis, investment banking fees of $1.7 billion increased 13% from results in 2002. We had a 34% increase in securities underwriting to just under $1 billion, and that more than offset a 21% decrease in advisory fees to the $228 million level. And syndications were relatively flat.  

Total trading related revenue for the fourth quarter was $542 million, and that was a decrease of $146 million from the third quarter.  

Foreign exchange revenue was up 15% to $153 million from the third quarter, but revenue from interest rate contracts and fixed income were down a combined $175 million, due partly to the impact of a large bankruptcy, which I'll discuss in a minute. For the year, total trading related revenue of $2.8 billion was consistent with last year.  

But if you exclude the impact of credit default swaps used to hedge our portfolio, trading related revenue increased 15% over 2002. Now, as far as credit quality goes for the Global Corporate and Investment Bank, net charge-offs decreased $94 million, or 55%, from the third quarter level.  

The net charge-off ratio dropped to 70 basis points from 146 in the third quarter to -- and it's down 274 basis points from the fourth quarter a year ago, even though the book continues to decline. If you exclude the impact of one large bankruptcy, which was Parmalat and GCIB, GCIB actually had net recoveries for the fourth quarter.  

Now let's talk about Parmalat for a minute. At year end, our exposure to Parmalat involved both loan and derivative exposures and totaled $274 million. And this is how we get there. Direct loans and letters of credit of $244 million, of which 105 of that supported by credit insurance and carried as nonperforming.  

121 of that is noncash collaterallized or credit insured, also carried as nonperforming, and has a specific reserve against it of $60 million. On top of both of those, we have an $18 million undrawn letter of credit that is secured by cash.  

In addition, we have a remaining derivative exposure of $30 million. Now in the fourth quarter, we took the following actions on Parmalat.  

We exercised our contractual rights under various credit agreements to repay 167 million of loans collaterallized by cash, retaining that 18 million I mentioned of cash collateral to secure an undrawn letter of credit.  

We also charged off $114 million, or roughly 49% of our direct loans, that were noncash collaterallized, or credit insured. And as I mentioned, we established a $60 million reserve against the remaining balance of the loan, or if you will, roughly half of that remaining balance.  

We also marked down the value of our derivative exposure by 75%, or a $92 million write-down, and that left us with the $30 million remaining derivative.  

Now, unfortunately this bankruptcy will probably take a long time to be resolved, but we believe we are sufficiently positioned to deal with any material credit impact down the road.  

Excluding the Parmalat impact, credit quality results for the quarter are probably as good as it gets. Total large corporate non assets decreased $450 million, and that's even with the add of Parmalat, and that decrease is about 26% from the third quarter to roughly the $1.3 billion level.  

That was driven by improvements and by sales during the quarter of $340 million. Some of the reduction in NPA's is also a movement of non-performers to loans held for sale that have been marked to anticipated sales price.  

These loans either have existing sales against them or expected to move in a very short period. Since the end of last year, GCIB nonperformers are down $1.7 billion, or 57%.  

This continued improvement in the large corporate funded and unfunded lending commitments drove the release of $137 million in credit reserves this quarter.  

Also included in the results for GCIB this quarter was an equity investment gain of $30 million relating to securities sold that were received in satisfaction of debt that had been previously charged off.  

Loans and leases in GCIB continued to decrease, mainly due to the resolution of problem credits, and ended the quarter at $41 billion -- and that's down another $3 billion from the third quarter.  

Now, turning to our third core business segment of asset management, both revenue and earnings increased significantly from the third quarter and from the fourth quarter a year ago, due to an equity investment gain of $183 million. And that was related as securities sold that were received in satisfaction of debt that had been previously charged off in 2002.  

In addition to the equity investment gain in asset management, investment and brokerage service fees were up 7% for the quarter. This increase was due to higher brokerage fees, net sales, and market appreciation.  

Asset management exceeded its goal of increasing financial advisors 20% this year, and ended the year with 1150 financial advisors. Assets under management increased 6% to $336 billion from third quarter levels. Equities increased 12%, due to improved market conditions and net sales.  

For the full year, assets under management finished the year up 8%, as the decrease in money market assets was more than offset by a 41% increase in equities, led, of course, by growth in the Marsico group. Equity mutual funds, excluding the Marsico family of funds, was up almost 29% since the end of 2002.  

Now, our fourth and final business segment is equity investments. Principal investing, as you know, drives much of the activity in this segment. In principal investing, cash gains and fair value adjustments were approximately $132 million in the quarter, offset by impairments of $153 million.  

If you look at all of 2003, impairments totaled $438 million, and that compared to $708 for all of 2002. Now let me spend the rest of my time discussing our outlook for 2004. I think this is probably the first year out of four where we actually feel positive about the economy in the short term, rather than depending on an up-turn in the second half of the year.  

For all of 2004, we are forecasting GDP growth to be around 3.5%. We believe unemployment levels have improved in the current 5.7% level. And in our view, inflation seems to be well under control.  

We don't see any pressure on the fed to raise rates until sometime in the second half of the year, at the earliest. For Bank of America before the merger with fleet, we are looking for loan growth in 2004 to be the -- in the high single digits, as consumer lending and a recovery in commercial markets combines with some pickup in large corporate loans.  

Consumer lending growth will continue to leverage the banking center network, focusing on mortgages, home equity loans, and credit cards. We believe small business lending will increase along with middle market lending. We also believe the total corporate loan portfolio at year-end 2003 is about as low as we want it to be going forward.  

Other earning assets should increase from year-end levels, as trading assets are expected to move higher as we take on more institutional customer flow in the matched book. Asset liability management, as always, will create some volatility in both our balance sheet levels and our securities gains and losses, as we continually balance between the management of interest rate risk and economic reward in response to ever-changing market conditions.  

With high single digit loan growth and the benefit of balance sheet position we took in the second half of last year, we are looking for net interest income to be up at least 6% from the results in 2003. Of which the contribution from the trading book is expected to be flat.  

The balance sheet is currently positioned to benefit from rising rates in the long end, with short-term rates stable.  

However, if you look at a parallel shift of a rate change of 100 basis points, plus or minus, over 12 months, the impact on net interest income is approximately 1% either way. So as you can see, for parallel shifts, we're positioned relatively neutral.  

Now, on the fee side, we are looking for continued positive trends in our consumer and commercial businesses in the areas of service charges and card income, offset by lower mortgage banking income.  

Mortgage banking income will be down from 2003 results, as we move from a refi to a purchase market. But we expect to garner market share from increased distribution, increased advertising, and sales productivity.  

In addition, as I mentioned earlier, we are directing increased attention to home equity lending, which should grow as rates start to rise.  

Although market estimates have mortgage originations for the industry contracting about 50%, we feel our actions should offset some of this decrease and result in a smaller drop in mortgage banking income for a year to year of approximately 30 to 35% reduction.  

Asset management is expected to show double-digit increases in fee revenue, given improved markets, along with increased leverage from expanded distribution that we have been adding over the past couple of years. In global and investment -- global corporate and investment banking -- we are looking for continued strength in investment banking, along with better results in trading with an anticipated reduction in the drag from negative mark to market credit default swaps in 2003 being essentially gone.  

Investment banking should be helped by improving -- by an improving economy and an improving equity market. This economic environment should have a positive impact on syndicated lending, as well as M&A activity.  

Although overall fixed debt issuance will slow, we are targeting a pickup in our market share. Equity investment should finally improve in 2004, after clearly several difficult years. The improvement will reflect a combination of higher gains and lower impairments.  

So to sum it up, we expect fee revenue growth for Bank of America before fleet to be about 6% for 2004. This number includes lower fee revenue for mortgage banking and lower loan sales. Excluding those categories, fee income growth would be closer to the mid-teens.  

This improvement is driven by the economic recovery, as well as by momentum established over the past several years. On the expense front, we will continue to invest resources in those businesses that will produce long-term and profitable revenue growth; but having said that, expense growth will correlate with revenue growth, and we are targeting an operating leverage of 3%.  

Using these assumptions, the efficiency ratio for 2004 should be somewhere between 50 and 51%.  

Now the estimated tax rate this year, before FTE adjustment, should be about 32.5%; and with the adjustments, for those of you that model on an FTE basis, the rate is 35%. Turning to credit quality, we feel comfortable about the stability of the consumer, small business, and middle market areas.  

However, higher managed credit card receivables, while benefiting net interest income and fee revenue, will drive an increase in managed consumer credit card net charge-offs of about $260 million. This is also the first time since 2000 that we actually feel positive about the corporate book going forward.  

Consequently, large corporate charge-offs should improve from 2003's results. However, we do remain vigilant about large corporate exposure, and would move quickly to address sudden problems as they arise.  

I don't have to remind you of event risk that continues to occur, with Parmalat, of course, being the most recent example. With higher consumer net charge-offs from credit card growth more than offsetting the reduction in commercial net charge-offs, we are targeting a 2004 provision expense to be between 3.1 and $3.3 billion.  

Nonperforming asset levels should continue to come down as the year progresses, but at a more modest rate than in 2003. I also want to point out a reclassification that we made to our year-end 2003 balance sheet related to reserves for unfunded lending commitments.  

We reclassified $416 million of reserves associated with our unfunding lending commitments out of the allowance for credit losses and into other liabilities. Prior to this quarter, we included those reserves in our allowance for credit losses.  

If you look at our disclosure in the financial tables, you can see the new format. At the end of the year, under the allowance breakdown, you can see that we have $6.2 billion in reserves for outstanding loans and leases, and another $416 million associated with unfunding lending commitments.  

Now, addressing capital trends for 2004, we would expect to keep our tier 1 ratio in excess of 7.5%, which will provide plenty of room to pay an attractive dividend and to repurchase shares. Now, all of these forward-looking statements pertain to Bank of America before the impact of fleet.  

If you look at the guidance provided by Bob Lamb earlier this morning and compare to the my remarks, you will see that our outlooks for 2004 are somewhat similar.  

Core revenue growth of approximately 6%, with a possibility of higher revenue growth in Latin America. And we expect expense growth between this, between 3 and 4%. Improved credit quality, although higher -- excuse me.  

Improved credit quality, although higher credit card charge-offs from higher outstanding outstandings will mask some of the improvement. And we expect sufficient cash flow to generate a strong dividend and continued share repurchases.  

Now, our goal is to close the proposed merge we are fleet early in April. The earlier the closing, the faster we can implement initiatives that will have an impact on the second half of 2004 and the full year of 2005.  

Since our announcement on October 27th, we have filed an S-4 and an amendment, updating the impact of the purchase accounting adjustments as if the merger had been effective on January 1, 2002.  

These new adjustments now estimated to be a negative $191 million after tax for the first 12 months versus what was a negative $330 million used in our initial presentation. Our estimates for cost efficiencies and synergies hasn't changed from the October presentation and remain roughly at 250 million and 110 million for 2004.  

For 2005, as you know, we have estimated cost savings to total approximately $1.1 billion on an after-tax basis. And they are as follows: $650 million from overlapping business infrastructure and redundant processes, $100 million from corporate staff functions, $100 million from lower marketing costs, $175 million from vendor leverage, and $75 million from lower occupancy costs.  

The current consensus for 2004 for the combined Bank of America is approximately $7.12 on a reported basis, excluding any merger related charge. This consensus probably has the assumption that the merger closes at the end of June, which was the closing date used at the merger announcement.  

Closing in early April, which is our goal, versus June, results in an additional quarter of earnings from fleet, but is more than offset by an additional quarter of purchase accounting adjustments and higher average shares outstanding.  

However, offsetting some of this impact will be the fact that the original annual adjustment for purchase accounting has been lowered. In addition, the individual outlooks for 2004 for both fleet and Bank of America that you heard today are more optimistic than many of the estimates that existed in late October.  

In short, we think that given our combined outlooks, the positives more than offset the negatives, so we feel confident in our ability in meeting the current consensus of $7.12 for 2004. In fact, I would believe we would exceed that current consensus. With both our guidance and the consensus excludes the impact of any merger-related charges in 2004.  

Our guidance also excludes any assumption for settlement costs, including fines associated with any of the litigation and regulatory investigations in which we are currently involved. As the year proceeds, we will update you with any additional changes in our assumptions for 2004 if they're material.  

Now, I really apologize for the amount of detail this morning, but as we know, there's always a demand for more information rather than less.  

So, having said that let me now turn to what your questions are. Thank you for your attention. Mike? [INAUDIBLE]  

MIKE, UNSTATED: [INAUDIBLE] $183 million equity investment gain, and you also had a another $30 million equity investment gain. Should we consider those one-time? What's the run rate for those items? And let's start with that.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: You have to --.  

MIKE: While you're there, Parmalat, similar to that, is considered one-time.  

I'm just trying to get a core number here.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: You're going to have to decide what you want to do with them. We've been having some recoveries. The two equity investment gains are essentially recoveries in the form of equity as opposed to reduced charge-offs, right. And that's not unusual when you see an economic pickup.  

In terms of Parmalat, I hope it's one-time. I mean, how's that? I mean, I wouldn't expect to see frauds this magnitude every quarter, although we have seen a lot of them in the last couple of years, so you have to decide what you want to do with them.  

MIKE: And venture capital, what do you see as a run rate?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Well, Venture capital has been negative all year and all of last year and a chunk of 2001. We think that will turn, and the reason it will turn is primarily no impairments, or lower impairments.  

What we're waiting for is to see a pickup in sort of liquidity events or cash gains, if you will. That has been slow. We are seeing, though, consistently, Mike, in our portfolio, increases of sort of net asset value.  

In other words, we're seeing the net-asset value rise kind of monthly, and I view that to be a very good sign of what will be a pickup in sort of activity and in cash gains, and therefore, some P&L activity. So we're looking for a positive year. In other words, we've been having losses. We're looking for a positive year for '04.  

MIKE: Similar to the fourth quarter?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Well, the fourth quarter was still negative.  

Fourth quarter in equity investments was still a loss, so we're looking for it to turn into the black.  

MIKE: And lastly, what percentage of your revenues for last year were helped by derivative or swap-relate revenues?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Say that again.  

MIKE: What percentage of your spread revenues, your lending revenues, had contribution from derivatives or swap-related revenue?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: They were negative last year.  

The credit derivative write-downs were negative last year, starting from about, I guess, second quarter forward. We actually had losses. Now, that showed up in trading revenue.  

Now, we have an active business, as you know, of doing interest rate protection products and selling derivatives, and that also is in trading revenues. So the two netted together, if you will, a 2.8 billion, which was relatively flat with the year before, because of the decrease from credit derivatives.  

Without that, the revenues would have been up 15%, as I mentioned. So this year, we're expecting an increase in trading revenues just to stay flat. Did I say that clearly? Yeah, you're shaking your head. Good.  

Clarence?  

CLARENCE, UNSTATED: Bringing the two companies together, I was just wondering whether there were any accounting issues that we should be concerned with, especially when it concerns the write-offs in terms of methodology, loan losses, and reserves.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yeah, good question.  

Everybody hear it? I assume they did. What are we seeing in terms of bringing the two companies together. Transition is going very well, we're ahead of where we expected to be.  

We're zeroing in on where all the cost savings are and who's responsible for them. We're zeroing in on timetables. You've already seen management announcements down two levels. We're set to do the remaining announcements by the end of February, so we're doing really well.  

In terms of surprises, we have not seen any that have been negative. In the prospectus, in the amended prospectus that you can get right now, you will see all adjustments that we think are there for things like write-downs or adjustments or write-ups.  

In terms of what we're seeing there, and they're very minor. I mean, you see some adjustments for long-dated loans, you see adjustments for long-dated liabilities, you see some small adjustments for property and equipment, you see some things like that.  

They're already all in the pro forma on an estimated basis.  

CLARENCE: Okay. In terms of the corporate governance issues, the [INAUDIBLE] issues you're having right now with [INAUDIBLE] the others, are you and fleet work separately to resolve those issues? Are you looking at it together on a longer term basis in terms of how you're looking at these things going forward into the future? And will these issues be resolved before the merger is completed, so far as you see them?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: I would say we each have our own investigations going on regarding mutual funds, primarily.  

And we're working on those independently. As we look at putting the two companies together, and what we're going to do in the asset management business and the mutual fund business, as we put the two companies together, we're looking at new processes and procedures that will be for the combined company and cover all governance problems or issues that may have arisen in either one of us as we go forward.  

So in that effort we're working in a combined manner, but in terms of solving our own individual problems, we're doing it separately, and we would love to solve them tomorrow morning. So we're trying to resolve them as quickly as we can. And it's not up to us what the timetable of that is. Question.  

CLARENCE: Jim, I wondered -- on a follow-up question, concerning the merger, the position in Latin America you mentioned, you saw some improvement. I seem to recall that fleet has some presence in Argentina and Brazil, and the meeting in Mexico recently, the Latin Americans were not buying the White House line on policy.  

So where do you -- maybe you can flesh that out a little bit on the Latin America presentation.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yeah, Bob in his comments this morning, I thought, did a great job in talking about Latin America. And as I remember what he said, he said in the fourth quarter they had earnings in both Argentina and Brazil, I think I got that right, and so they're in the black, and that's good.  

They also think they're going to see a turnaround, if you will, in '04, and, therefore, that's why we think we're going to see a little higher growth rate in Latin America than for the company as a whole. So all that looks particularly positive.  

He also mentioned, as you know, they're taking a number of steps to close branches in Argentina and sort of downsize it, so all that looks very positive. We have been talking to him in the transition discussions about Latin America, about the future of Latin America and the scale of Latin America and all that's going very well. There have been no decisions of -- other than continue to do what they're doing in Latin America, and that's positive.  

Yeah. Ron.  

RONALD, UNSTATED: Yeah, thanks. I have a couple questions on credit. You went pretty fast on Parmalat. I wasn't sure I got what all the write-office were. Actually, as I added up my notes I got 266 million, but I don't think that was right.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Let me flesh it out for you here.  

The actual P&L piece directly was charge-offs of $114 million against loans, and $92 million write-down of a derivative. In addition, we have reserves of $60 million. Now, that is -- that had some P&L impact but not a full 60 because it interaction with the other reserve levels that we have. Okay?  

RONALD: Okay.  

So you wrote down, then, 206 out of 274? The 114 plus the 2 is 206.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yes, that's right.  

RONALD: And the 274 was the total exposure? Did I write that down wrong?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: 274 is what's left, okay.  

274 is what's left -- let me see if I can break it down for you here. You're confusing me here. Let me think. 274 is what's level, 30 of it is the remaining derivative, okay, 244 is the remaining nonperforming loan, of which 105 is credit-insured, and the remaining amount is 50% reserve. How's that? Does that work?  

RONALD: Uh-huh.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Kevin says yes.  

I'm not going any further with that.  

RONALD: Yes. Okay. And then the other question was you said your guidance was 3.1 to 3.3 billion.  

Was that above provision for '04?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yes.  

RONALD: And that's managed?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yes.  

RONALD: Okay, so that's not really a significant change in dollar terms. I think last year's managed --.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: I think we're at 2 -- yeah, about the same.  

RONALD: Because it was 2.8 plus a 500 or so, so it's not a significant change in actual dollars.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Mix is a little different.  

RONALD: Yes, you mentioned that. Okay. Thank you.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Steve?  

STEVE, UNSTATED: Thank you. Where am I here?  

Other, general operating expenses in 2003 versus 2002 for the full year were just up modestly. How much was the addition, if you can, in legal reserves or provisions in 2003 -- how much was the increase over 2002?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: I don't know. We can get it for you. It would be substantial.  

STEVE: It would be?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yeah, because we've settled a lot of cases, and/or put aside reserves for a lot of cases, and that's where it goes.  

It goes through that line item, as did the mutual fund reserve in the third quarter. We'll have to add it together for you. I don't know what it is. We'll add it together for you.  

STEVE: All right. Thanks.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Telephone call ?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ruchi Madan with Smith Barney, your line is open.  

RUCHI MADAN, SMITH BARNEY: I have several questions. Just cut me off whenever you want.  

First of all, just on your EPS guidance that you're confident it will exceed consensus, you mentioned several positives and negatives. Do you think you could just go through them again and give us a little more detail; for instance, the earlier close, how much is the cost, is that a nickel, and then if you could just expand on some of the others, and you said you think on a core basis your guidance and fleet's guidance is better than people are anticipating.  

Can you tell us where you think it's better?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Sure. I'm not going to put earnings per share on each of these things, but let me see where to start here.  

Let's start with the core guidance. I think clearly both companies are doing better than the market anticipated in the third quarter, or the early fourth quarter when the transaction was announced, Ruchi. And you can see it sort of in our earnings numbers and in fleet's earnings numbers that were announced today.  

And that's in a broad area of categories, certainly revenues, certainly credit quality, certainly loan growth, and all the key items are moving well because of the view of the economy in 2004 and where interest rates are. So that's all very positive. Secondly, the -- I think the transition is moving quicker, I guess is a better way to say it.  

We anticipate closing quicker, we anticipate doing things together quicker, all of that is a plus in 2004 and certainly in 2005.  

In other words, the earlier we do it, the more we reduce the risk of 2005. All right, so that's all plus.  

The negative is -- oh, another plus, let me give you another plus -- is the purchase accounting adjustments are coming in net better than the original estimates. That's a plus.  

The negative, if you will, is the additional dilution, additional outstanding shares, whatever you want to call it, of a potential additional quarter in 2004 versus closing in June. In other words, so that's kind of a net negative, even though you pick up there earnings.  

And another positive, and I guess I should have mentioned In other words, so that's kind of a net negative, even though you pick up there earnings. And another positive, and I guess I should have mentioned this, I forgot about it, another positive is all the shares we repurchased in the fourth quarter.  

I mean, you kindly allowed us to purchase cheaper than we anticipated, and so we took advantage of that opportunity and purchased shares with a vengeance in the fourth quarter, and that makes a major, major impact versus our original estimate and the pace of those repurchases.  

So all of that is sort of positive, if you will, and leads us to comfort that the 712 is the -- the consensus $7.12 can be exceeded. We can't hear you.  

RUCHI MADAN: Can you hear me now?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: There you go.  

RUCHI MADAN: I know you don't want to give out EPS guidance, but maybe on some of these smaller items like the additional dilution and the purchase accounting adjustment, on a per-share basis, how much are those kinds of things?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: We're just not going to do that.  

We're not going to track little items by EPS either way.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. Let me ask a couple other questions, if I can.  

Can you comment on Alco's strategy at all? I know you had a lot of forward purchases in place. Are those still in place, and how much can we expect to come off?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: They are still in place. Forward purchases are still in place.  

I mentioned in my comments that we're poised relatively neutrally currently. Clearly, the steps we took sort of mid-year and earlier last year to be poised for higher rates has paid off dramatically.  

You can see that in higher net interest income in the fourth quarter and that will lead to higher net interest income in 2004, as I mentioned. We also continue to be very dynamic. I mean, we are not static.  

We're taking advantage of ups and downs in rates and moving in and out of the market and in and out of the securities and in and out of swaps constantly to try and increase our position. So you'll see us do that all year, and that will be of benefit to us.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. Just on your provision guidance, you're not assuming any reserve draw down in '04?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: We're not, although that's because we're not sure how to estimate it.  

As you saw, we've had a reserve draw down in both the third quarter and the fourth quarter.  

The fourth quarter I think would have been larger ex-Parmalat, and that's because of the significant improvement in criticized loans and in nonperforming loans, but we don't know what that's going to look like going forward in 2004, and we do expect a larger loan growth rate, if you will, in the commercial and corporate book, and we'll need reserves for that.  

So we have not estimated that.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. Also the 3.1 to 3.3, what is that on a reported basis?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: I don't know.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. I'll figure it out.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yeah.  

RUCHI MADAN: And I might have missed this, but did you tell us how much legal expenses you had in this quarter, you know, special stuff?  

Last quarter I think it was 175 or something.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Say that again, I'm sorry.  

RUCHI MADAN: Last quarter you had pretty high legal reserve accrual.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yeah, the total number is about the same. The components are agent different, but about the same.  

A little different reasons. Okay?  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. Thanks.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Let's go back to another call from the phones first here, then we'll come back, Mike. You got one, Randy?  

OPERATOR: Thank you.  

Thomas McCanlis from Deutsche Bank, your line is open.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Good morning.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Good morning, Tom.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: Just to tag on to the Alco, you mentioned some comments about taking advantage of rates and such.  

In prior quarters, Jim, I think you've been willing to discuss with us, in your commentary around the asset liability management activity, duration numbers, and I'm wondering how duration numbers changed from the end of September and the end of December -- then I have two other questions.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Okay.  

Duration on the available for sales securities, which, as you know, is the bulk of them, was 4.59 at the end of September and 4.48 at the end of December. Okay?  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: Okay. The second question has to do with trading revenues. I think you indicated that a combination of interest rates and fixed income related revenues declined 175 million, and that was only partially due to the bankruptcy that you mentioned.  

Can you discuss what other factors were also driving that number down and then give what you say the equity component of trading revenues were as well?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: We didn't have as good a trading quarter, period. Do we have the equity trading -- the equity piece? Tom, we'll have to get it for you. I don't think I have it.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: Okay.  

Then the last question, Jim, if I may, in several of the previous quarters, the miscellaneous other noninterest income has been tracking along at around 300 million, but it dropped pretty substantially in the fourth quarter. Specifically, 320 in the third quarter dropped to 186. Could you give us a little color on the nature of the drop?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Almost all whole loan sales, I think.  

I mean, what has been in that category sort of all year, Tom, has been whole loan sales from the mortgage business, and that dropped dramatically in the fourth quarter.  

THOMAS MCCANDLESS: Thanks, Jim.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Okay. Mike, question here? [INAUDIBLE]  

MIKE: Deposit growth has slowed, you mentioned partly due to mortgage escrow balances.  

What are you assuming for deposit growth this year, what changes are taking place? I guess money is flowing back into equity mutual funds, you have less refi activity. What do you expect, what's causing it? Thanks.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: We actually expect good deposit growth again in '04.  

We had a roughly 10% in '03, driven heavy by new checking accounts and just new activity, new savings accounts, as you saw. We would expect those trends to continue. We do think the escrow accounts fall. In other words, and we think some of commercial deposits may fall as the economy picks up.  

And so we're targeting 3, 4% kind of deposit growth pre fleet, if you will. And we expect to do well in New England as well. Steve, you had a question? Wait a second. Here he comes to the mic here  

STEVE: Your footprint sometimes overlaps with Bank One in a number of places. Do you -- Bank One will be able, according to Jamie, to deliver many more investment banking and corporate-type products and services into the marketplace than they had on their own.  

So obviously, you have those services as well, but I just wonder, this is just your gut feel in terms of the potential business that could flow towards the reinvigorated Bank One's investment banking capabilities versus your own.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Really have no way to get that. We do look forward to the disarray in Texas, though. Isn't that how it was put to me?  

I think you're going to see the overlap there give us some opportunities for sure. We've been developing that for a long time, in terms of coordinating our investment banking business with our middle market banking.  

You'll see that be developed even more in 2004 as we reconfigure and realign, based on the combination with fleet. So they have got a ways to go before they do that, and that gives us a great head start in that world. We look forward to their combination. Questions on the phone?  

OPERATOR: Nancy bush with NAB Research, please go ahead.  

NANCY BUSH (ph), NAB RESEARCJ: Good morning. I would just ask sort of a general question that involves Parmalat.  

I mean, I know this was a fraud, and fraud is impossible to predict, et cetera, et cetera, but when you sort of add that to the mutual fund matters and several other things that have cropped up in the past few quarters, is there a concern there about risk management, and what are you doing to the risk management processes to try to stop some of this, what seems like a spade of bad news?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Let me address Parmalat first and then sort of tackle the broader question here. I think, first of all, even though I belabored talking about Parmalat, I want you to though we're taking it very seriously.  

Once this fraud sort of came to light to us, which, as you know, was when somebody asked us about a deposit, we have done -- we have launched, if you will, a very extensive and exhaustive investigation on our own to find out where our money went, right? And to try and get some of it back. And what the extent of our relationship was with Parmalat.  

We also brought the matter immediately to the attention of the SEC and other authorities, of which there are a lot looking at this, and have been cooperating fully with them, and working, you know, with them all the way through this period.  

It's clear, still it's very early, and a lot of it is still coming out daily from investigations out of Italy, but so far we have seen no evidence of wrongdoing by any current or former employees of us, and if we -- if that changes, as we go further, then we'll take a lot of swift action on that.  

In terms of your broader question, we think we have excellent risk management processes. We also think we're very big in a lot of businesses. And we take each one of these examinations, if you will, or issues, as an opportunity to rethink what it is we're doing, to see if there's anything we could have done differently to avoid it other than not be in the business.  

And so we've been making changes, and you've seen that as we go through.  

We are very happy with our risk management process, but it is dynamic, and we will make changes because of Parmalat or because of mutual funds or because of whatever as we go forward, and we'll make changes with the combination with fleet. So it's not static.  

It is not something we take for granted, it is not something we stop focusing on, if you will, and all of these we use -- we view as learning opportunities for going forward, so that, either,, A, we don't have it again, or we don't put ourselves in the position of being there.  

Frauds are tough. Frauds are very different from process-type issues. And so we are re-asking ourselves the questions about how do you start finding frauds? Don't know. We, like everybody else in the room, and on the line, relied very much on audited financial statements and on rating agency reports. And they were duped as well as everybody else. So that's a tough one.  

But we are re-thinking that issue as we speak to see if there's something that we should see differently in these kind of processes where they hit. So we're constantly using them as learning experiences.  

NANCY BUSH (ph): If I may also ask -- apparently, there's been some change in heart or change in thinking about the installation of the model bank and to the fleet franchise.  

When do you expect that, you know, this decision is going to be made and, you know, what kind of incremental cost saves would we get as a result?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yeah, that's a great question. That decision will be made within a month, if not sooner.  

And to the extent it has an impact timewise or expense saves or initial costs, we'll talk about it. Right now we don't know what that is. We're going down a number of paths in trying to make that decision and seeing what the differences are, both plus and minus, and we're just not quite there yet. But within a month we will be, and we will be able to talk about it in the next quarter's discussion.  

NANCY BUSH (ph): Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you.  

Roger Sullivan with Putnam Investments, your line is open.  

ROGER SULLIVAN (ph), PUTNAM INVESTMENTS: Thank you. Jim?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Good morning, Roger.  

ROGER SULLIVAN (ph): First a tiny comment.  

Announcing a merger on Wednesday evening with a Thursday conference call in the middle of earnings really isn't any stranger than a Thursday evening announcement, or early Friday morning announcement on the day before Labor Day or the weekend of Labor Day weekend, so I thought I'd tweak you with that.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Touche. Thank you, Roger. Where are you working these days, Roger?  

ROGER SULLIVAN (ph): I'm still working, that's what counts. Anyway, I do have a bit of clarification on your guidance comments.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yeah.  

ROGER SULLIVAN (ph): In your thinking, do you regard core deposit intangibles as a merger-related charge or as an ongoing operating item?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: No, we have it as an ongoing operating item and that's why it's in that purchase accounting sort of net number that I talked about.  

ROGER SULLIVAN (ph): Okay.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: It's in there, and that's the net of all of that. And, of course, that's the biggest negative. The biggest positive, of course, is the adjustment on the debt side.  

ROGER SULLIVAN (ph): All right. Just to clarify it. Thank you.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Sure.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. David Hilder with Bear Stearns, your line is open.  

DAVID HILDER, BEAR STEARNS: Thanks very much. Jim, did the GCIB sell any nonperforming loans, or if you could quantify the amount, either -- of nonperforming loans sold or transferred to held for sale?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: We did.  

We did both. We sold roughly 340 -- are they all GCIB? I'm not clear on that. Mostly GCIB. We sold 340 and I'm not sure what the transfer is.  

100 million, maybe, transfer, and sort of either under contract or ready to be sold. So, yes, that was clearly one of the reasons for the big drop.  

DAVID HILDER: Okay. And I don't think we quite got to the answer -- the full answer to Ron's question about the original Parmalat exposure. What was that?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: If you take the 244 and add back the charge-offs, and the money taken from the cash collaterallized loans, you get it, so it's like 630 or 40 or something like that.  

DAVID HILDER: Can you quantify the addition to the legal reserves in the quarter?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: You know, I don't know what it is.  

Maybe -- we didn't have an addition to the reserves other than for settlements.  

DAVID HILDER: Okay.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: I guess is the best way to say it, so they're very specific.  

DAVID HILDER: All right. Then a total legal expense was around 175?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Legal expenses have been very heavy for both the settlements and, of course, the investigations.  

DAVID HILDER: Okay.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: They are clipping along -- we're doing our part for the legal community here.  

DAVID HILDER: I'm sure they appreciate it. Thanks very much, Jim.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Andy Collins with Piper Jaffray, your line is open.  

ANDREW COLLINS, PIPER JAFFRAY: Yeah, good morning. Just a couple of nit-pickings here.  

On that legal expense going forward, when would we expect that to start coming down? Second, the margin was up nicely in the quarter, I was wondering if you could provide the reasons why and perhaps a little bit of flare going into '04.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: I don't know when the legal numbers are going to come down. If you think about the tail on all of these things, Enron's, what, two-and-a-half years old?  

And no litigation has been settled. I mean, so, there are serious tails on all of these issues. And they're going to run awhile, so I don't know when it comes down. I think it will drop heavily when settlement occurs on all the various issues, but that's not done yet, either.  

In terms of the margin, margin was a very positive story. It's primarily two things. It's primarily the mix change -- in other words, continuing mix into consumer loans has a positive impact.  

Secondly, it's been the positioning we did earlier for higher rates and the payoff of that in the fourth quarter, and if you will, the drag from higher trading portfolios was a little less in the fourth quarter than we've seen in prior quarters. In other words, the increase was a little less than we've seen, say second to third in terms of levels, so that -- and that's always a drag.  

And so those -- we had sort of a nice confluence of factors which gave us a higher margin in the fourth quarter.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Just to follow up --.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: The key, though, as you know, the key for us is net interest income, and that's what we focus on, and that will grow nicely in '04.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Okay, so with the ten-year coming back in to. say today it's at 399, would we expect maybe a little bit of pressure on that margin as you went longer dated in some of your investment securities?  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Yeah, I don't know. My guess is the margin will move around.  

I think we're going to have some of the same issues happening next year as this year, in that better consumer loans, consumer loan growth, et cetera, and middle market loan growth will help that. As we increase our trading portfolios, which I mentioned we were going to do to satisfy institutional customers, that will be a negative.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Okay. Great. Thanks, Jim.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Sure.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Jonathan Singer with Singer Interest, your line is open.  

JONATHAN SINGER (ph), SINGER INTERESTS: Hi, Jim.  

I've got two questions. One relates to the merger savings that y'all have discussed, and in the merger agreement with fleet, y'all talk about commitment to maintain the employment levels in New England, and I wonder how that impact your ability to meet your billion one in projected cost saves.  

And then my second question also relates to fleet. Traditionally Bank of America has paired back its emerging market type of operations. I'm wondering what the strategic plan is for the Latin-American operations of fleet.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: On the cost saves, it looks low now, doesn't it, at 1.1 billion, compared to this morning's announcement.  

The commitment to New England is one that we meet by moving businesses there and by reconfiguring our businesses. So does it not impact us in terms of our meeting our cost saves, not at all.  

And we were meeting that, as you know, by moving businesses from San Francisco and Atlanta and various other parts of our franchise into New England. So the 1.1 billion is secure. In terms of Latin America, we are comfortable with Latin America. We've made no strategic decisions that would change what we're doing in Latin America.  

We're supporting Latin America, we believe Latin America will have a nice turnaround in 2004 and it offers us some opportunity of growth that we're interested in. So there's nothing that would change that on the horizon.  

JONATHAN SINGER (ph): Thank you.  

JAMES HANCE, JR.: Okay. Questions here?  

Great. Thank you very much for your attention, and I appreciate your questions.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2004, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2004 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2004 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   AN
Document FNDW000020040129e01f000rv
  


 HD
 Q3  2003  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,682 words
   PD
14 October 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
EDITOR: [There were technical issues with the webcast and Telephone audio for this event. Approximately three minutes were unable to be transcribed. This call begins in progress.]  

JIM HANCE, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Before turning to the individual businesses, let's discuss net interest income from a corporate-wide perspective. Net interest income on an FTE basis in the third quarter was down 1% to $47 million from levels in the second quarter. Positive impact from consumer loan growth, higher deposits and one more day in the quarter were more than offset by the lower levels of securities and loans, both corporate and foreign.  

   TD
Now, we don't manage to the margin, but for those of you who do focus on it, let me talk about it for a minute. The net interest margin dropped 11 basis points from the second quarter level. The impact of a better loan mix and higher deposits was more than offset by higher levels of trading-related assets. Further, per FIN 46, approximately $12 billion of asset-backed commercial paper conduits were consolidated into the balance sheet at the end of the third quarter. This in fact had no impact on earnings or Tier 1 capital and probably no implementation of FIN 46 was delayed last week by the FASB until periods after December 15th. We decided to adopt it in the third quarter as originally issued and get it over with.  

In July we also informed you of our intention to reduce holdings of securities in the third quarter. We in fact did do that, reducing securities by about $50 billion in the quarter. As a result, those securities sold generated $233 million in gains. We also sold certain residential mortgage loans which generated $197 million in gain the third quarter compared to $282 million in gains in the second quarter. They are, of course, reported in other income.  

As of the end of September we are almost neutral to interest rate movements going forward. Our securities portfolio has an unrealized appreciation at the end of September of $150 million. That's down nearly a billion dollars from the second quarter level, but offset, as you know, by an increase in the economic value of our deposit base.  

Now let's turn to our individual businesses.  

Consumer and commercial banking earned a record $2.1 billion or 73% of the corporation's third quarter earnings, with a return on equity of 42%. This is an earnings increase of 28% from a year ago and 15% from the second quarter.  

Much as we have seen all year, highlights include excellent account and deposit growth, strong fee generation driven by mortgage banking, hard income and service charges. We're also beginning to see signs of progress in our Hispanic retail strategy with the redesign of our safe send sales process and the introduction of Bi-national mortgages. Further, 57 new stores have been opened so far this year.  

Productivity in terms of sales per associate increased 19% over the second quarter and more than 43% over last year, and unit sales are up 5% and 28% respectively.  

In the third quarter net new consumer checking accounts increased 425,000, bringing the nine-month total to approximately 1 million, originally our goal for the whole year. Net new accounts so far this year have almost doubled last year's total growth of 528,000. Since last year same store sales for checking accounts in the bank's 4200 banking centers has increased 34%.  

Now, driving that increase, as it has for the last several quarters, for introduction of new products, advancement of our multicultural strategy, and importantly, improved account retention. Checking accounts are in fact the key measure of growth because they are often the first step in building customer relationships.  

Active on-line banking customers continue to grow, as well, reaching 6.6 million, up 52% from last year. 41% of active checking customers are using the service. Active bill pay customers increased to 2.8 million customers, up 90% from last year. These users now pay more than $12 billion a quarter in bills and that's an 80% increase over last year. On-line banking customers contribute to increased profitability, as you know, through higher retention levels and significantly more balances, both deposits and loans, with the bank. On-line customers who use bill pay have an even stronger retention characteristic.  

Total mortgage banking income for the quarter increased to 666 million as the large backlog at the end of the second quarter resulted in higher third quarter sales volumes and continued strong origination volumes. First mortgage originations during the quarter were flat with the second quarter at $40 billion. The higher third party sales volumes and better profit margins resulted in gains from higher secondary loan sales of $240 million in the quarter versus 136 million in the second quarter. And again, approximately two-thirds of our originations this year continue to be retail, giving us an opportunity to deepen the customer relationship.  

Mortgages funded through our loan solutions platform, our branch-based platform, increased over second quarter to 12.3 billion. And so far in 2003 have totalled more than $33 billion, or about a quarter of our total originations. The warehouse and pipeline and the loan applications at quarter end were approximately 50% lower than at the end of June. However, loan solutions has dramatically expanded our retail distribution and improved the mortgage process for our customers versus where we were prior to the introduction of the loan solutions platform.  

Card income also continued to show terrific progress. Card income increased 4% from second quarter levels and 16% from a year ago, driven by new accounts, higher outstandings for credit card and higher penetration and activation levels for debit card. Debit card purchase volumes grew 5% in the second quarter and 23% from a year ago, while consumer credit card volumes rose 9% in the second quarter and 14% from a year ago. Total managed consumer card revenue, including net interest income, increased 9% in the second quarter and 26% from the results a year ago.  

Consumer credit card receivables on average grew 8% on a managed basis from second quarter levels. And that was driven by increased marketing efforts as well as by greater credit card sales generated through the branch network. These results reflect the reduced interchange fee for signature debit cards which became effective August 1st. We estimate the impact in the third quarter was approximately $24 million after tax of the change in signature debit card.  

Total service charges in the consumer and commercial bank in total rose 7% from last year and benefited from higher levels of deposit fees, primarily due to new account growth. Average deposits in the consumer and commercial bank which represent the core of our bulk deposits -- excuse me -- the bulk have our core deposits were up 13% from a year ago and 4% from the second quarter due to government tax cuts, to higher customer retention and our efforts to add new customers.  

Consumer credit quality came in as expected and reflected a seasonal improvement in the percentage of managed credit card net losses. Managed credit card net losses as a percentage of the portfolio decreased 41 basis points to 5.33% on an annualized basis versus the second quarter but in fact are up 20 basis points versus levels a year ago. The ratio decrease in the second quarter was due to an 8% growth in managed credit card outstandings.  

And as we've mentioned historically, we have experienced improvement in the percentage of net losses in the second half of the year, and this year appears to be no different than prior years. Net losses in dollar terms were relatively flat in the second quarter but were up from last year due to continued loan growth, due to the seasoning of the portfolio, and of course, economic conditions.  

The 30 and 90-day delinquencies improved 15 basis points and 4 basis points respectively from the second quarter. Excluding credit card, consumer net charge-offs of $112 million were relatively flat with second quarter levels and were down 9% on a year-to-date basis.  

Now, in the commercial banking segment earnings were up 13% from the second quarter due to increased fee revenue and a lower provision. Although up from a year ago, period end loan levels in commercial banking were down about 1% from June levels, and that was due mainly to the sluggish markets and syndication activity that lowered the outstanding.  

Fee income in the commercial banking group benefited in the quarter from higher letter of credit fees and investment banking revenue, including sales of derivatives and M&A. Commercial banking credit quality continued to improve as charge-offs within the commercial banking unit were down 14% versus the previous quarter and down 23% on a year-to-date basis. Commercial banking non-performing loans also dropped 9% from levels last quarter and are down about 28% from levels a year ago.  

Now, before turning to GCIB, let me digress a moment and comment on a business that overlaps both our consumer and commercial bank and a global corporate at investment bank. And that's global Treasury services. This is a business that usually gets lost in the explanation of more exotic revenue flows but which by itself is a dependable, stable source of revenue that contributes significantly to the bottom line. This year along revenue from Treasury management function will total almost $4 billion and provide us with a return on equity of about 40%. This business is very scalable and can grow revenue with modest expense growth. And we're really good at it. Last month Treasury and risk management magazine named Bank of America the best bank in domestic cash management, and we were one of three banks named among the best three banks in international cash management.  

So, turning to global corporate investment banking, earnings in the quarter were $513 million with a return on equity of 22%, up 16% versus the second quarter and up 33% from a year ago. Although revenue was down slightly from results in the second quarter, investment banking and trading had another strong quarter in tandem with good results in our global Treasury services unit. Investment banking revenue decreased 14% from the record results in the second quarter to approximately 400 million but were in fact up 32% versus a year ago. Although up 97% from a year ago, securities underwriting fees decreased 19% in the second quarter to the $238 million level. The second quarter was bolstered by a few significant IPO and fixed income transactions. Syndication fees only, decreased 8% in the second quarter to $103 million as the overall U.S. market volume decreased 33% in the quarter. Advisory services fees increased 16% in the second quarter to $50 million.  

Year to date GCIB has shown impressive market share gains in the areas of equities and convertibles, in mortgage backed securities and M&A. In convertibles Bank of America securities continue their momentum, increasing their market share to 8.4% from 4.5% a year ago. From a pipeline perspective we are entering the fourth quarter with a stronger investment banking backlog as compared to the beginning of the third quarter, particularly in equities, high yield and M&A.  

Turning to trading, total trading-related revenue for the third quarter was $688 million. And that's an increase of 4% or $27 million from the second quarter. Foreign exchange revenues were up 9% to $135 million. Revenue from interest rate contracts of 285 million was up 15% as customers continued to take advantage of the low interest rate environment. Fixed income trading of $215 million was down 64 million a quarter due to weaker results in mortgages and corporates, also reflecting higher interest rates and widening mortgage spreads.  

Fixed income revenue did benefit, however, from a lower mark to market write-down as spreads continue to narrow and credit default swaps. In this quarter we had a $77 million write-down versus 142 million in the prior quarter.  

Equities revenue dropped 36% to $64 million. Revenues from commodities and other increased $78 million due to the significant negative impact in the second quarter from lower jet fuel prices related to the SARS scare. Deposit levels at period end in GCIB were down $16 billion, and that was due primarily to decreases in compensating balances by the U.S. Treasury as well as decreases in foreign deposits which we access for funding when the price is right.  

Credit quality in GCIB in the third quarter continues to look better. We believe the overall credit environment has been stabilizing throughout the year and more recently we have witnessed clear signs of improvement.  

Large corporate net charge-offs dropped slightly to $170 million, but were down 16% versus a year ago. This is the lowest level of net charge-offs in three years.  

Large corporate non-performing assets dropped approximately $635 million or 27% from levels at the end of June, driven mainly by non-performing loan sales in the quarter of approximately $480 million. As in the second quarter, in-flows of new loans into non-accrual status have decreased and criticized levels continue to trend lower.  

Our third core business segment is asset management. Totals revenue rose 1% over second quarter levels even with the absence of tax preparation fees that were seasonally present in the second quarter. Revenue drivers included the strong sales and investment performance of the Marceko funds, which increased assets under management by 18% to 25 billion at the end of the quarter.  

Overall expenses continued to reflect the additional financial advisors that are being added every quarter. So tar this year we have added 164 financial advisors, one short of our target for 2003. At the end of the third quarter assets under management were up 1% from the second quarter to $318 billion. And that was due to a 7% pickup in equities.  

Our fourth and fine business segment is equity investments. Revenue was down due to lower cash gains and lower mark to market principal investing. Impairments were a negative 100 million this quarter versus 107 million negative in the second quarter. However, from a corporate perspective, much of the revenue decrease in principal investing was offset by gains in corporate investments.  

Now let's switch for a minute to non-interest expense levels for the corporation as a whole. Versus the second quarter overall non-interest expense was relatively flat. Items of note during the quarter were professional fees that reflect litigation accruals of approximately $75 million associated with pending litigation. We also had higher occupancy expenses of about $39 million associated with vacating unused space and we had higher other general operating expense resulting from the establishment of a specific reserve of $100 million associated with the mutual fund situation. That said, the efficiency ratio improved to 51.1% from the second quarter.  

Two additional items of note affecting the income statement this quarter were the tax rate and our provision for credit losses. The past several quarters we have estimated our effective tax rate on a non-FTE bases to be 33%. In the third quarter we adjusted our year to date tax rate to bring it in line with our current estimate of 32.5%.  

We've also been experiencing an improving trends in credit quality on several fronts. Partially offsetting this trend and tempering our optimism, however, is the uncertainty around the extent and depth of the domestic recovery. The impact of rising rates on sectors of the portfolio and the uncertainty in certain parts of the global arena.  

All this being said, we have decreased the allowance for loan losses by approximately $125 million this quarter. We will continue to review the characteristics of our various loan portfolios to determine an appropriate level of reserve and act accordingly.  

Now, many of you saw our press release last Tuesday discussing the additional measures we have taken as a result of the ongoing inquiry into our mutual fund practices. We committed to provide restitution for shareholders of nation's funds who may have been harmed by late trading and by market timing practices of Canary. In addition, we have committed to provide restitution for third -- shareholders of third party mutual funds who may have been harmed by any late trading activities by Canary that are found to have occurred through us in the event restitution is not otherwise available from Canary, from its affiliates or its investors or from other third parties. We've also hired counsel and independent consultants to insure that Bank of America's mutual fund operations are conducted in the best interest of all of its customers. Now, we believe the trust and can have confidence of customers is paramount and are prepared to demonstrate that resolve as strongly as we can.  

Now, none of these actions were dictated by outsiders. Our aim in these actions is to be a leader in the industry by having the best controls, the best procedures and policies in the mutual fund business. Our internal investigation continues. And if any additional news develops, we will keep you informed.  

Now, as I said last quarter, our outlook for the next few quarters is not significantly different from what we have been saying for the past few months. Market rates have risen and the yield curve has steepened. Given how our balance sheet was positioned prior to the rise in rates, we are looking to benefit through growth in net interest income. Securities gains should decrease notably and mortgage banking income should drop to more normalized levels. At the same time losses in principal investing and the negative mark to market adjustments in credits, default swaps, should diminish, as well.  

The rest of our consumer businesses should continue to reflect the momentum that we have established over the past couple of years. As the economy continues to improve, we should see a pickup in assets management and principal investing. Investment banking should track market activity, and we should benefit from an improved equity platform versus a few years ago.  

The mix of our businesses and revenue streams provides us with flexibility to handle changes in the environment and still meet our goals. The company is very much encouraged by the direction of credit quality, but asset quality trends will be affected by the strength of the economic recovery. Bank of America clearly is headed for 2004 with a pretty good head of steam and we look forward to leveraging those opportunities as we see them. Now with that, let me open up the floor for questions.  

JIM HANCE: And we have a microphone that we're going to use this time, so perhaps people will be able to hear us a little better. Clarence?  

CLARENCE, AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Yes. Could you broaden your perspective on the I don't know consumer banking operations? What I'm looking at and what I'm questioning is the geographic distribution, the west versus the east, and looking at loan volume, looking at deposits and portfolio quality. Are there any particular characteristics in terms of where we're seeing the growth in opportunities on a regional basis?  

JIM HANCE: We're really seeing good growth pretty much everywhere, Clarence. The deposit growth has been very steady, about 11% year over year, core deposits about 13% growth. It's been pretty steady across the franchise. The introduction of new products, including My Access Checking, has helped.  

And it tends to follow, if you think about it, kind of the major population areas, California being particularly strong, Florida, of course, mid-Atlantic and Texas. The weakness we saw in the north and northwest is still sort of there, but the northwest -- even the northwest has been improving some.  

On the loan front, commercial loan front, has picked up in terms of lines of credit, has picked up in terms of activities and fees, it's not picked up in terms of drawing down lines of credit. So, we expect as the economy continues to sort of chug along here, we would expect those lines of credit to start being drawn down, and we look forward to that because that would be nice spread revenue. But by and large we're very pleased with the growth and the breadth of the growth that we're seeing across the consumer franchise.  

Ron?  

RON, AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Yeah, hi. You said that you saw good growth, or saw some growth coming in net interest revenue. I was wondering if you could elaborate on that? And then maybe somewhat related, you said that you were relatively neutral on interest rate sensitivity. Could you expound on what basis? Is that parallel shift or non-parallel shift or forward yield curve? How are you looking at that?  

JIM HANCE: Sure. If you remember for what, a year, year and a half, we've been talking about being in position for higher rates and have moved in and out of that sort of over this whole time frame. Well, if fact July, August, if you will, we did see higher rates. So, if you consider where we were positioned and where we are now, we've sort of achieved where we thought we were going, if that makes sense to you. So, consequently currently we're positioned for just slight bias for a rising yield curve. But essentially no bias for a parallel shift. So, we're sort of standing pat currently with where we are.  

Now, the effect of that, of course, is to have us reap the benefit for the earlier positioning in net interest income going forward. And you'll start to see that in the fourth quarter and into 2004. We'll give you better guidance of it in January.  

RON: So, basically you're getting the benefit of cash flow being reinvested at a higher rate? Is that what will drive net --  

JIM HANCE: It's a higher spread rate, if you will, and the reinvestment rate at a higher rate. And effectively deposits not moving up with the asset side.  

RON: Okay.  

JIM HANCE: Yeah, a question in the back ?  

UNIDENTIFIED, AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Jim, two quick questions. One is on your productivity per employee it looks like it's moving in the right direction. Also, I wonder about your marketing efforts. You had some pretty good attendance from the Colonial Golf Tournament. So, are you seeing both increased productivity in your marketing and your --  

JIM HANCE: Is this a golf question? I'm ready for a golf question. We actually have committed a lot of resources, as you know, to marketing. Let me take that first. We've done both product marketing and some brand advertising.  

We think it in fact is helping us. We know the advertising that's going towards the e-commerce business, the card business, etcetera, is very directly benefiting us. And you're seeing that in our growth numbers. Also, you can see it in the new checking accounts. New checking accounts have been superb, way exceeding our goal for the whole year already. So, all of that is coming off the marketing.  

In terms of productivity, we continue to see very good productivity benefits, if you will. We'll eventually tell you what we think the whole year was, but we're kinds of experiencing what we had anticipated. And that's a good thing because we're reinvesting all these dollars into new people and certain businesses. Certainly you're seeing that in the asset management world, you're seeing it in the new branches that we've opened, and you're seeing it in marketing. So, a lot of what we're getting in terms of the reinvestment dollars, if not all of it, is coming from the productivity gains that we're seeing across the board. And so, what we get in totals, if you think about it, is better leverage. So, what we're seeing is the revenues are just dropping further. I mean, and that on top of reduced credit cost is whata's giving us the nice net income benefit.  

Steve?  

STEVE, AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Thank you. Did you have a large loan recovery this past quarter that was talked about?  

JIM HANCE: No. We have a large loan recovery now, which is fourth quarter.  

STEVE: I see.  

JIM HANCE: Which there's been a press release on, I believe, in the last day or so. And that's fourth quarter.  

STEVE: How does the accounting work for that? Does that go back into the reserve or --  

JIM HANCE: No, I think in this case it was Dobson, which we've announced, and we ended up with shares in a restructuring, and as we liquidate those shares it's going to go through equity investments.  

STEVE: I see. Okay. All right. A question about the charge-off on commercial loans. You're pretty upbeat about commercial credit quality, but the charge-off rate is about the same in the third quarter as it was in the second. How much better -- do you expect it to get better, and if so, by how much?  

JIM HANCE: Well, I don't know the exact number, but we do expect it to get better. And the reason is the population is so much less. The non-performing loans on the large corporate side and the commercial side have dropped materially. And the sort of new non-performing loans, flow has dropped significantly, as has the entire criticized area. What you also saw this quarter somewhat, Steve, was a lot of loan sales. And while we were getting, you know, nearly our market, if you will, we still had some losses on those sales that were small, and that kept the charge-off up, if you will. Going forward we would expect that to be less.  

RON: [inaudible]  

JIM HANCE: I don't know what it is, Ron. The question is do I know what it was related to loan sale. It wasn't high, but it was reasonable. I mean, because -- and it helped keep the numbers sort of flat, if you will. But we were pleased with how close our mark was, if you will, towards the sale price of the ones that we were able to sell in the market.  

More questions here? Andy?  

ANDY, AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Yeah, there was a lot of kinds of one-time things in this quarter on both the revenue and the expense line. And I'm just kind of wondering, you know, if I do the math correctly, you still ended up beating the street by quite a margin. I'm just wondering kind of what you think the EPS kind of core rate of earnings growth is going forward.  

JIM HANCE: I'm not playing that game. I am not playing that game. Our earnings were $1.92, Andy. And you can add them and subtract in any way you want.  

I mean, it's very interesting. If you look at a company our size with the diversity of activities, the number of things we have going, I mean, it's gonna be -- there's always gonna be a lot of stuff. But when you cut through it, what you have is a very strong momentum of our core basic businesses, all right? And that's what carries us. After all the other stuff sort of nets and everything else, the strong momentum of the underlying franchise is just what carries us, and it continues to grow. It grows in terms of customers and activities and sales per associate and all of that, and as long as credit quality and expenses stay in control, then the productivity and the leverage will give us good earnings. And that's what you're seeing.  

How about a question here? Sure. Just a second. We'll get it to you here. Thanks.  

UNIDENTIFIED: Thank you. Jim, to take you in a different direction for a moment, this morning Fidelity was very vocal in the paper about the New York Stock Exchange trading operations. I wanted to know if you could share with us what Bank of America's thoughts are human versus electronic trading.  

JIM HANCE: That's a great question. I guess we do both. More and more trading and more and more activities, or what I call through put, if you will, not touched by human hands, which has some pluses on the efficiency side. At the same time, the old system, in the case of the New York Stock Exchange of the auction-based system or the outcry system, has some pluses to it. We do think the specialist system could use some adjustments. And we have grown, we have seen the specialists struggle to keep up with our volumes and our levels and our scale. And I understand that issue.  

And that's a real issue, and that's a capital issue and that's an issue that needs to sort of be addressed for the really large providers and users of the New York Stock Exchange, and that's what Fidelity's addressing. Fidelity's addressing that issue as did AIG and a few others. And that's a real issue, and that's just a scale issue and something that has to be determined in order to cut out some of what I call end of the day gyrations in share prices, right? And so, that needs to be looked at. And I assume they will as they're looking at governance and all their procedures at the New York Stock Exchange.  

A question here? Then we'll go to the phones in a minute. They're not doing a very good job of -- cart golf here. Kevin's running side to side here. We need a little better cart golf here.  

UNIDENTIFIED: Can you talk a little bit more about mortgage banking on a forward-looking basis? And how do all the pieces fit together? In other words, did you have MSR write-downs this quarter at all or not? And the gains on the sale of residential loans, does that go away when the origination pipeline slows down, et cetera, et cetera?  

JIM HANCE: Right. Let me talk about mortgage in general. This is a very strong quarter for mortgage and kind of a flow through, if you will, of the summer's activity of originations and pipeline and warehouse and margin and everything sort of hit this quarter, all very strong. Going forward, if you believe the industry's sort of view of originations and volume next year, they're talking about it being about half of where it was this year.  

I'll remind you they said the same thing a year ago and were wrong. So, I'm not sure how good the predictions are. But anyway, let's assume that for a minute.  

And we are seeing our pipeline, our origination applications, if you will, down by about half what it was in June, as is our pipeline and warehouse combination down about half from where it was in June. So, that sort of shows you what's going on.  

Now, we are not in the correspondent business, and that's important, which means the bulk of the drop won't affect us as much as it would a correspondent mortgage banking company.  

We're also about two-thirds retail, Steve. So, that makes another big difference. And we have the loan solutions product coming on strong, which is branch-based and tends to be more stable, if you will, than some of the refi activity.  

That said, we would expect our mortgage banking business to be reduced next year versus where it is now. Will it reduce by half? No. f And the reason is you won't have the MSR write-downs, all right, and you won't have some of the other activities and incentives and other things that are going on that would -- that would have affected this year's earnings at a higher level. You also have a slight shift and the loan solutions product margin is higher than not, if you will, higher than wholesale or other retail. And so, we're gonna get a little shift here at a lower level of volume which, yes, we will have a little less income. We'll have less income, but we won't have, like, half if the market kind of goes that way.  

Now, on the loan sales, that's going to depend very much on our view of asset-liability management and our view of how much we want to hold. So, that's a tougher question. In other words -- and the gains will be there if we choose to sell them, all right? If we choose not to, we won't, all right? So, I mean, that's a little different question. And right now we're in our mind thinking we're gonna have less gains, just practically. But that we will see.  

We should also expect to see a servicing level increase as production goes forward, less refinances and less runoff, all right? So, that's just the normal effects of it. And as the servicing levels increase, we'll have more servicing income, all right, where now it's been a churn.  

In terms of MSR, the MSR actually went up from June to September. And the reason is rates went up. So, the MSR went up with it. More than you ever warranted to know about mortgage. More than anybody else ever wanted to know about mortgage.  

UNIDENTIFIED: [inaudible]  

JIM HANCE: No, it does not get written up. It goes up as you add new mortgages. And you don't have the currents portfolio dropping, okay? So, it just stays where it is. Okay.  

Lee, a question?  

LEE, AUDIENCE PARTICIPANT: Jim, you touched on all the pieces of mortgage except the size of your portfolio. There's about 146 billion in residential mortgages periods ends versus 108. Can you just describe the change and what you expect that to be doing?  

AL DIMOLINA, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: It's gonna drop, right? I mean, don't you sort of seeing it dropping flat to down. It's gonna be flat to down more or less going forward.  

JIM HANCE: And you can't look at that item by itself. You also have to look at what's going on in the swap book, and that's come down pretty significantly, as well. So, you've got to look at the combination of both those pieces. But I think mortgage concentration probably stays about where it is or trends down in the whole loan book.  

Okay. Let's go to the telephone lines for a minute and we'll come back.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. If you would like to ask a question, please press star and then the number 1 on your keypad. Your first question comes from John McDonald with UBS.  

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Jim, hi.  

JIM HANCE: Good morning.  

JOHN MCDONALD: In terms of the credit card, how well have you penetrated your deposit households with your card product?  

JIM HANCE: Yeah, we're guessing here, but it's like 30 to 35% would be the penetration with our card product, and going up, since we've done a much better job, a great job of cross sales and putting it in the hands of our mortgage customers as they become new mortgage customers.  

JOHN MCDONALD: And do you have a card solutions platform that's gonna roll out similar to the mortgage loan solutions?  

JIM HANCE: Not really, no, no. Mortgage loan solutions, as you know, is kind of an expedited process, and it's very customer-friendly. Card is already very expedited and very customer-friendly.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Would you say about 30 to 35%?  

JIM HANCE: Yeah, it's right in that range.  

JOHN MCDONALD: And could you clarify, do you expect net interest income to be up sequentially in the fourth quarter assuming no dramatic change in interest rates from here?  

JIM HANCE: We do.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tom McCandless with Deutsche Bank.  

TOM MCCANDLESS, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANC: Good morning, Jim. Could you give us a sense of what you expect for expenses on a go forward basis overall and as it relates to GCIB?  

JIM HANCE: Overall expenses should be more or less flat to slightly up. It will be affected mostly by the flow of revenues and incentives, which tend to track a little bit. But we don't have anything peculiar that will come in there one way or the other. So, it should be reasonably flat.  

GCIB is very, very direct, if you will. And theirs will be influenced tremendously by fourth quarter and next year revenue flows. As their revenue flows go up, so will their expenses. They've been doing a good job of holding their ratios and otherwise reducing expenses other than direct related expenses. So, theirs should not be out of the norm, either.  

TOM MCCANDLESS: And as a follow-up, if I may, could you drill down into your comments a little bit about the middle market borrowing base as it relates to the uptick in lines of credit that's been cited as growing, increasing lines of credit, is that a conscious product push? Is there some demand out there? Is it any -- is there any geographic nature to the demand? Could you just drill into that? Is it short-term, long-term? Is it trade finance, et cetera?  

JIM HANCE: Okay. Let's see if I can deal with it here a little bit. Putting it in perspective a second, the book is about $56 billion middle market loan book. It was up slightly in the fourth quarter, 1% in the first quarter, 1.7% in the second quarter, is now down slightly 1%. What we were hoping to see, as you know, was a continuing growth in the book, which would signify to us a strengthening economy and more ends loan demand.  

What we're seeing, interestingly, is some pretty good loan activity and loan demand. We're just not seeing much utilization. So, the activity has been very good in the commercial business. That's why their profits are up, because they're getting loan fees and loan activities. What we're not seeing is draw down. And there have been some syndications going on in that business which has taken the balances down just a little.  

So, it's relatively healthy. We have not seen -- it's very healthy, actually. We've seen reductions in non-performing loans, in credit losses, et cetera. So all that's very healthy. We're just not seeing the big jump in volume we would like to see or you would normally see as the economy starts to recover.  

Do we think it will happen? We think so. I mean, we think as businesses start to draw down credit that ... that will come.  

Geographically I don't know that there's anything that's peculiar on the geographic front. We tend to be in the better areas to do this. As you know, more or less Sunbelt and the high population areas, that helps. I don't know what it's like out of our area because this is very franchise-based. Some of it is trade, yes, for sure. But not an overwhelming amount.  

And the Treasury services business that's sort of tied to it has been very robust and particularly strong, as well. We just haven't seen the balance growth that we would expect to see going forward. Does that help?  

TOM MCCANDLESS: Very much, Jim. Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Ruchi Madan with Smith Barney.  

RUCHI MADAN, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hi, Jim. A couple of questions. You're obviously feeling better about commercial credit, and you mentioned something about continuing to review the loan portfolio to look at reserve levels. Should we expect something similar to this quarter that you'll draw down as you see appropriate, or should we think about a larger one-time adjustment?  

JIM HANCE: Now, we would hope to analyze our need for reserve, if you will, every quarter and adjust to it. Or, if you will, we have decoupled the charge-off from the provision, or provision from the charge-off. So, going forward I think you're going to see us definitely look at what we think to be the loss components, what we think the history of losses have been with the relative levels of non-performing and problems assets in flows would be.  

I don't think the 125 is a fixed number or a pattern or anything else. I don't see it going up, if you will. And I also don't see us doing a large one-time adjustment.  

As you know, there's a lot of discussion going on about this between the AICPA and the regulators and the S.E.C. and everybody, and we are trying to be responsive to that discussion and try and deal with it accordingly. We still have about a 20% general reserve, and that's after the reduction in the loan loss reserve this quarter. We're also sitting with almost two times loan loss reserve to non-performing loans and a little over two times reserve to charge-offs on an annualized basis. So, we have to constantly look at this and make sure we have the right level. And that's what we're doing.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. So, in other words, you're telling us that you'll continue to draw down the reserve, but it won't necessarily be as large as the 125?  

JIM HANCE: I don't know what it will be. We're going to constantly look at it and see whether the reserve is adequate or not.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. And then a separate question on the MSR. It looks like your carrying value is about 99 basis points, which is up from 70 basis points. I was just wondering if there was any income statement impact of that. And maybe you could just tell us what happened on the hedging strategy.  

JIM HANCE: No impact on that. And that's primarily because we are hedged. I mean, the hedging itself, if you will, takes out income statement impact either way for us, okay?  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. Great.  

JIM HANCE: So, no income statement effect.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mike Mayo with Prudential.  

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Hi, Jim. You mentioned you had lots of loan sales. How much in problem loans did you sell? What were the total amount of loan sales? And did the gain on the residential mortgage loan sales cover all the gains?  

JIM HANCE: I think we sold 480 out of the large corporate portfolio of all non-performers. And I don't know if we sold any commercial or not. Did we? A very small amount.  

The -- they're totally unrelated. Whatever we had in the way of losses on selling that 480 is included in the 170 million charge-off in GCIB.  

MIKE MAYO: Okay.  

JIM HANCE: And the gain on sale of mortgages, if you will, is just a different number. I mean, just different.  

MIKE MAYO: Okay.  

JIM HANCE: So, they don't relate at all.  

MIKE MAYO: A separate question. The head count's flat, which is good. You're getting revenue growth. You expects to get more revenue growth. Might you change that a little built to still get even more revenue growth? I mean, how long do you keep the head count flat if you see things are improving?  

JIM HANCE: Well, that's a good question. I think it depends a lot on productivity initiatives, continuing productivity initiatives and how fast we can ramp up new branches. The largest user right now of new headcount is new branches and asset management additions, if you will.  

And we'll just have to see. I mean, we would like to see head count increases commensurate with growth in the business. So, that would be fine with us. At the same time we're going to push for continuing productivity. So, I wouldn't read anything into any of it. Just it could move around from quarter to quarter, Mike.  

MIKE MAYO: And then last question. The credit card growth, you're penetrating the footprint better. To what degree are you seeing just a pickup in the credit card prospects generally?  

JIM HANCE: Well, the volume numbers are pretty good. I mentioned the volume numbers to you. They were roughly 9% quarter over quarter and double-digit it year-over-year. So, we're seeing some pretty good volume increases going through there on both debit and credit side. So, volume increases have been helpful, and the average balances are up slightly.  

MIKE MAYO: I guess I'm saying, as one of the largest consumer lenders, are you feeling better about the consumer based on what you're seeing?  

JIM HANCE: Oh, we felt good about then all along. The questions are always there about when does a consumer hit the wall? We have seen no signs of that whatsoever and continue to feel really good about the consumer and all the consumer characteristics and the delinquencies are better, everything's better. And we saw the drop, if you will, from second quarter to third quarter in cards charge-offs, which is what we expected. But it happened, and that just reinforces our thinking.  

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Kline with Sandler, O'Neil.  

JOHN KLINE, ANALYST, SANDLER, O'NEIL: Hi, Jim. Thanks.  

JIM HANCE: Good morning.  

JOHN KLINE: Good morning. A question for you. I noticed your fed funds position increased pretty significantly. It's up to about 11.5% on your total assets. Now, two questions there: one, is that part of the thought process in having excess liquidity to reinvest into higher yields?  

JIM HANCE: No, it's all trading-related. The GCIB world trading portfolios have gone up materially as we have beefed up our resources and tried to do a better job with our institutional customers. Those balances have gone up. And that fed funds is totally related to that.  

JOHN KLINE: All right. Looking at that, I thought the yield looked kind ever high. Is there any special reason for that?  

JIM HANCE: Yield looked high? Where?  

JOHN KLINE: In your average balance sheet.  

JIM HANCE: I always thought the yield looked lousy. Al, are you hiding something?  

AL DIMOLINA: That goes through to FAS 1313 and how you link some of the derivatives that are in the portfolio. Really that's derivative  

JOHN KLINE: I agree it's a lousy yield, but it's higher than most of the feds funds I looked at.  

JIM HANCE: Higher lousy, right?  

JOHN KLINE: Right. Thanks a lot, Jim.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from David Pringle with Fulcrum Global Partners.  

DAVID PRINGLE, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: As if you need one more question on the mortgage banking, are there any marginal expenses in that business?  

JIM HANCE: Any what?  

DAVID PRINGLE: Marginal expenses in that business.  

JIM HANCE: There are. There tends to be on the production side with the incentive and the production side. I guess that's probably the most marginal, and everything else is more or less scale and stair step.  

DAVID PRINGLE: How much in marginal expenses do you have in the business?  

JIM HANCE: Oh, I don't know. But I mean, you're gonna see -- you'll see it move very much in tandem with origination and pipeline. So, you may see some head count adjustments as the volumes drops. I don't know what the percent is, though. I'd have to look it up for you.  

DAVID PRINGLE: Just one other quick question. The C & I was down about three billion on the quarter since the middle market was flat. I guess the rest of it is large corporate. Where is that process at this point?  

JIM HANCE: The process, I hope, is bottoming out. We were about what, 44 billion, I think, in terms of what the large corporate balances are, down materially over the last year, year and a half. We still want to do a little bit more distribution, if that's the right word, a little bit more variation within the portfolio. And the balances may come down a little bit, but we are not in any way striving to push them down materially lower. We think as the economy picks up they'll actually go up a little bit, but again we want more distribution within the portfolio.  

DAVID PRINGLE: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from David Hilder with Bear Sterns.  

DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning, Jim. Just a brief question. What's the duration of your available for sale securities portfolio?  

JIM HANCE: About five.  

DAVID HILDER: Thanks very much.  

JIM HANCE: And that's up slightly from June.  

DAVID HILDER: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, Jim. How are you?  

JIM HANCE: Good.  

NANCY BUSH: I don't know if you can answer this question or if it's still, you know, too early to do that, but on the whole mutual fund situation, I mean, has -- number one, as you foresee it right now, when did this issue, at what point did this issue become resolved? Is it fourth quarter? Does this drag on into next year, whatever? Secondly, has this sort of changed your plans at all for the wealth management strategy or, you know, anything else within the asset management arena?  

JIM HANCE: Good two questions. I really don't know when it's resolved. I wish I did. I just wish we had a feel for it. As the investigation tends to widen and bring in others, it looks like it goes longer to me. But I just don't have a feel for it at all. We would love to resolve our piece of it, if we can do that. And a lot of that will depend upon the success that the experts and consultants and others that we have hired to help us look at this have. So, that will take some time.  

This really hasn't impacted our desire to have a larger wealth management business. It certainly has -- it certainly has encouraged us to look at it more in-depth or differently or something, all of which we're doing. We are in fact looking at it very, very hard, as you know, in connection with the mutual fund matter.  

But we still think it's an opportunity. We think it's a natural opportunity for our business and for our customers, and we're still too small in it. So, I mean, it hasn't impacted any of that, although it has been a measurable experience, and we're still working through it.  

NANCY BUSH: if I could also ask, I think you said that there was a $100 million reserve that was set up this quarter specifically related to this. Does this incorporate the cost of the -- you know, the technology consultants you're bringing in? Are we gonna see some elevated level of ongoing expense that's not included in that reserve?  

JIM HANCE: We tried to estimate what we think the costs are going to be and set up a reserve for that. That would include legal costs and consultant costs and sort of ongoing period costs. What we don't know, of course, is what an eventual settlement find will be or anything like that. So, that is not in the reserve. But we will continue to adjust the reserve as we know more about it, as we know more about restitution costs or ongoing costs or all the above. But we just thought we'd take an initial beginning of the reserve.  

NANCY BUSH: Thanks very much  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Brock Vandervleit with Lehman Brothers.  

BROCK VANDERVLEIT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks very much. I just wanted to clarify that reserve. Did that run through the expenses in the asset management area?  

JIM HANCE: It was split between asset management and GCIB 50/50.  

BROCK VANDERVLEIT: Okay. Split 50/50. And Jim, just in terms of broader balance sheet dynamics, if we assume that loan growth does not increase demonstrably in the next couple of quarters, does that therefore mean the investment securities gradually build back as you defends spread revenue?  

JIM HANCE: I think it depends on level of rates. I don't think you're going to see the investment securities build at these kind of levels.  

AL DIMOLINA: We do have, though, some level of forward purchases that will settle in the first part of next year that will bring the securities portfolio up. In essence we did what we said we were gonna do. We got out in front of the backup in rates, and as rates backed up, we then reinvested. And that's where we're locking in some of that pickup and reducing our asset sensitivities. So, those do not yet reflected on the balance sheet and will be in the first quarter.  

BROCK VANDERVLEIT: Okay. Thank you.  

JIM HANCE: How about questions back here in the room? Ron did you have one? Did you give up on us?  

RON: No. I was gonna ask about the negative operating leverage in GCIB versus a year ago. But then I think when you said that some of the reserves were in there, that sounds like you'd be close to matching revenue and expense growth. But you know, still a lot of your peers in that business had significant positive operating leverage year to year.  

JIM HANCE: Well, you also have in GCIB some catch-up on vacant space. I mean, the vacant space we've been experiencing is predominantly GCIB. So, that's having an impact on their expense leverage, as well.  

Okay. Questions? Any more on the phone?  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Jim, if you could just give us a little bit of color on the expense ratio going forward? I know that much of the efficiency gains that you have generated have been reinvested in the business. I noticed a couple of days ago there was some outsourcing that you've been continuing to increase. I'm wondering if we can expect some more of those efficiency gains to fall to the bottom line going forward, and also, if you could just comment on broader outsourcing trends.  

JIM HANCE: Yeah, we would actually expect our efficiency ratio to continue to improve. We're at 51 and change now. We still have a goal of getting to around 50. To some extent we would be there if it weren't for some of the special items. And so, that's our challenge, I think, going forward. We should also have a benefit just from higher rates. As net interest income goes up, I mean, that will help us, as well.  

BETSY GRASECK: Sure. There's a lot of leverage there.  

JIM HANCE: Say again?  

BETSY GRASECK: There's a lot of leverage there with higher rates.  

JIM HANCE: I think there's a lot of leverage there. There really is. We intend to continue to invest in the business. The investments in the business have paid off in terms of revenue growth for us and new customers, so there's no reason not to do that. So, we will continue to do that and continue to feed that from productivity enhancements.  

BETSY GRASECK: And then just on the outsourcing trends, is there any other areas that you're looking to increase meaningfully?  

JIM HANCE: We're still proceeding on the same ones. I mean, we've -- I guess the largest outsourcing item this year for us was the network to EDS.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right.  

JIM HANCE: Probably the most significant. We continue to look to see if others can do something better than we can do it. And the opportunities are not abundant on that, but we continue to look at that. We continue to see whether or not we can do something more efficient in enough different ways. So, we're looking at it constantly. But I don't think you're going to see anything of real magnitude here that moves the dial materially. We have been a very efficient purchaser, if you will. I mean, so, we have a lot of benefits already from our buying power, whether we do it or whether we outsource it. So, we've gotten a lot of those benefits already.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Great. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Jonathan Finger with Finger Interest.  

JONATHAN FINGER, ANALYST, FINGER INTEREST: Hi, Jim. Two questions on your Hispanic strategy. Can you talk about your bi-national mortgages and what kind of volume you expect that to eventually get to?  

JIM HANCE: You know, I don't think we know what it's going to be. We now have it in place. It's starting to work. Our teams have been -- between Seraphim and our teams, we've been terrifically working together. And we're starting to see some traction. We re-did safe sends, we now have opened up ATMs in Mexico to effectively our customers and vice versa.  

So, we're doing a lot like that. And I don't know what we expect in terms of volumes. We would expect them to certainly ramp up, and we'll report them when we know them. But right now we really accidents have -- we have fairly modest goals to see if it works. And if modest goals are realized, then we'll ramp up the goals. We're doing some things on the cash management side.  

So, we're doing quite a bit in terms of not only our relations with Seraphim and [San Tandare], but in terms of our strategy. And all of those are starting to kick in, although they're modest. Admittedly they're modest early on, but they're it right steps.  

JONATHAN FINGER: Okay, thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question is follow-up from Ruchi Madan with Smith Barney.  

RUCHI MADAN: I just wants to clarify your comments on the rate positioning and net interest income. First of all, I just want to make sure you're saying you'll benefit from your prior rate positioning, but now you're basically neutral, is that correct?  

JIM HANCE: Yes.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. And secondly, you're saying that the net interest income will be you up as you benefit from your prior rate positioning. But if we look at your period ends balance sheet relative to your average, it doesn't look that different. So, can you help us understand how net interest income goes up?  

AL DIMOLINA: Sure. Ruchi, this is Al. Yeah, it's imbedded that last comment I made on the forward purchases of the mortgages. We have things that are settling in the first part of next year. You'll start to see the pickup in the fourth quarter, as Jim mentioned, it will accelerate in the early part of next year.  

RUCHI MADAN: So, the fourth quarter pickup is relatively small, and then we get a more meaningful pickup?  

AL DIMOLINA: It's above the third, okay?  

RUCHI MADAN: So, there's some forward purchases settling in the fourth quarter, as well?  

AL DIMOLINA: And some adjustments we're getting, yes.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. Thanks  

OPERATOR: Your next question is a follow-up from Brock Vandervleit with Lehman Brothers.  

BROCK VANDERVLEIT: Thanks very much. If you could just comment on what looks like a slight market share decline in convertibles and equity in the quarter? I know you mentioned that the second quarter was unusually strong, but what are your comments regarding market share?  

JIM HANCE: I guess what I was looking at was sort of year to date, Brock. So, the year to date is where it's been particularly strong. And we'll have to see if it continues. But I would view third quarter to be an aberration if in fact we did lose some there.  

BROCK VANDERVLEIT: Okay. Thank you.  

JIM HANCE: Okay.  

OPERATOR: There are no further questions from the phone lines at this time.  

JIM HANCE: Thank you. How about here? Anything else here? Okay. Thank you all very much. See you in January.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. That concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020031028dzae0008e
  


 HD
 Q2  2003  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,165 words
   PD
14 July 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
KEVIN STITT, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Good morning. I'm Kevin Stitt, Bank of America Investor Relations. Before Jim Hance, our Chief Financial Officer begins his comments, let me remind you the presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding our financial conditions, results and expectations that these statements involve certain risks that could cause actual results [INAUDIBLE] from our current [INAUDIBLE] These factors include among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes in interest rates, competitive pressures, or legislative or regulatory changes that may impact our business. For additional factors, please see our press release and SEC documents. And now, let me turn it over to Jim Hance. Thank you.  

   TD
James Hance, Jr.: Thanks, Kevin, that was thrilling. Good morning and welcome to the quarterly earnings review for Bank of America. It's been a while since the numbers have been this good, especially the positive direction across the board.  

Further improvement in our customer metrics combined with visible momentum in all of our businesses produced earnings in the second quarter that exceeded many of our expectations. These results however reaffirmed our belief that the economy is improving at a moderate pace.  

Total revenue, excluding securities gain rose 12% from a year ago and was up 8% from the first quarter. We continue to demonstrate the effectiveness of our business model and diversity of revenue stream.  

Our consumer business has achieved record results. Investment banking and asset management benefited from our ongoing investment in these businesses and of course from increased market activity.  

Sales productivity in our banking channel continues at strong momentum and customer satisfaction again rose to new highs. Core deposits continue to grow and capital levels remain strong. Beginning in September you remember that our quarterly dividend will increase by 25%.  

Although a record number of options were exercised this quarter, 29 million to be specific, we were successful in offsetting the share increase through repurchasing. Period end shares were down 1 million shares from the end of March.  

Credit quality seems to be stabilizing. Total net chargeoffs were down 7% from first quarter results and 13% from a year ago. Nonperforming assets dropped 12% from March levels due primarily to decreases in the large corporate portfolio.  

All of these factors resulted in earnings of $2.7 billion, or a $1.80 per share on a diluted basis. And that compares to $1.40 a share a year ago and $1.59 in the first quarter. Now seasonality makes some link quarter comparisons more complicated, but when making comparisons of results between periods I'll try to use a comparison that best conveys the actual trend in our various businesses.  

As I have done the past couple quarters, let me discuss net interest income for the company in total before turning to the individual businesses.  

Net interest income on an FTE basis in the quarter improved from first quarter levels by approximately 3% or $163 million. That was due mainly to higher discretionary assets, consumer loan growth, one more day in the quarter offset by the ongoing impact from lower rates and large corporate loans deductions.  

As many of you know, we managed the net interest income and not to the margin. That said, however, the net interest margin dropped 19 basis points from first quarter levels. After the compression was the impact of the lower rate environment on our overall balance sheet.  

The other half was the result of higher trading related asset levels within our global corporate and investment banks has added lower margin assets aimed primarily at investor financing activity, thus compressing the overall margin.  

We continue to remain asset sensitive which means net interest income would benefit from a rise in rate especially on the long end. However when possible, we also try to mitigate the damage of lower rates without materially impacting future earnings.  

As we anticipated the drop in rates during the second quarter, we increased the level of our discretionary portfolio versus March level by adding security and by adding mortgages. Second quarter interest rate is still very low. We sold certain residential mortgage loans to manage prepayment risk due to the declining interest rate.  

Those loan sales generated approximately $282 million in gains in the second quarter versus $242 million in the first quarter and are reported in other income. But we remain asset sensitive because we believe that as the year progresses, the market rate will in fact move higher.  

Response is continued improvement in the economy which we believe will be more evident as the year goes on.  

Consequently, the second quarter was probably the peak of our mortgage concentration. You should expect the discretionary portfolio to drop significantly from the second quarter level as we lower our exposure to mortgage backed security in the second half of the year.  

During this quarter we generated $296 million in security gains. We continue to reposition the discretionary portfolio to take advantage of interest rate fluctuation and to manage convexity risk. Despite these gains, unrealized appreciation in the securities portfolio increased $213 million to approximately $1 billion at the end of June.  

Now let's take a look at our individual businesses.  

Consumer and commercial banking earned a record $1.9 billion or 68% of the corporation's second quarter earnings, with a return on equity of 39%. This is an earnings increase of 18% from both a year ago and from the first quarter.  

Highlights included excellent account and deposit growth, strong fee generation driven by mortgage banking, by card income and by service charges, and gathering momentum in commercial lending and middle market investment banking.  

Productivity in terms of sales per associate increased 8% over the first quarter, more than 30% over last year. Productivity in terms of unit sales is up 14% and 32% respectively.  

In the second quarter, net new consumer checking accounts increased 317,000 bringing the 6-month total to 560,000. Driving this increase as it has for the past several quarters is increased sales promotion and strong account retention. Net new accounts so far this year has already surpassed last year's total checking account growth of 528,000.  

Active online banking customers continue to grow as well reaching 5.7 million customers. That's up 9% from the first quarter. 37% of active checking accounts are using the service. Active bill pay customers increased to 2.4 million customers, up 19% from the first quarter.  

As you know, online banking customers have a much higher retention level, carries significantly more balances, both deposits and loans with the bank. Online customers who use bill pay have even stronger retention characteristics.  

Overall customer satisfaction at the end of June as defined by the top two box scores, registered improvement of 5% from year-end levels, was up 14% from a year ago. Total mortgage banking fees increased 38% from the first quarter to $559 million driven by higher levels of home purchase and refinance activity.  

Originations during the quarter were $40 billion. That was up 24% from originations in the first quarter. Gains from secondary loan sales during the quarter were $136 million. That was double the amount in the first quarter.  

70% of our originations are retail which gives us a better opportunity to go beyond one product with the customer. Mortgages funded through loan solutions, our branched-based loan platform increased 40% over the first quarter to $12 billion. So far in 2003, a total of almost $21 billion or almost a third of our total production the first six months.  

Pipeline and mortgage loan applications was higher at quarter end versus the first quarter. We expect to see continuation of strong mortgage results going into the second half of 2003. Also impacting the trading account profit this quarter was a net reduction of the value of our mortgage banking assets and relative derivative instrument approximately $45 million.  

In looking at card income and service charges, a year-to-year comparison is better given the seasonality in those businesses. Card income increased 23% from a year ago, driven by new accounts, by higher outstandings for credit cards, and higher penetration levels for debit cards.  

Debit card purchase volumes grew 19% from a year ago while credit card volumes rose 9%. Total managed consumer card revenue including net interest income increased 29% from results a year ago. Card receivables on average grew 11% on a managed basis, driven by an increased marketing effort as well as greater sales generated through the branch network.  

Most of you know the interchange fees for signature debit card transactions will drop starting on August first. We estimate the impact on the third quarter due to this reduction before any assumption for volume growth. Incidentally we had about 11% growth from the first quarter to the second quarter, we estimate the impact will be about $30 million after tax.  

The service charges rose 7% from last year, benefited from higher levels of deposit fees due to new account growth and favorable repricing. Current success in card services and mortgage banking is very important to Bank of America because card and mortgage products are cornerstones of our relationships with the retail customer.  

Loan solutions in particular has dramatically improved the mortgage process for the retail customer, versus the wholesale on the correspondent channels. This should reduce the impact from future decreases in retail origination levels even after the current refi boom fades away.  

Average deposits in the consumer commercial bank represents the bulk of our core deposits were up 9% from a year ago and 4% first quarter, through our efforts to add new customers as well as higher escrow balance.  

Consumer credit quality came in as expected and reflected the seasonal increase in credit card chargeoffs. Managed credit card losses as a percentage of the portfolio increased 15 basis points, 5.74% on an annualized basis from levels a year ago and they were up 49% versus, 49 basis points, sorry, versus the first quarter.  

The increase in the first quarter is consistent with what we have experienced in the past. It is related with seasonal patterns with the national bankruptcy filing that tend to peak in the first quarter. Historically we have experienced some improvement in the percentage of chargeoffs in the second half of the year and we are looking for that to occur this year as well.  

Net losses in dollar terms increased in the first quarter for the same reason, as well as higher national bankruptcy filings. Net dollar losses year-over-year were due to continued growth, seasoning of the portfolio and the economic conditions.  

30-day and the 90-day delinquencies improved 19 basis points and 11 basis points respectively from the March end quarter. Including credit cards, consumer chargeoffs decreased 23% from the first quarter, and we're essentially flat with last year.  

As we have been saying since January, commercial banking is experiencing a pick up in activity versus the past couple years. If you remember, average outstanding commercial banking loans rose approximately 1% in the first quarter versus decreases in several of the previous quarters.  

In the second quarter, these levels increased another 1.7%, or approximately $1 billion. That's in line with our expectations for full year growth of between 5 and 6%. The increase this quarter in lending was fairly well spread throughout our entire franchise. Driven by loans to home builders and more general industry.  

New client growth during the quarter was the highest we have experienced in several quarters. Revenue increased 6% from first quarter results and one of the factors helping to drive this increase, greater activity in middle market investment banking and in public finance.  

Commercial banking credit quality continued to remain stable, as chargeoffs within the commercial banking area were up $10 million versus the previous quarter, but down $18 million from results a year ago.  

Commercial banking nonperforming loans dropped 5%. Levels last quarter and are down 34% from levels a year ago.  

Now, turning to the global corporate and investment banking a minute.  

Earnings in the quarter were $440 million. Return on equity of 18%. That was down about 9% versus the first quarter and about -- and down about 14% versus a year ago.  

Record of results however in investment banking and lower provision expense were partially offset by negative mark to market on credit default flop used to manage the economic exposure for the corporate loan portfolio.  

Investment banking revenue increased 24% from results in the first quarter with $462 million. And were up 4% versus a year ago.  

Bank of America securities continue to maintain overall market share and gained in areas such as U.S. equities, syndications mortgage backed security.  

Versus the first quarter, securities underwriting increased 47% to $293 million. Due to record results and high grade and high yield, as well as over a 40% pick up in equity through the continued strength in convertible and a renewed activity in the IPO market.  

In equity capital raising, first quarter momentum continued to increase throughout the second quarter with June being one of the best months ever for equity and equity linked products. [IN OCCASSIONS] improved 10% from the first quarter to $112 million. Advisory services, however, dropped 27% to $43 million.  

From a pipeline perspective, activity has picked up over the past several quarters, excuse me, over the past several weeks, indicating that perhaps CEOs are feeling more confident about future business conditions.  

Turning to trading, total trading related revenue for the second quarter was $661 million. That was a decrease of $250 million from the first quarter. Foreign exchange was down 8% to $124 million. And revenue from interest rate contract of $239 million was up 4% as customers continue to take advantage of low interest rate environments to recoupon their trade.  

Fixed income trading at $279 million was down $100 million in the quarter, as growth in high yield and high grade was offset by this negative mark to market impact credit default swap used to manage the corporate loan portfolio.  

Equities dropped 13% to $100 million. Commodities and other decreased $133 million due mainly to the adverse impact on jet fuel prices from the SARS outbreak.  

Corporate loans at period end in GCIB continue to drop. They decreased 14% or $7 billion from March levels to $47 billion on the level. Companies accessed the attractive debt market, certain relationships were [EXITED].  

Corporate credit quality in the second quarter improved. Large corporate net chargeoffs decreased to $172 million. $100 million less than the first quarter levels, down 20% versus a year ago. This is the lowest level of net chargeoffs for large corporate loans in almost three years.  

Large corporate nonperforming assets dropped $385 million or 14%, levels at the end of March. That was driven by nonperforming loan sales in the quarter of $336 million. The second quarter in a row that nonperforming loans have decreased.  

Inflows of new loans in the nonaccrual status have decreased from criticized levels and continue to spend lower. Now while we are encouraged by the credit quality trends in GCIB this quarter, we remain cautious going forward given the economic uncertainty and the continuing potential for one off event that would cause charge off or nonperformers to spike up in future corp.  

The third core business segment is asset management. Current equity hit 21% in the second quarter as net income more than doubled from results a year ago and it's up 3% from the first quarter.  

While much of the increase in revenue versus the first quarter was due to the seasonal impact of tax preparation fees, revenues still increased 2% after normalizing for the seasonality. Year-over-year, overall revenues are down less than 2% while average market evaluations are down more than 10%.  

Helping to stand the impact of the negative market, our increased sales of a [MARSICAL] related product and money market mutual fund. Expenses remained well controlled and are relatively flat with year ago, even though we have been consistently adding financial advisors the past five quarters.  

In addition to higher revenue, one other current metric that may indicate positive market direction is assets under management. At the end of the second quarter, assets under management were up $18 billion or 6% from the first quarter to $315 billion level.  

Approximately two-thirds of this increase is market related although the remaining third is increased investment flows, predominantly into equity and money market mutual funds.  

Our fourth and final segment is equity investment.  

Non-interest income was a positive $24 million compared to a negative $70 million in the first quarter and a negative $43 million a year ago. This is the first positive quarter since the first quarter of last year.  

Looking specifically at principal investing, cash gains were approximately $87 million and a positive mark to market adjustment of $40 million were partially offset by impairment of $107 million.  

Before turning to our outlook, let me say a few words about non-interest experience levels. Versus the first quarter, overall non-interest expense increased 7% or $341 million. Items of note during the quarter were as follows: First, higher professional fees due to increased litigation approval approximately $145 million, associated with pending litigation principally related to securities matters.  

Second, higher occupancy costs due to $32 million associated with vacating space in Tokyo and in San Francisco. And third, higher personnel costs resulting from increased cost of certain employee benefits, [INAUDIBLE and initiative related contract labor.  

Efficiency ratio for the second quarter was 51.7%. Kind of where we have been in the past several quarters. The long-term goal as you know is 50% or lower. With a little help from the economy we think we can get close to that target sooner rather than later.  

Now, while our outlook for the next few quarters is not materially different than what we said in April or for that matter in January, we do admit that credit quality cost and revenue generation have been better than our original expectations earlier in the year. On the other hand, interest rates have gone lower and although starting to turn up, we believe will stay lower longer.  

Our outlook is for eventual rising rates next year, if not later this year, and we have positioned ourselves to benefit from that occurrence. The second half of this year we expect net interest income on a quarterly basis to be relatively flat with the second quarter results.  

Our consumer businesses have done well on the past few quarters and that momentum should continue into the second half of this year. Mortgage banking activity should remain elevated over the next couple quarters given the low rate and the impact of our loan solution platform.  

Investment banking and equity investments should track market activity. The mix of our businesses and our revenue streams provides us with flexibility to handle changes in the environment and still meet our goal.  

Now you've already heard my thoughts on credit quality, but let me expand them just a little bit. Consumer and middle market appear stable. We expect that performance to continue depending on the economy.  

Large corporate credit quality is moving in the right direction and is the least predictable through the certain weak industries and region as well as sensitivity to swings in the economy. But clearly Bank of America enters the second half of 2003 with considerable momentum. Baring any sudden reversals in trend, we look forward to a successful rest of the year. With that, I'll stop and open up the floor for questions. Question?  

EDITOR: James Hance, Jr.: We beefed up the balance sheet materially. Let me repeat the question. Could we describe some of the actions we actually took in the discretionary portfolio? In addition to Kevin Stitt with me this morning, Al DiMolina was here. We will let Al do that. And Al, why don't you come up and do that? But you'll notice while he is walking up here that we had a substantial jump in the balance sheet. There were a couple of moves intra quarter but let me focus on the end of the quarter and the bulking of the balance  

AL DIMOLINA, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION: Part of that was an initial step to protect again the potential decline in rates which is an inflationary question which we believe, by the way, is over done, but the risks exists. So, we've been saying for some time now that we were asset sensitive and we would use some of our dry powder if we felt we had to. In it's in essence that's what we did.  

Now switching over to the period and balance sheet levels, [INAUDIBLE] the portfolio I think was up about $39 billion from the first quarter to the end of the second quarter. You can expect significant declines as a matter of fact, as we speak here, we've already had a decline in the portfolio greater than the increase second to third quarter. What we are doing now which is probably more important is moving out of the mortgage portfolio, into other instruments specifically swaps and options to reduce some of the negative convect due to the extension risks in mortgages or the prepayment risks in mortgages, but beside to the point. And to give ourselves the most flexibility we can get by being in the swap book which allows you to move without [INAUDIBLE] so again, beefed up during the quarter and then have reduced the balance sheet component as well.  

Another aspect of what we did during the quarter, which is important because you see a lot of moving parts and you can see the declining rates and rising rates and what we were doing when. Early in the quarter, we saw the risk of deflation coming. It moved from a back burner issue to a front burner issue from a lot of our analysis and discussions. And so we moved from higher coupon securities to lower coupons and loans which necessitated taking gains but was the right thing to do at the time to reduce the risk of declining rate. And that's why you've seen both sales and therefore gains but increase of overall level.  

I think it is too early to say. Repeat the question? The question was, with the large moves in the securities portfolio could we expect a similar size securities and home loan gain number in the third quarter vis-a-vis the second quarter and I think it's way too early to tell in this environment what that numbers. Let me tell you that obviously moving the [INAUDIBLE] portfolio down significantly here in the early part of the quarter there has been some influx. There may be losses.  

James Hance, Jr.: Sure. Kind of a two part question here. First, what about loan concentrations and exposures to the commercial and corporate area, and then secondly, how do we feel about the consumer and the consumer strength. First, let me refer you to page 20 of our supplemental handout. Which has industry non-real estate related exposures, if you will, for commercial loans and leases. That sort of shows you, sort of top to bottom, if you will, of the major industry concentrations that we have. A lot have come down in the more sensitive areas and some of course as you can see, have gone up as well, like in retailing. We still think that the exposure industries are kind of the same. In other words, the airlines are still -- which are included in our transportation still have some exposure. We think that clearly telecom, media and entertainment have some risk in it. We have been bringing those exposures down dramatically.  

There's another chart in here as well on the next page which is 21. Which talks about our exposures to such places like Argentina, Brazil, et cetera, which we have been bringing down materially both through reductions and chargeoffs.  

So I guess the way to answer your question is, some of the problem industries are still with us. By and large, our exposure across the board to them is lower. We are experiencing less losses than we did, but we don't think we are loss free. We have seen significant drops in our loss levels and in our nonperforming loans. We think that's all good news. Nothing new, sort of, popping up. In other words, no new problem industry has reared its ugly head.  

You didn't ask, but effectively the shared national credit exam results to the extent that we know and what they are in here. Our second quarter is all encompassing, if you will of shared national credit results. Which I think is positive. Even with that you saw reduced losses and performance.  

On the consumer side, we get a lot of questions about this, about is the consumer going to hang in there or what and what's going on. The consumer is still very strong. Clearly the initiatives taken to lower interest rates and reduce taxes are helping the consumer. We see very low loss rates across all categories of consumer loans. Including credit cards.  

Credit card losses, while for us jumped up this quarter which we think is somewhat seasonal, are still below our peer group and below average and we are comfortable with them. Did see a higher trend in bankruptcies and we do have larger losses in credit cards, but that said, the overall credit card portfolio strength is still very good. We saw a reduction in delinquencies.  

So we're comfortable that the consumer is managing, if you will, their debt. All the statistics show that they have more debt or greater leverage, if you will. But I think they also show that they're getting better debt coverage. Because those payments are lower, the interest rates are lower, et cetera and they have tended to refinance [INAUDIBLE] as you can see in our mortgage book. The pipelines all look really strong and the activity appears to be very firm and solid. That's pretty much franchise wide. We are not seeing any real weakness. Northeast being a little slowest, northwest [INAUDIBLE] in our world and that's predominantly because of the higher unemployment rate [INAUDIBLE] but overall, we think it's -- Yeah, Ron?  

RON, ANALYST: Two different places.  

James Hance, Jr.: Okay. The question is, so the mortgage related gains, where are they? The gains from selling mortgages, right? Mortgage loans. It is in other income and that was $282 million. The gains from freighting mortgaged back securities and things like that are in trading, that was 136. So they are in two different places, different relatives. Well, you are going to see some nice carry over. I mean, we actually think the first quarter was probably the low point. And it popped up some in the second. You are going to see nice carry over from loan growth that we are getting both on the consumer side and the [INAUDIBLE] side. And don't forget we are also going to be in the swaps and options. They come with a carry. Not dollar for dollar, but in terms of NII, thinking about it in an NII sense, that's right. The question is, we have kind of an $18 million increase negotiable CDs and other instruments what, from first to second quarter? Is that what it was? First to second quarter? It was pretty much conscious and as we were raising additional money to fund the balance sheet and represents really selling more product and more CD-related like instruments. Also, I think, although you didn't have it on your statistics, but foreign deposits went up as well. If we reached out for more funds and we took up commercial papers slightly from like 3 to $5 billion over the quarter to effectively help fund the $90 billion growth. Lori? Yeah. I'm sorry. They are doing what? Okay. Can I comment on kind of our strategy and what we are doing credit card. Credit card is very strong for us. The card business, as you know is a particularly important component both credit, debit, ATM, the whole thing. We have been, we've upped our marketing from last year all the way and have continued to keep it up in terms of selling new cards. We have also done a much better job of cross selling. The new mortgage holder, the new checking account, et cetera with card.  

You remember I rattled off some productivity statistics on sales and things like that. That has helped, if you will, ramp up our card level. So we've grown the card portfolio fairly nicely. It is still predominantly franchised and of course we have a couple of really great affinity programs which helps the credit statistics and helped the flow.  

At the same time, debit has increased dramatically. So the increase in debit both signature and PIN has been huge in terms of both fees and volume. So that has all helped us. So I would say our strategy is sort of the same. We haven't reached out and done anything particularly different. We're competitively pricing. We are not using much fees or rates to my knowledge. Is that right? We are not using much fees or rates or things like that. But pretty steady, pretty solid and gaining some momentum across the board. So we expect it to look better. We run it as a franchise product, not as a separate card business. We treat it very different.  

Good. Got any in mind? What? Well, the question is, you know, where are we on investment banking and how about gains and equities and how difficult is that? It is difficult, obviously. Our team is doing a very good job. A lot of new players. A lot of new investment in the equity side. And we have been particularly blessed with converts. We have done particularly a good job.  

We are also focused on the same industries we were focused on which means we can deepen our skill sets and deepen our penetration with customers and do better in those industries. Those industries tend to be more active. That's one of the reasons we pick them. It's going to help us I think raise our overall market.  

We are not designed to be all things to all people. We are not driven certainly by league table, but we are trying to be top market share in the industry with the customers where we are participating and playing. And have had some pretty good successes. And I've been very pleased really with their growth and their participation and ideals and success. Their execution ability is much better. [INAUDIBLE] ramp up our distribution.  

We had a lot of questions here earlier about why are the trading numbers all up? The answer is, we are doing a lot more with institutional investors. It requires us to carry a greater balance sheet. That's for distribution on the product side. We ramping them both up. A lot of additional resources.  

Well, I think we are going to have slow and steady improvements. I think that the skill set business we are attracting skill sets as well as anybody else. And as we continue to do that, continue to maintain profitability we will do it. It is a close, steady, but constant process and we do have widening financial strength and financial pace to draw off on which helps. So I expect continuing improvement all the way.  

Yes. Brock? Right. Two part question is, is the sequential drop in profit in TCIB related to the mark to market on credit swap. Where do we stand on hiring, et cetera in the various [INAUDIBLE]?  

The answer to your first question is yes. It was more than covered by the loss in the credit drop off which is quite large. And accounted for the drop in their bottom line. They had improvement, if you will across the board in investment banking. They had improvement in the credit chargeoff. That would have led them to a better bottom line, even with some of the drop in some of the trading portfolio. But the credit default swap was the major driver.  

The hiring is going very well. I mean, you read about it in the papers. It is a lot of top trading, a lot of increasing talent. Head count actually is down in TCIB. That's because we are pulling back in a lot of other areas to in fact fund some of the hiring. It is not increasing their expense ratio per se, but it looks that way and when the efficiency ratio because of the large mark to market.  

Questions in the room? How about on the phone?  

OPERATOR: In order to ask a question, please press star and the number one on your telephone keypad. The first question comes from Mike Mayo Prudential Securities.  

Mike Mayo, CFA: Good morning. How much was the mark to market credit to swap loss? We know it's more than $41 million by what you said but are you disclosing that?  

James Hance, Jr.: Yes, pretax $145 million.  

Mike Mayo, CFA: And the sales of NPAs, you said were $336 million for corporate. Would that be all in for the corporation?  

James Hance, Jr.: I don't think we did any -- correct me if I am wrong, Kevin, I don't think we did any commercial or -- really small. I think that was probably all in. I view it to be kind of half of the NPA drop, Mike.  

Mike Mayo, CFA: Okay.  

James Hance, Jr.: Okay?  

Mike Mayo, CFA: And since you have Al DiMolina there, what's the duration of the securities portfolio at the start of the quarter versus the end and how much did derivatives contribute to NII in this quarter?  

AL DIMOLINA: Hang on a minute. We'll find that for you. Duration went from on the available for help for sale went from 3.16 to 3.77. Okay? During the quarter.  

James Hance, Jr.: Okay.  

AL DIMOLINA: And do we know what the derivatives contributed to NII? We don't know. We'll get back to you on that.  

Mike Mayo, CFA: Okay, thank you.  

AL DIMOLINA: Sure.  

James Hance, Jr.: Other questions on the phone?  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH, LLC: Good morning, Jim.  

James Hance, Jr.: Hi, Nancy.  

NANCY BUSH: Were there any particular or special items in the credit card results? Were there any securitization gains or anything there or was this pretty pure?  

James Hance, Jr.: No, not a thing. I mean, we had not had the drop for the debit card fees yet cause that starts in August. No, it's pretty straight forward. No sales of any kind. A little bit more securitization coming back on the balance sheet. But that's pretty routine.  

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thanks.  

James Hance, Jr.: Is that it?  

NANCY BUSH: Yes.  

James Hance, Jr.: Wow. Other questions on the phone?  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.  

Betsy Graseck, CFA: Good morning.  

James Hance, Jr.: Hi, Betsy.  

Betsy Graseck, CFA: A quick question just on the mortgage banking fees. I'm wondering if you could break that out into origination servicing and any hedge gains that you might have had flowing through there, any changes in NSA or [INAUDIBLE] that could have been flowing through there as well.  

James Hance, Jr.: I'm not sure that I can. There would be no hedging gain. There would be -- I'm looking at the consumer column here. We had a slight loss in the trading account. That was the $45 million writedown of the MSR.  

Betsy Graseck, CFA: Right.  

James Hance, Jr.: And everything, and I don't know what the split is between -- do you know what the split is Kevin, between servicing and origination? A quarter? Did you hear that?  

NANCY BUSH: No.  

James Hance, Jr.: [INAUDIBLE] running about $60 million a quarter. If that's wrong, we'll get back to you with that. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the phone?  

OPERATOR: There are no questions at this time.  

James Hance, Jr.: How about from the room? Yes. The question is, what's the aggregate size of sort of everything, swaps, using notional amounts? Discretionary portfolio on and off balance sheets everywhere, the answer is about 270. Priced at the end of June and dropping.  

Ron? Both of them went up. The unrealized is now $1 billion on the discretionary portfolio up 2 something, whatever I said, 2 to $300 million. And the deferred lost number is like $1.4 billion and that's up -- pardon me. I'm sorry, deferred gain. Yeah. Deferred gain numbers like $1.4 billion and that's up also a couple hundred million.  

Yes. Yes, Brock? Good question. The question is, we've seen some great deposit growth and what do we think the sustainable growth is? Considering as rates go up we are liable to lose some of the money to other alternative investments. Most of the -- a lot of the deposits that we talk about, anyway, tend to be core deposits. Tend to come from customers and tend to be very sticky. They are not as susceptible to higher rates or disappearing.  

We think that most of that is occurring in the money market funds, Brock. And if you track our money market funds they are actually down fairly significantly from where they were in December or last September for instance. They have been continuing to drop. We think our sustainable, kind of ongoing year in and year out deposit growth numbers are going to be in the high singles. And that's going to come from new customers and growth in the franchise and just kind of the growth of the demographics of where we are. And also a lot of the initiatives surrounding our [INAUDIBLE] initiative will drive some of that.  

You might also have noticed that our non-interest bearing deposits came down a little. They came down about a billion dollars from March to June. We are not sure if that is seasonal or not. Sometimes they drop in the summer some as people tend to take that down a little bit. If we've had nice growth in checking accounts and customers, then that would tend to rise a little bit. So we'll see where that goes in September. It is running about $115 billion of non-interest bearing, just money on hand, and that's been particularly strong.  

We know that government money is down, The way the government is funding us now, but by paying fees as opposed to leaving cash on hand for all the services we provide for the federal government, so that is a shift and has [INAUDIBLE] implications. We'll see where it goes. But our deposit growth and track record has been very good. The team is very focused on it. We like deposits even though at these rates they are not very profitable. But we think over time that they will. Lori? You are jumping to get in.  

Well, thoughts on MNA. We are actually doing very well in MNA. It didn't show in the second quarter. Oh. Wrong MNA question. The question is, where are we on acquisitions and what are our thoughts on MNA? Well, we haven't done anything for five years, right? Isn't that about right? So we have been fairly calm. We are instant of course in asset management. We've talked about before. We have had no success there to date in ramping that up. But we are still very interested in that. And we think prices will come down.  

So we're hopeful that we'll see opportunities there as we go forward. We think our shareholders want us to be opportunistic if we see the right opportunity. So we are more vigilant than we were before in terms of looking for the right opportunity. It's going to be metric oriented in terms -- in needing to fit the franchise, fit the culture. It is what we are doing. It fits the business model and the shareholder value added. So we're particularly focused on meeting those criteria. And that makes it tough. There was not much going on, so we don't think we are missing much. But we are more open to the opportunity.  

Well, I was thinking broadly. But I mean, -- I don't see us changing our business model in terms of -- we like our business model. We like the ability to earn kind of the way we earn through different kinds of cycles. We are earning a lot of money in a very slow cycle. And I convert to say regional bank. And we attribute that flexibility and ability to sort of take what the market will give us. I think that holds true as the economy ramps up again.  

We don't want to put ourselves in a position where we have highly volatile earnings because we are a one trick pony. We don't want to do that. So that means we are very focused on the business model on rounding that out and deeping that as opposed to dramatically --.  

The question is, anything we can add on the shape of the yield curve and interest rates going forward? What is particularly helpful for us is higher rates. Like tomorrow morning. If not this afternoon. We have been waiting for higher rates for how long? Yeah, right. It's been more like two years and a week. So we'll see. That would be the strongest for us. We think we will actually get a nonparalleled shift when it comes. But we expect to see higher rates when the economy kicks in.  

This is a big week, right? Greenspan testifies this week and there is a lot of news this week. So perhaps that will be helpful. What?  

No, the short wedge going up would not help us. We would like to see that.  

What is it? The question is, what is the -- what is the -- our forecast for GDP for next year? I'm not sure. Do we have one for next year? Yeah, I mean, I did read what Mickey Levy had the paper when I was on vacation and it looks like he is slightly lower for -- than other. He's around 3% and I think the average is 3 1/2. He has come down some as the sort of the growth has moved out some, I think.  

But I would say that he still feels that we're going to see a higher second half than first and a stronger moderate upward movement. And we can see that in our data. We can see that. And I don't know that we have a credible one.  

Well, yeah, let me answer the question a little differently. We don't think the Feds are going to raise short-term rates anytime soon. We would love them to, we just don't think they will. It is kind of a two part answer to Steve's question earlier. We think the market will take rates up in the longer end first before the Fed moves. We would like to see the Fed move. But we don't think they will. We just came down. We think they will stay where they are all year. So they see real clear threats of inflation and real clear [INAUDIBLE]. Could be. Don't see that.  

Yeah. The question is, do you know how long before the Fed moves and how steep can the yield curve get? If you look at the yield curve from 3 to 20s, over the last 10 years they averaged 100 basis points and hit as low as zero. They are at 290 today. They are continuing to get deeper. The question, how steep can it get? I don't know, it can get a lot steeper I guess.  

The fact is, steepness actually helps us. And so that is not a problem for us. I think the Fed, if you look at -- just use averages, the Fed doesn't begin to tighten until 13 months after the unemployment rate has peaked. So first of all, use that metric, you have to assume that it's peaked, which I don't think any of us do. And then you have to wait 13 months. I think you could look on a Fed on hold for a very, very longtime. As part of the reason why when I spoke earlier I said, we shifted to mortgages -- derivatives. It is a swap to do some of the prepayment risk in case rates decline and the curve flattens. And then to have an asset there for a long period assuming the Fed's on hold. Once that changes, then we will move.  

A steeper yield curve certainly doesn't hurt us, it actually helps us. How steep can it get? I never would have thought it would get to where it has gotten and it's gotten here. So I wouldn't want to predict.  

The question is, will we feel margin compression as we hit a stable rate environment in a trading rate? The fact is partially true and that's why we are moving for maturity to alleviate some of that. But you're right, the lower -- the longer the rate structure stays low, the more compression that there'll be. But I think we are, at least over the horizon that we are looking at and talking about we are comfortable with. I mean, sure. The smaller the balance, the better the margin. The margin is going to get better, but [INAUDIBLE]. Okay. More questions? Anything else? Thank you, all. Thanks for your interest. See you next quarter.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020030730dz7e005f0
  


 HD
 Q1  2003  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
8,287 words
   PD
14 April 2003
   ET
01:30 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 KEVIN STITT, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF IR, BANK OF AMERICA: I'm Kevin Stitt, Investor Relations, before Jim Hance begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain forward-looking statements containing on financial results. These may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include among other things, changes in check conditions, in interest rates, market rates and prices, competitive pressures within a financial services industry and the regulatory requirements. Today's remarks include comments regarding interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis. Is non-gap performance measure. Used by management in operating the business. We believe that this presentation provides users a more accurate picture. For further information on these factors I would like to refer you to our SEC documents that we have filed previously. Let me turn the meeting over to Jim Hance, thank you. 

   TD
 JIM HANCE, VICE CHAIRMAN AND CFO, BANK OF AMERICA: Thank you and welcome to the quarterly earnings review. In January, when we reviewed our outlook for the year we expressed confidence that the momentum would carry over to the first half of 2003 without an over reliance on the economy in the short-term. For the most part, results were clearly in line for the expectations. Total revenue, rose 4%. Given by an increase of fee income of 7%. Versus the fourth quarter revenue was up 1%, also driven by a 7% increase in fee income. The length quarter revenue growth is significant because it occurred despite the normal season drop in revenues during the first quarter experienced during some of our consumer businesses and of course the impact of lower rates on net North Carolina. In the first quarter our consumer and commercial bank continued to demonstrate excellent growth and sales productivity as well as heightened activity. Any ongoing strength in credit card. The global corporate and investment bank had a good quarter. Capitalized on the fix income area. Overall the positives continue to grow and capital levels remain strong. We continue to repurchase shares and to pay a healthy dividend. Consumer credit quality held steady. Middle market improved and large corporate showed signs of improvement but continued to experience problems in certain weak industries. Non-performing assets dropped 4% from year-end. As a result of lower levels in the large corporate and commercial portfolios. Our risk positioning continues to be conservative from a credit perspective and of course, we remain highly liquid. This was a first quarter that we expensed stock options. It's had an impact of $26m before taxes. All of these factors resulted in earns of $2.4b or $1.59 per share on a fully diluted basis. That is an increase of 15% from the year ago quarter. When making comparison results between periods, I'll try to use a comparison that best conveys the actual trends in our various businesses. Some link quarter comparisons are misleading due to seasonality, that I referred to earlier, as well as several year-end items that distort that comparison. As I have done in the past couple of quarters, let me discuss net interest income for the company in total before turning to the individual business segments. 

 In line with our comments in January, net interest income on an FTE basis that Kevin mentioned in the quarter, decreased from the fourth quarter levels by approximately 3% or $176m. That was due to the impact of lower rates and two fewer days in the quarter. We continue to remain asset sensitive. That means net interest income will benefit from the rise in rates and we are more asset sensitive at the end of the first quarter than at the end of year. At quarter end the level of our discretionary portfolio decreased from year end. As a reduction of the swaps more than offset the additional mortgages and securities that you see on the balance sheet. 

 During the quarter we generated $273m in gains, as we continue to reposition the discretionary portfolio to take advantage of interest rate fluctuations and to reduce the mortgage and the mortgage back security exposure to rising rates. This risk reduction to rising rates also included purchasing additional interest rate caps and options. As in previous quarters we also sold some residential mortgage loans to manage pre-payment risk due to the potential of lower interest rates. These loan sales generated approximately $242m in gains versus $172m in the fourth quarter of last year. Let's take a look at the individual businesses. 

 Consumer and commercial banking earned $1.6b or 66% of the company's first quarter earnings. They had a return on equity of 33%. Highlights during the quarter, included excellent account and deposit growth, strong fee generation driven by mortgage banking and card income and service charges. Finally a slight pick up in the commercial banking loan portfolio. In the first quarter, net new consumer checking accounts, increased $243,000. That's almost double the increases of $127,000 the fourth quarter and $122,000 in the first quarter a year ago. Driving this increase was on going improvement in our ability to retain existing accounts and of course the popularity of the new "my access checking account." Active online banking customers continue to grow as well and now exceed the 5m mark. Up 57% from a year ago. While 2m customers pay their bills on line. That's up for than 100% from the 900,000 a year ago. As you know, on line banking customers have higher retention levels and carry significantly more balances, both deposits and loans within the bank. Online customers, who use bill pay, have even stronger retention characteristics. 

 Small business accounts continue to grow as the number of SBA loans grew almost three times the number that we had a year ago. Another important measure of growth we are tracking closely is product sale growth in our banking centers. The banking centers experience 7% growth year over year and 20% growth over the fourth quarter in many important product sales such as checking, savings and investments, credit and debit cards as well as mortgages. 

 Mortgage banking income at $405m almost doubled from the fourth quarter. Driven by higher levels of home purchase and refinance activity and the roll out of loan solution across the franchise. Originations during the quarter was $33b. Up slightly from the fourth quarter activity. And of course 67% was retail versus wholesale. 

 Total mortgages funded through our loan solutions product totaled $9b, versus 0 a year ago and up 80% from the fourth quarter results. Applications in March were at record levels we expect to see a continuation of strong mortgage results through the first half of 2003. Many of you saw that the mortgage bankers association has revised its forecast for this year's originations and now expects originations to top last year's record levels. If that turns out to be true the mortgage strength could extend into the second half of the year as well. Impacting trading profits this quarter was a net reduction, net of hedges of course, in the value of our mortgage banking asset by $114m. Much of the decrease was a result of faster repayment speeds and lower interest rates. 

 Turning to card, card income increased 18% from a year ago. Debit card purchase volumes remained strong, showing 20% growth from a year ago. Consumer credit card volumes were up 7%. Total managed card revenue including net interest income actually increased 18% from results a year ago. Card receivables on average grew 10% on a managed basis. Service charges across the bank rose 10% and benefited from higher levels of deposit fees from new account growth and favorable repricing. Average deposits in the consumer and commercial bank, which represents the bulk of our core deposits were up 7% from a year ago and 1% from the fourth quarter. Reflecting our efforts to add new customers and deepen the relationship of existing customers. 

 Consumer credit quality came in as expected and continued to remain stable. Managed credit card losses as a percent of the portfolio increased 26 basis points to 5.25% on an annualized basis for the fourth quarter, but still remains below levels from a year ago. This increase reflected seasonal factors and higher personal bankruptcies. 

 Net losses in dollar terms increased in the fourth quarter and from a year ago for the same reasons as well as due to the portfolio growth. 30-day, and 90 day delinquencies increased 24 basis points and 20 basis points respectfully from the prior quarter, but are flat compared to levels a year ago. 

 Excluding credit card remaining consumer charge-offs decreased from both fourth quarter levels and from results a year ago. As we told you in January, commercial banking started to show signs of life at the end of last year. That positive activity continued through most of the quarter. For the quarter outstanding commercial banking loans within CCB increased $840m or 1 1/2% from year end. That's ahead of our planned estimates. Commercial banking credit quality also continued to improve at charge-offs within the commercial banking area were down 45% from the fourth quarter and down a strong 40% from results a year ago. 

 Commercial banking non-performing loans also dropped 4% from levels last quarter and entered down 31% from levels a year ago. During the quarter approximately, $49m of commercial non-performing loans were sold. We focused on addressing our problems in middle market more than a year ago. Currently we feel we are positioned competitively to take advantage of the current market as it begins to recover. Turning to global corporate and investment banking which had a terrific quarter. 

 Earnings in the first quarter were $481m with a return on equity of 19%. That was up dramatically from fourth quarter results and up 5% from a year ago. Driving the increase in earnings from the fourth quarter was an improvement in trading account profits of 200% to $303m and a decrease from provision expense of almost 50%. Total trading related revenue for the first quarter was $911m. That's increase much 32% from the fourth quarter. Fixed income more than doubled to $379m due to the credit spreads tightening. Revenue from interest rate contracts of $230m was down 7%. Foreign exchange revenue was $135m down only slightly from the fourth quarter. Equities rose 49% to $115m and commodities increased to $52m. Investment banking revenue dropped 8% from results of the fourth quarter but was up 14% versus results from a year ago. In the midst of a challenge in environment Bank of America securities continues to gain market share in areas such as mortgage-back securities and convertibles while maintaining strong share and fixed income and syndicated loan products. - Versus the fourth quarter securities [inaudible] an increased 14% to $200m. That's due to a 45% increase in high grade and high yield offset by a 24% decrease in equity underwriting. Syndications dropped 22% in the fourth quarter to $102m, advisory services also dropped to $59m. 

 Market volumes in both high grade and high yield issuances increased significantly from fourth quarter levels. Equity and M and A activity continued to be slow confirming our expectations of a sluggish market for the foreseeable future. Although the pipeline in the high yield looks promising, long-term prospects in most of the other areas are hard to read. Issuers have shortened their time horizons considerably. Corporate loans, in the GCIB world, continued to drop and decrease 7% or $4bfrom year-end levels to a $54b level. If you believe the concept is the glass is half full from an economic perspective, corporate credit quality is showing signs of improvement. Large corporate charge-offs decreased to $272m, that was down about 50% from the fourth quarter levels, but relatively flat from a year ago first quarter. The mix of the charge-offs included those problem industries that we have been talking about for the past few quarters, those being airlines, emerging markets media and telecom. Losses were also incurred, during the quarter, in other income from write downs of approximately $31m related to partnership interest with leveraged leases to the airline industry. 

 We also had higher expenses in the quarter of approximately $40m associated with the repositioning of our business in South America. Large corporate non-performing loans dropped $262m or 9% from levels at year end. Driven mainly non-performing loan sales in the quarter of $230m. This is a first quarter and the past six that large corporate non-performing loans have decreased. Inflows of new loans in non-accrual status are at the lowest it has been also for the same six quarters. Criticized credits, decreased markedly from the prior quarter. While we were pleased, with the overall credit quality of this quarter and see progress in certain areas, we still remain cautious, especially in our outlook involving certain industries, airlines, merchant energy and telecom and media. As you know the economy is still in a precarious position and any weakness could hurt those companies that are currently showing hints of a turn around. We still see the risk of lumpiness in charge-offs and non-performing assets for the remaining part of the year. As before, we will not declare victory until it is clearly obvious in the numbers. 

 Our third core business is asset management. Return on equity exceeded 20% in the first quarter as net income was up 2% from results a year ago and up impressively from the fourth quarter of last year. A year-to-year comparison here is probably the best comparison because it shows while the market evaluations are down more than 20%, overall revenue and asset management is down only 3%. Helping to stem the impact of the negative markets are increased sales of Marico related product. Proprietary mutual funds in [inaudible] solutions in all of the channels. Expenses have been well controlled and are up only 2% from a year ago. Even though we have been consistently adding to our financial advisors for the past four quarters. Our goal in 2003, just as the accomplishments in 2002, is to increase our financial advisors by approximately 20%. So far we are on track through the first quarter. Assets under management at the end of the first quarter are down 4% from the fourth quarter to $297b. And they are down 6% from a year ago. Our fourth and final business segment is equity investments. Non-interest income was a negative $70m compared to a negative $59m in a fourth quarter and a positive 14m a year ago. Looking specifically at the principle investing component of equity investments, cash gains were approximately $45m in the first quarter. Offset by impairments of $77m and a further mark to market adjustment of $41m. 

 Liquidity events are scarce but we believe that a step up in activity will correlate with an improving economic picture. 

 When I spoke with you in January I mentioned we were looking for modest revenue growth in 2003, looking for fairly tight expense control and looking for credit quality being driven by uncertainty in the economy with a potential for lumpiness in a few problem industries. This is still our outlook. We believe that once the geopolitical uncertainty is further resolved, the economy will slowly gain momentum. Our outlook is for eventual rising rates later in the year. We have positioned ourselves to benefit from that occurrence. The impact of lower rates was reflected in our numbers in the first quarter. We believe that quarterly net interest income for the rest of the year will be up modestly. Our consumer businesses have done well in the past few quarters and that momentum should continue also for the rest of the year. We feel that attractive results in mortgage banking will continue over the next couple of quarters given low rates and the impact of our loan solutions platform. Investment banking and equity investments should track market activity, however while we expect some pick up in activity, we don't expect the pick up to be robust. And you've already heard my thoughts on credit quality. Again, we expect consumer middle market will appear stable and stay stable. We expect that to continue if not improve as the economy improves. We expect the large corporate credit quality is moving in the right direction, but is the least predictable due to the event risk and the sensitivity and swings in the economy. However, we are dealing aggressively with problems that have been identified and we intend to be just as aggressive in dealing with new issues as they arise. With that let me open the floor to a few questions, be happy to respond to questions. 

 OPERATOR: If you would like to ask questions for today's conference call please press star one on your touch tone phone. Once again to ask a question for today's B100 call please press star 1 now on your touch tone telephone. Thank you. 

 JIM HANCE: We are currently at 52%. We think we'll get to 

 50% as soon as we start to see interest rates rise and pick up in net interest income. Net interest income has been sluggish and has been hurt dramatically by the lower interest rate environment. That has had a one for one of almost impact on our efficiency ratio. As that starts to go up and we hit that "sweet spot" of interest rates levels, you will see us achieve our target of 50%. We have been very pleased with where we have been on efficiency ratio with the current revenue environment. We attribute that to the strong productivity work that is going on at the bank to the excellent fee growth we are getting and to the inherent leverage that we have in the large fixed-cost operation. We are still not satisfied with our current levels. Clarence? (inaudible -- no audio) 

 JIM HANCE: a couple of questions, all dealing with the consumer, first is what are we seeing in a regional basis for a trend basis on a regional geography level of consumer growth, consumer activity, consumer, credit quality and secondly where are we on our thinking on reserving for the consumer? On the first part, we are seeing what I would call real stable, real solid consumer business everywhere. The slight weakness would be the upper northwest, where the unemployment rates, in our world, is the highest. That's the highest of our franchise areas. That's the slowest area on the consumer front. Otherwise it has been very steady and consistent. That has been between card, deposits, and checking account growth and mortgage. We have also been pleased with credit quality. The credit quality on card has been phenomenal. You are seeing a dollar loss go up because of the size of the portfolio and the maturity of the portfolio, but you are seeing very stable charge-off ratios. . That is good news for us. We have seen personal bankruptcies pick up and we have seen a slight pick up in delinquencies, but we think that's more season than it is anything else. By in large, I mean, other than say the northwest where we operate, the unemployment rates are okay. It used to be that the 5.8% was considered full employment and now of course it is not. We've been very pleased with the stability of the consumer. On your second point is we are planning no changes to our reserving methodology and we are fully FFEIC compliant in every little way you can think of that they keep changing. We'll expect to maintain that, but there's nothing on the horizon that would indicate a change in that. David? 

 JIM HANCE: Do I shop at sears? Is that a question? Sears, somebody asked me that this morning, we never confirm what we are looking at, but every investment banker in the world shows us whatever they have. You can assume that we look at most opportunities and I'll leave it at that. That one is out there, we like our credit card business. We would like to expand our credit card business. Have yet to buy a credit card portfolio and we are particularly careful as we look at that as we look forward. Ron? 

 JIM HANCE: signatures and pens -- 

 JIM HANCE: The question is comment on all of that. The question was, where are we on the Visa/Master card suits and the foreign exchange? We are really like you and we are watching it closely. We think it has a long way to run before it goes to trial and through appeals. We think that undoubtedly somewhere in this process you are going to get a closer coordination or a coming together, if you will, between signature fees and pen fees and the debit card. That's what triggered it. That's probably right. We are seeing huge growth in debit card. We had an 18% growth in terms of debit card fees. We would expect that to continue. While we also expect those fees to come down, we don't think it is going to hurt us dramatically. What does that mean? I don't know what the number is, we'll run somewhere around $800m a year, this year in debit card fees. If you just play with numbers and look at some of your own reports out there about what people see the impact will be. We'll have some impact, perhaps, that would be negative which is more than likely off set by volumes or various other things. We think this has a long way to go. If there is some whopping massive settlement or something, does it downstream? I don't know. You know currently none of the banks or partners or whatever you want to call us in Visa and Master card, the association of members have been added to any of the litigation. There's no direct way of getting there? Do they pay for it? Do we pay for it? Who knows, does it not go that direction? It is a long way to go. We are doing the same sort of "what ifs" that you guys are and monitoring it as we go through. We do not believe it has a material impact on us. 

 JIM HANCE: The question is can I elaborate more on merchant energy, telecom energy? Not really. I think a couple of things, one, we can continue to believe that they are stressed industries. Two, as each day goes by, one or more gets resolved, which is handy, not industry but individual company within the industry. That's good. You saw several get resolved this quarter and I'm sure the second quarter will be no different. Three, and the good news is that we have not seen any new industries come into this category. In other words we are still dealing with some of the old ones and as time goes by either we have taken more charge-offs or there's less to go. In terms of what we have for exposure. We don't identify it directly. You can get it off the various tables within categories and I'll leave you to do that. You will that in your supplement. We really don't talk about the individual ones. We are continuing to recognize them and when we think we need to and we did more this quarter. 

 JIM HANCE: Good question, on the investment securities book what is the average duration in yield? We have brought the duration down to three, slightly over three from slightly over four at the end of the year. And our yield is 5 something. It is 509. Our team led by Al and Ian, had done a spectacular job with our balance sheet over the last two years. We are very nimble, we move a lot every quarter, which is what is generating some of the gains and some of the repositioning. We are just keeping up with it. We also have a lot of caps on the mortgages because we see that margin, if you will, disappearing as rates go up. We are now over 100 billion of caps and things on the mortgage portfolio. You will see us reduce that as -- not reduce the cap but reduce the exposure as we continue to go forward. Which is part of the question. 

 JIM HANCE: That's a great question. Do you see us as being high capital ratios and high reserves, how do we view ourselves here in terms of capital reserves and -- yeah, oh, we actually think we are overcapitalized. We have purposely stayed that way through what we consider to be uncertain and slow economic times. Do you remember we told you we would let them rise and we did. We have been buying back- shares, but the earnings have been outpacing that. Importantly, what we have done very aggressively, is we reduced our risk related assets. That's had a dramatic impact on the regulatory capital. That has freed up so much regulatory capital. We are continuing to do that. We are comfortable with our current capital levels, we think it gives us some flexibility. We have been re-investing in our businesses, which is actually why you have not seen our efficiency ratio drop further. We have been reinvesting aggressively, investment banking, skill sets, in products and some systems, in people and asset management. We are putting in 500 branches over three years, which is a sizable investment. We have been doing a great deal of investment and will continue to do that with our capital. We are also opportunistic, we have done a couple of little things like program trading and a few other small things like that which have rounded out some of our products and will be opportunistic to opportunities that come along. On the reserve front. Our reserve has been real stable. We have been matching charge-offs with provision, we'll continue to do that. As each day goes by and as non-performing assets drop, or as our corporate portfolio drops, we end up with an excess reserve. What do we do with that? I don't have a clue. I think we'll grow into it with our consumer portfolios and a little bit with our commercial portfolio over time. It is like touching the third rail. You can't touch it even when you need it. It is kind of useless, but we have it. The unallocated still runs about 18% kind of number and that will be sort of in the that range, I think. You will see, we have not done any securitizations and do not intend to. You will see it be absorbed as the consumer books rise and the economy comes back a little. 

 JIM HANCE: If the market forecast for lower rates and if we do have lower rates that would impact us. We are asset sensitive but we are sort of conservatively asset sensitive. We've hedged that bet in case we are wrong. We actually think that the current level of rates and current economic activity are out of sync and real rates of being 0 is unrealistic. We also think that as the uncertainty goes away hourly on Iraq and a few other things that the middle market businesses will start to invest and start to do things. We think we'll get a fiscal stimulus of some amount. We are not in the camp clearly of material drop in rates going forward. We are exposed slightly. If rates do go down, that would have an impact. We never make big bets one way or the other. I can do an exact if I can find the page. If rates do, in fact, go down 100 basis points, from here, we would be exposed about 4%. Net interest income assuming we did nothing and had no offsets. The off sets of course would be security gains coming out of our ears. They would be huge. Nonparallel shift, the number is slightly different. As a practical matter we are so dynamic, it is not going to happen. 

 JIM HANCE: In problems? It is possible, good question. Two things. What was the first one? I lost the first one. Commercial real estate. The question is what do we see on commercial real estate first and then about deposit flows with lower rates. On commercial real estate we read the same thing you do. We've been, for a bank our size and for a regional bank or whatever you want to call us, we are relatively light in commercial real estate. We have long memories from '89, '90 and '91 where we got all of these banks. We have been really careful with it. We are seeing, knock on wood, no slippage there, yet. We do read about higher vacancy rates on office buildings and things like that. We are being very cautious about our portfolio. In terms of why we think we are not seeing it, we think it is because of very heavy equity component that is currently in the real estate world and the amount of money flowing in. There is a huge amount of money still flowing in, coming out of the stock market and other places for opportunities. I sit on a [inaudible] board and the cap rates have come down dramatically, in terms of apartment rates. That is helping, what might be some chinks in the real estate. We don't see it and have not seen it. We thought we would have seen some in northern California or in the northwest and we have not seen it there. We are cautiously optimistic that we'll be fine with that. On your second point, which is deposit flows. We have had really good deposit flows. We argue whether it is 7% or 9% or something like that. That depends on whether you can't core deposits. We are seeing is very stable core deposit growth. We are seeing some foreign deposits leave, interestingly and we are not paying up for them at all. We are seeing a mix. When you look at total deposits we are seeing a mix changes here. We are also seeing the money market funds going down. Some of them have gone into deposits, but not a lot. They tend to go somewhere else. Real estate or something else. The deposit growth is primarily coming from people being a little bit more conservative and the growth from our new checking accounts and more people leaving more money with us. Coming heavily from the online banking and a few other things that tends to be a little bit more sticky. It has been very strong and very good and the rates are very low. We expect that to sort of continue. Question from the telephone. 

 OPERATOR: We have a question from Lori Applbaum with Goldman Sachs. 

 LORI APPLBAUM, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi Jim. What is your senior managements overall view of the universal banking model for BMA? How much you are you currently investing in the BMA securities? And the overall goal of the investing? 

 JIM HANCE: we are a big proponent of the universal banking model. We have seen it be very successful for us. Customers like it a lot. We are actually getting more push from the customers then we are pushing on the customers. That's because in many cases they are cutting down the number of providers they are dealing with. And are looking for basket pricing or various other types of activities. The universal banking model has been very good for us. I think Citi would agree with the same comments. It is helping us both. In terms of investments in BAC, we are actually making quite a few, but we are self-funding them. We are pulling back in some of our Latin America and European activities and sort of repositioning those dollars and skill sets and teams here. We have had new management in the equity platform that has had a dramatic impact on first quarter results. We continue to feed the debt platform, which is doing very well, and we had a purchase in program trading and a few other things. Overall GCIB expenses have come down. When I say we are investing we are self-funding it within GCIB. Our goal is not to get out in front of revenues, but rather match them as we have opportunities and as we see opportunities going forward and I think we are doing that very well. 

 LORI APPLBAUM: which sector groups do you see your greatest opportunity in terms of lending expertise? Merchant energy once the economy comes back and those companies may be issuing equity? 

 JIM HANCE: We have not really changed our industries that we've focused on. We focus on about 8. We stay with those 8. Have not dropped any or expanded them. The real activity, currently, is heavy in some of the restructures you've mentioned in media telecom and a little bit of the cable. We are also seeing a lot in health care. We are seeing a lot there. That's been very active. Some of the general industry categories have been a little bit more active then we would have thought. We do quite a bit in financial services. The ones we've focused on are the ones we are staying with. Merchant energy is also picking up some. We are trying to pick up the industries where we see activity and therefore have a better shot at revenue growth. Okay? 

 LORI APPLBAUM: Thanks. 

 JIM HANCE: another telephone question. 

 OPERATOR: we have a question from Mr. Brock Vanderbleek of Lehman Brothers. 

 BROCK VANDERBLEEK, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks Jim, if you could just drill down a little bit in terms of commercial loan guidance. Your comments were interspersed throughout your presentation. 

 JIM HANCE: Sure, for the first time in two years, commercial loan, middle market commercial loan had growth. We had mentioned last fall and certainly in the January guidance that we expected commercial loans to effectively bottom out and start to turn. We started to see that. The pipeline that was in place in late fall and through the holidays has actually been filled. There's a new pipeline being created. It is slower than it was last fall, but still there. We are looking for growth in the commercial portfolio this year, like we mentioned. Of about 6% plus. Corporate loans are different. Corporate loans we are still reducing those corporate loans in the corporate book. They came down 7% in the first quarter. They will continue to come down and stabilize. We would like to increase the velocity or the ins and outs and as the economy picks up we'll start to see that. Other than the middle market loans you will not see corporate loans go up, but you will see consumer loans go up. Does that help? 

 BROCK VANDERBLEEK: Yeah that helps. Finally, if you could circle back to your spread income guide, as you indicated flat to modestly higher. What is your level of conviction assuming we don't get much more of a pick up then we are seeing right now in the commercial side? 

 JIM HANCE: That's how we are looking at it, we feel pretty good about the rest of the year on net interest income for us because the various actions we've taken in the last several months to reposition after the rates were lowered in the late fall. We also knew that this would be our low point, if you will, the first quarter would be the most difficult on the spread because of the roll through of the last fed reduction. Another fed reduction would change that. Currently we are not forecasting that. 

 BROCK VANDERBLEEK: Okay, thank you very much. 

 JIM HANCE: Another question? 

 OPERATOR: We have a question from Betsy Graszick of Morgan Stanley. 

 BETSY GRASZICK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Just one quick question. You had mentioned that your higher capital levels are giving you a lot of flexibility. [inaudible] Looking at the various assets that are out there, one thing that comes to mind is potentially sub prime assets. Several years ago you had reduced, quite dramatically, your exposure to sub prime, but in this environment with the higher capital levels that you have, I'm wondering if you would rethink that strategy at all? 

 JIM HANCE: We wouldn't? Sub prime is not on the list. We've had all of the fun in sub prime we want. Interestingly, our sub prime we had was wholesale, which was probably the worse sub prime you can have. That's not even on our list. Why are you selling one? 

 BETSY GRASZICK: Well, you mentioned sears earlier and there is clearly a sub prime there. 

 JIM HANCE: Exactly. That's a problem. 

 BETSY GRASZICK: Is there anything you could talk about regarding what is on the list? 

 JIM HANCE: No. 

 BETSY GRASZICK: Okay thanks. 

 JIM HANCE: Steve? 

 JIM HANCE: It is a really great question. What do we see in the mortgage business and what is the transition and what is going on there? The mortgage business currently on one hand is very robust. And that is sheer production and sheer refinanced volume. $33b in the first quarter. That's very heavy, for us, the good news is that 2/3 is retail. That's regenerated, not something that we are buying from somebody else. A third is that it is wholesale and we do no correspondence, and the reason I make that point, is it is relevant to what I am going to say as we move forward. Now the negative of that has been the constant write down of the mortgage service and intangible. Another 100 and 14 or 15 some number, this quarter again. Down from over $3b to now like 1/6 or 1/7 kinds of number in the last year. Something like that. The cost of servicing, if you will, jumps because you are forever putting loans on and off the system. You like that nice annuity that cranks along but set up time and pay down time is expensive. Now, what another equation here is we wanted to make the mortgage product more customer- friendly, which is where our loans solutions platform came into being roughly a year ago. In the first quarter we did $9b. That's a branch-based ease of mortgage product. Everything is easier about it. What we see going forward is this. It looks like it is further out than we would have thought. We thought it was going to be quicker but we think it is going to happen. You will see the volumes drop. Mortgage volumes just drop. For us, we expect less of a drop then you would see in the industry. Why? We are more retail and we are not correspondent, that's particularly important. Third, our loan's solutions product is ramping up and the loan solutions product is franchised based, branch-based ease of operation and we are in a good part of the world. You are going to get new home buyers and first-home buyers. While the volume will drop, we think the profits, if you will, stay up. Another thing that will happen is you will not have that PMSR now. As soon as rates start to go up and the prepayments lengthen out, then that thing flips. Because that's a pencil calculation monthly. That dynamic changes and you don't have that drag. Importantly, the annuity flow of the servicing business, which is a $300b for the portfolio gets more profitable because you do not have the turn. We expect a lower scale, a drop in the scale, a jump in sort of the efficiency level of it. Not productivity, but the profitability of its with a lot of moving parts. We like that business. It is such a key, core business for us. It is the tie for the most part with a lot of our customers. That is an avenue for us. We are also better at delivering cards and checking accounts and all the rest of the stuff to these customers. We think that is a really good business going forward. All of the discussion and euphoria that everybody is talking about is going to change. It will change character as it goes forward. Does that help? 

 JIM HANCE: Well, I mean the question is, how much of a volume decline can we handle? I don't know the answer to that exactly. I can tell you in our planning for this year, we thought we would see a sizable volume decline, which is we have not seen incidentally and our profit plan and for mortgage and everything, was up. So, I mean, that's because of loan solutions we are counting a lot on loan solutions and that is coming on faster than we would have expected. Does that help on mortgage? Don't forget, though, the fee line of mortgage for us, putting aside the portfolio and balance sheet should stuff is roughly 5% of the total. That's all it is. It is roughly 5% percent of our quarterly revenue number. Not counting the spread on the mortgage and the pipeline and everything else. It is very important but it is not half our business, is my point. Telephone call. 

 OPERATOR: We have a question from Ruchi Madan of Smith Barney. 

 RUCHI MADAN, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hi, Jim, you've never disclosed your airline exposure. We've estimated that the domestic carrier exposure may be in the range of a billion dollars, can you comment on that and also can you tell us if the charge-offs this quarter address the airlines in any major way? 

 JIM HANCE: We like our policy of not disclosing airline, we are going to stick with that. I would have no comment on the billion. Yes, we took more airline exposures this quarter both in charge-offs and in other income. We caught it two places. Okay. 

 RUCHI MADAN: Thanks. 

 JIM HANCE: Another telephone call? 

 OPERATOR: We have a question from the Tom McCannlis from KPW. 

 TOM MCCANNLIS, ANALYST, KPW: Good morning Jim. A couple of questions, could you share with us, the size of your mortgage banking pipeline specifically, the loans for sale in your balance sheet. How long do you think -- it sounds like you are thinking it could last through the third quarter. 

 JIM HANCE: I don't know the number on the pipeline that's not what is on the balance sheet. That would be something different. 

 TOM MCCANNLIS: Loans for sale is what I mean. 

 JIM HANCE: Kevin is going to look it up. The answer is, our pipeline is so strong we think it will go clearly into the third quarter unless it changes automatically here. . We would not have thought that Tom. We thought it would start to slow before now, last year, put it in perspective we did $88b of volume for the year, this year we did $33b in the first quarter. Loan solutions is in there where as last year it was much smaller. We think it will go a while. If the mortgage banker's association is right then it can go the rest of the year. 

 TOM MCCANNLIS: I'm just trying to get a handle on how much the up tick and the origination of [inaudible] is ballooning your balance sheet. 

 JIM HANCE: You have to separate that. The pipe is not that big. It just goes right through. We are holding on to mortgage backs or buying mortgage backs as part of our asset liability management. Then we have caps. I would not look at that to try to get what you are after. . If we can figure out the volumes, but don't look at the balance sheet to try and figure that out. 

 TOM MCCANNLIS: An unrelated question, could you share with us the expectation for deposit growth in the consumer commercial bank this year? 

 JIM HANCE: It has been really good. So far it is running 7 plus%. That has weakened. That is partly driven by the new checking accounts and the rate levels. We would expect it to stay really strong all year. We are now running 94% loans and deposit down from 99%. It is outpacing the loan generation. We would expect that to continue. 

 TOM MCCANNLIS: Okay, then finally, at the end of the balance sheet, within shareholders equity, there was a little bit of movement around the other [inaudible] income and the other categories is there any way you could shed light what was driving the reductions and other comprehensive income? 

 JIM HANCE: It is a function of our reposition of the balance sheet and changing the swaps and those unrealized gain numbers. The thing changed dramatically as we repositioned the balance sheet and as we moved in and out of securities during the quarter. So, that is it wholly. That was like a billion dollar swing. Big number. 

 TOM MCCANNLIS: Okay, Jim, thanks. 

 JIM HANCE: Sure. 

 Question from the phone? 

 OPERATOR: We have a question from John MacDonald from UBS Warburg. 

 JOHN MACDONALD, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Hi Jim, on the expense line, I'm wondering if you have additional cost savings that you would expect from the six sigma program this year and what is your Denova branch expansion plans are this year? What geographies are going to be of greatest interest to you? 

 JIM HANCE: Sure, on the first one, we are getting six sigma benefits constantly, that's allowing us to have the efficiency ratio improvement while still investing. You are not going to see dramatic drops in gross expenses or just expenses because we are investing in a great deal of advertising and brand and we are doing some outsourcing and we are building these branches. We would hope to get 150 or so up and running and that's a stretch, but we would hope to do that. They are in the top 25 markets that we operate in, but not particularly evenly spaced and they are in Chicago. That's where we are doing them in year. 

 JOHN MACDONALD: Anything in the northeast in terms of the branches? 

 JIM HANCE: No northeast. 

 JOHN MACDONALD: Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: There are no further phone questions at this time. 

 JIM HANCE: Okay, how about here? 

 Okay, thank you very much, see you next quarter. It is a beautiful day here in New York. A lot of earnings announcements here today, have a good time.--- 0 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   AN
Document fndw000020030414dz4e000b8
  


 HD
 Q4  2002  Bank  of  America  Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
9,651 words
   PD
15 January 2003
   ET
02:30 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Please stand by, the Bank of America quarterly earnings call is about to begin. 

 KEVIN STITT, INVESTOR RELATIONS, BANK OF AMERICA: Good morning. I am Kevin Stitt, Bank of America Investor Relation. Before Jim Hance our Chief Financial Officer begins to comment, let me remind that you this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions, in interest rates, market rates and prices, competitive pressures within a financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirement that may affect our business. For further information on this these factors, I would like to refer to you Kerr present press releases and SEC documents we have filed previously. 

   TD
 For that, let me introduce you to Jim. Take care. 

 JIM HANCE, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, BANK OF AMERICA: Thanks, Kevin. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our review the fourth quarter and a belated happy new year to everyone and thanks for your interest. 

 My remarks this morning will cover two areas. First, a summary of the results of the fourth quarter with some elaboration of the full year, and second, a summary of our outlook for 2003. As always, I realize you are anxious to get to the numbers, but I would be remiss in not recognizing the performance of our people at Bank of America for their efforts in meeting many of the goals we have laid out for them over the past two years. In the face of some fairly strong economic head winds, our associates achieved not just attractive financial results but succeeded in building very visible momentum toward becoming a more customer-focused company. These efforts and the discipline established in our various businesses are, in fact, laying the groundwork for even better days ahead. So thanks to all of them for a lot of hard work. 

 Now reported earnings for the fourth quarter were $1.69 per diluted share or approximately 2.6 billion. Included in the earnings was the impact from a settlement from the IRS that resulted in a reduction of previously accrued taxes and was highlighted in a press release on December 23rd. That impact equaled $488 million for approximately 32 cents per share. Also highlighted in the release and affected earnings as well was a higher provision for credit losses. Provision and chargeoffs during the quarter were 1 now, $165 million versus $804 million in the third quarter. Total revenue for the fourth quarter increased approximately 3% from the third quarter, as all four of our business units produced increases. Which I can't remember having happened for a while. 

 Overall expenses rose 5% for the corporation from the third quarter levels, due mainly to severance charges of $128 million and some seasonal volume-related expense increases like in professional fees. Total credit-quality cost continued to remain high for the entire year, in line with our comments to you last January. Total commercial net chargeoffs were down 8%, full year to full year. Managed consumer net losses were up 5% after adjusting for business exit costs in 2001 as a result of a larger credit card portfolio in 2002. Excluding credit card, remaining consumer net chargeoffs fell year to year. 

 Average core domestic deposits are up more than 3% from the third quarter, and $26 billion or more than 8% from a year ago. Liquidity and funding continue to improve as the loan and domestic deposit ratio ended the year at 97% versus 99% at the end of 2001. And 126% two years ago. Period end book value of $33.49 per share rose 8% from last year. And the preliminary Tier 1 ratio closed the year at 8.22%. During the quarter, we repurchased ten million shares bringing total repurchases to 109 million shares for the whole year. 

 Now before we talk about the individual businesses, let me discuss for a minute net interest income and yield. In the fourth quarter, on an FPE basis, net income rose $72 million while the net income yield compressed nine basis points. Driving the increase in net interest income were higher levels in discretionary portfolio, rating assets, and core funding, somewhat offset by the impact of lower rates. As we mentioned in December and previously, we added to the discretionary portfolio during the quarter in order to offset the impact of lower rate. The average net swap book position increased approximately $17 billion during the quarter. While the average securities portfolio increased $7 billion. 

 Now the net interest yield compression was driven by higher levels of discretionary assets, accompanied by compression in the overall deposit-gathering business. Now during the quarter, we generated approximately $304 million in security gain, as we repositioned the discretionary portfolio to reduce [con vex tee] risk and to take advantage of fluctuation. Similar to the third quarter we sold full mortgage loan, CF1O managed prepayment risk due to the lower interest rate. These loan sales generated approximately $172 million in gains in the fourth quarter versus about $190 million in the third quarter. 

 At the end of the third quarter, the market value appreciation of our securities and swap book increased $1.6 billion from the end of the third quarter. To about $4.7 billion at the end of the year. 

 Now let me say a few things about our individual businesses. As it has all year, the consumer and commercial bank continues to be the engine that drives our progress. The consumer and commercial bank earned $1.6 billion or 80% of the corporation's pretax earnings in the quarter, with a return on equity of about 36%. This is an earnings increase of 4% from the third quarter and 21% versus results in the fourth quarter a year ago. After adjusting for the amortization in 2001 of goodwill. Revenue is up 3% from the third quarter and 10% from a year ago. Continued operating leverage improvement lowered the efficiency ratio below 50%. 

 All year long, we have had success in growing accounts. In the fourth quarter alone, net new checking accounts increased 127,000 bringing the year-to-date total edition to approximately $528,000. The number of active online bank customers now approaching five million which represents a growth of 63% for the year. And importantly, probably more importantly, our active Bill pay customers have grown more than 100% in 2002 to 1.8 million customers with Bill payment of nearly eight billion this quarter. 

 The increase in checking accounts is driven by greater customer satisfaction. Focused marketing, and new products. Customer satisfaction as defined by the top two box scores continue to grow in the fourth quarter and for the full year, represented an increase in satisfaction score of 10.4%. An important factor driving this increase has been a 24% reduction in errors reported by customers. Fee income in the consumer and commercial bank increased 5% over the third-quarter results and 11% versus the fourth quarter a year ago. Service charges rose 4% from the third quarter and 9% from last year. Card income increased 7% from the third quarter and 17% from last year, reflecting higher interchange fees and other fee income from both debit and credit card. 

 If you look at total revenue on a managed basis, including net interest income, card services revenue, and including net North Carolina, cards service revenue increased 16% to almost $5 billion in 2002, from results of the previous year. Now mortgage banking income also continued to remain high at $206 million driven by high levels of refinance production. For the year, originations was up 33% to $88 billion of origination. As we continue to focus on direct-to-customer business. 

 Loan solutions is becoming an increasingly important tool for our branch associates in generating mortgages. In the fourth quarter, total mortgages funded through loan solutions were double the funded amount in the first nine months of 2002. Last quarter we mentioned to you we were starting to see some stability in commercial banking. Specifically there are our middle market customer base with sales between $10 million and $500 million. While we made the point we weren't calling it yet a trend, we feel more comfortable now that the middle market is, in fact, exhibiting signs of improvement. The first seven months of 2002 reflected a sharp decline in business flow. In fact, loans dropped about 9%. From August through November, this sector exhibited some stability. 

 In December, we started to see signs that business flows are, in fact, up. We believe that 2003 will shall a continuation of December and are looking for middle-market loan growth this year of approximately 5%. Credit quality costs for the consumer and commercial bank as a whole reflected some seasonal uptick but continued on remain well below results from a year ago. Net chargeoffs in commercial banking increased $36 million from the third quarter but are down $98 million from results a year ago. Commercial banking nonperforming loans are down both from last quarter and from a year ago. The managed credit card portfolio was performing quite nicely and within expectations in light of the current economic environment. Managed losses are flat with the third quarter and rose $35 million from the fourth quarter of last year. And this was in line with portfolio growth. 

 The 30- and 90-day delinquency rates moved up from the third-quarter levels due seasonality but remained under levels from a year ago. Excluding credit card, remaining consumer and small business chargeoffs within the consumer and commercial banking group increased $38 million. But, again, we are still lower than the fourth quarter a year ago. I will discuss our credit quality outlook in a couple of minutes, but we continue to believe that both the consumer and middle market areas will be stable to improving in 2003. 

 Now turning to the global corporate and investment bank, earnings in the fourth quarter decreased almost $200 million from the third quarter results. Due primarily to the higher provision for loan losses. Total revenues actually increased 3% from the third-quarter levels driven by better results in Investment Banking. Investment Banking fees themselves rose 34% to $407 million from the third quarter. The increase was driven by increases in securities underwriting, syndications, and advisory services. Securities underwriting increased 45% from a sluggish third-quarter level to $175 million. Driven by increases in equity and high yield. Syndication fees increased 19% to $130 million. And advisory services fees increased 42% to $88 million. 

 Bank of America Securities continued to take market share in M&A along with growth and debt restructuring. On a full-year basis, Investment Banking fees of $1.5 billion were down only 3% from results in 2001. Better results in indications and advisory could not offset, however, the weaker market demand in security underwriting. Despite the decline, we felt that compared to our competitors, we fared very well in this most difficult market environment. 

 Turning to total trading revenue. Total trading revenue -- excuse me, total trading-related revenue for the fourth quarter was $684 million. That's an increase of 19% from the third quarter. Foreign exchange revenue at $141 million was up 11% from the prior quarter. Revenue from interest rate contracts of $247 million more than doubled from third-quarter results. Fixed income revenue dropped 33% to $186 million. Tightening and credit spreads reversed the value of certain credit default swap and other hedges of credit exposure that had a positive impact in the prior quarter. Equites dropped slightly to $76 million and commodities increased to $34 million. 

 As far as credit quality for the global and corporate bank, revision and net chargeoff together increased $323 million from third-quarter levels. Recoveries dropped $60 million from the third quarter, while gross chargeoffs increased $263 million. Driving the increased chargeoffs were one credit in the airline industry, that's approximately half of the gross increase, and two credits in the utility sector. Losses were also incurred during the quarter in other income, from writedowns of approximately $50 million related to partnership interest with leverage leases in the airline industry. Total large corporate nonperforming assets increased $313 million. Of which the two largest loans were European telecom and media credit. Loans in GCIB continue to decrease. As expected and ended the quarter at $58 billion, that was down an additional $2 billion from the end of the third quarter. 

 Now turning to our third core business segment of asset management. What you can see here is that total revenues were up 3% for the quarter versus the third quarter due mainly to higher brokerage fees. For the year, in asset management, total revenue was down 3%, which we think is note worthy given the double-digit drops in all the major industries. 

 Total expense levels were flat for the year. This is net of our continued investment in our distribution capability. Asset management did, in fact, exceed its goal for the year of expanding both financial advisors and relationship managers by 20%. Assets under management increased to $310 billion from third-quarter levels, reflecting some seasonality. For the full year, assets under management finished the year relatively unchanged from levels a year ago. Helped by a 7% increase in money market funds and other short-term funds. 

 Now our fourth and final business segment is equity investments. Non-interest income in the fourth quarter was a negative $59 million, compared to a negative $193 million in the third quarter. In principle investing, cash gains were approximately $111 million, offset by impairment of $174 million. Impairments in 2002 totaled approximately $708 million versus 335 million of impairment for all of 2001. The impairments obviously were driven by continued weakness in select sectors, including domestic and international telecom. 

 Now let me spend the rest of my time this morning discussing our outlook for the current year, 2003. This is, in fact, the third year in a row where economic uncertainty makes prognostication very difficult and highly risky. I feel a little like Bill Murray, if you will, in that "Groundhog Day" movie, in that every morning I wake up it's January and I have to talk to you about the year ahead. 

 We believe currently that the current economic fundamentals are fairly sound and GDP growth in 2003 will be positively influenced by productivity gains, by continued low inflation, by proactive economic policies, which we expect, by strong banking system, and by efficient Capital Markets. 

 However one risk we are not handicapping which is a clear possibility is, of course, the geopolitical risk of war. For the first half of 2003, we believe GDP growth may be in the range of 2 to 2.5% where are a pickup in the second half to a range of about 3 to 3.5%. We believe unemployment levels should stay around 6%, with maybe a slight increase before abating. Any pressure on the fed to raise rates won't materialize, we believe, until late in the year if not early 2004. 

 Now the compared to year-end loan levels, we are looking for modest loan growth in 2003, low-to-mid-single digits as consumer lending and the recovery in the commercial marketplace will outpace further targeted reduction in our large corporate loan book. Consumer lending growth will continue to leverage the banking center network, focusing in on mortgages, home equity loans and credit cards. We believe small business lending will increase along with middle-market lending as I mentioned earlier. Large corporate loans at year-end are close to our comfort levels and aggregate, but we still have some room for additional selective reduction and we will continue to work on reducing concentration levels. One headwind we don't have to face as much this year as last is the dramatic decrease in loans that we experienced in 2002 from business exits in 2001. As well as, of course, as the significant decrease in our large corporate loan book. 

 Other earnings assets will fluctuate around year-end levels as trading assets and investment securities could easily move higher or lower depending on market conditions and use of swaps for asset liability management purposes. With modest loan growth and some compression in the margin due to lower rates, we are looking for net interest income to be flat to up 1% for 2003. 

 The balance sheet is currently positioned to be slightly asset sensitive to a rise in rate are, with some curve flattening. The impact of a gradual rate change of 100 basis points say plus or minus over 12 months will impact net income by approximately 2% either way. 

 You should note that this asset-sensitive position bodes well for revenue growth as rates rise. Given the cut in rates by the fed in November, we expect to see a reduction in net interest income in the first quarter of 2003 from the fourth quarter level, as deposit compression continues. This effect should be fully reflected in the first quarter results. Another factor impacting net interest income in the first quarter will be two less days in the quarter. 

 Now on the fee side, we are looking for continued positive trends in our consumer and commercial business in the areas of service charges, card income, and mortgage banking income. Mortgage banking income should benefit from continued low rates and the full-year impact from our completed franchise-wide rollout of loan solution. Asset management is expected to show double-digit increases in fee revenue given the investments made in distribution in 2002, and continuing investment in 2003, as well as what we think will be somewhat stable market condition. 

 In global corporate and Investment Banking, we are looking for some increases in global cash management and only a modest pickup in market-sensitive revenues. Equity investment should experience a nice pickup in 2003, by merely having lower impairment, but we think the improvement will be better than that as a rebound in the economy should generate higher cash gains as well this year. 

 So to sum up, we would expect fee revenue growth before the impact of equity investment gain to be in the high single digits for 2003. This improvement is not driven as much by economic recovery as it is by momentum that we created in 2002 and the initiatives that we currently have in place going into this year. Factoring in the improvement in equity investment gains from positive to negative should move the total fee increase into the low teens for the year. 

 On the expense front, we will continue to invest resources in those businesses that will produce long-term and profitable revenue growth, but having said that, expense growth will correlate with revenue growth. While we don't think we can achieve our goal of 4% operating leverage in the current environment, we can get into the tune of 3% operating leverage range. This guidance obviously includes the impact from our decision to expend 2003 options and to adjust our pension plan assumptions. 

 Over the past years -- past few years, we have moved aggressively to cut back expense levels if projected revenue growth did not materialize. We were much quicker last year than in previous years in pulling back expense, and we will be just as vigilant and quick, if you will, in 2003 in monitoring economic trend. 

 Now turning to credit quality, our outlook remains essentially the same as we have been outlining for you in the past couple of months. While we feel positive about consumer and middle-market areas, we are not comfortable with certain segments of large corporate book. This is why we are targeting quarterly chargeoffs on average in 2003 to remain high. Somewhere in the range of the first three quarters of last year, which is about 8 to 900 million per quarter. Higher credit card receivables while benefiting net interest income will, in fact, drive an increase in consumer chargeoffs in terms of dollars. Both middle-market and large corporate chargeoffs should improve from last year's results. 

 We have already seen an improvement in the middle market side, and we expect to start to see lower chargeoffs from the large corporate side starting the first quarter of this year. However, as I mentioned we are still concerned about large corporate credit and expect the lumpiness in chargeoffs and MDA's to continue for about the first half of the year. 

 The industries in the areas driving this lumpiness will be utilities, and to a more limited extent, telecom, media, airline and Latin America. Provision expense is expected to track net chargeoffs as it did in 2002. Nonperforming asset levels should be coming down as the year progresses, but the quarterly result will fluctuate depending on the level of recoveries, chargeoffs and of course, one off event. 

 Let us address capital trends for a minute. We expect to keep our Tier 1 ratio at current high level. We will still have plenty of room to pay an attractive dividend and buy back shares. And when you take all these comments into consideration, you should arrive at an earnings number that should be close to the current consensus of approximately $6.20 per share for 2003. Of course, much of what I said is dependent upon what the economy does. So if you have differing views, and I suggested you factor those differences into your estimate. 

 Earnings for the last two years were very close to what consensus was each year in early January. However clearly our path to the actual number was somewhat different than the scenarios we laid out to you in each January as we managed through the changing economic environment. This is when the value of our business model is most evident, I think, as the diversity of our earnings streams and the various businesses helps us earn through these unexpected challenges. I actually don't think 2003 will be any different. 

 With that, let me open the floor up for questions. Are there any questions? Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: [ NO AUDIO ] 

 JIM HANCE: Sure. Three-part question, maybe. 

 One, comment on leases and sort of lease exposure if I would to the airline industry. Two, where do we see consumer chargeoffs going in the future. And what do we really think in terms of the economy with regard to consumer chargeoffs and are we tightening on the consumer side. 

 Let me sort of do it in reverse order. We have been constantly looking at our consumer credit scoring models, revising them, if you will, reflecting in them what our actual experience is and has been and what we expect it to be and adjusting those models all the way through. They have been very successful. 

 Our chargeoffs at the consumer front have been lower than we expected, credit card all the way through, and they are virtually nonexistent in every other category with the exception of credit card. You notice the rates came down from third to fourth quarter in credit card. We expect that rate to be very stable in terms of chargeoffs on credit cards, but the dollars will go up as we grow that portfolio. That portfolio grew 24% this year on balance sheets, all right. Less than a managed basis. And that will continue to grow as that expands throughout our franchise. 

 So we feel comfortable, really comfortable on the consumer front. We expect the consumer to be stable if not robust, and really credit problems to be very manageable and very even all throughout the year. The wild card for that, of course, is a double-dipper recession which we don't expect and don't see and we think the administration fiscal stimulus package, whatever it is, will be helpful and continue to keep the consumer real stable. 

 In terms of where we are on the lease front, leverage lease front, our exposure in the airline industry is primarily in leverage leases. And that is what you have seen us take -- or take losses on in both the third and the fourth quarter. We -- we have -- we have taken losses we think we need to take on the two problems so far, right. We also think the airline industry in total is under pressure and view that as additional concerns going forward. So we think there could be additional losses coming out of the airline portfolio and other name, and it could be lumpy, depending on what happens with our economic. 

 The airline industry is under tremendous stress. And while we are not -- we are not large in it in terms of commitment, we are in it, and the commercial -- the commercial carriers, domestic, are going to be primarily the problem. And we have been keeping up with it and we will continue to do that. So that's where commercial airlines are going. 

 Yeah, Andy? 

 UNIDENTIFIED: [ NO AUDIO ] 

 JIM HANCE: Right. 

 Let me take two of those. First, about utilities exposure. I think it is in the supplemental handout that our utility exposure is 5.5 billion. That is all utilities. In there is merchant energy and merchant power, however you want to define it. We keep moving those definitions around ourselves, but we have both of those in there in that number. We have losses in the fourth quarter coming from that exposure and those credits. We think that is risk for lumpiness going forward as well. 

 We are constantly reduce the exposure of 5.5 billion, if you will, to all utilities and merchant energy sector in particular the merchant power sector. That said, we do have exposure and some of those credits are stretched. We have not disclosed what the pure merchant or energy power piece is and won't until we figure out what commonality of definitions are in there. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: [ NO AUDIO ] 

 JIM HANCE: No, I don't know the numbers on breaking out the investment versus non-investment grades. So far the nonperformers have been relatively low, as have the losses, but it is a risk portfolio. 

 In terms of your second question on our losses on -- or impairment, if you will are, on the venture capital equity business, principal investing business has been low relative to our peers. That is definitely true. This year was way higher than last, almost double. This year was very heavily in the funds piece versus the direct piece. And with a couple of sectors like telecom. 

 The main reason we have been materially less than our peers is our concentration levels are very different. We did have less telecom, less media and less cable than some of the other ones, and just less exposure. 

 We also have a very diverse book, and the book has arisen predominantly out of our franchise over time and given us a tremendous spread. About 5 billion in total, it has been relatively stable, but the performance the last couple of years have been terrible. We would expect 2003 to be much better as the economy stabilizes and sort of the impairments have run their course. 

 We still haven't seen a great flow of liquidity events. So while the cash gains last year were about 400 million, that's way below what cash gains were running in the normal cycle where there was ongoing liquidity event. We did not expect it to come back this year fully but we expect it to be better than last year. 

 Good question. Yes? More questions? Yeah. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: [ NO AUDIO ] 

 JIM HANCE: Yeah, that's a good question. 

 The question is, what's our loss severity, if you will, and what do we think it is in merchant energy versus telecom or whatever. 

 I am not sure that history is sort of written itself there yet. We tend to think it is less. The event so far has been less, but we won't know. We won't know until it sort of runs its course, and for telecom, we think more or less it has run its course, we do not think merchant energy has. We are sort of waiting to see. We are well reserved, focused on it, driving our exposures down to where we can, but we are unclear as to what we -- what we think the actual loss severity is going to be. 

 Great question. The question is, what's the sense of timing? We tend to think it is going to be sooner rather than later, and that they will start to be some events here rolling out in terms of -- of them sort of fixing themselves. 

 I think a couple of them have been fairly instructive. If you look at Dynergy and a few others, they have done good jobs of selling more assets and becoming more liquid and paying down their debts and they have been relatively loss free. The question is what happens to the rest of us? And do they all have that capability? 

 Don't know. But we think it will be this year, and fairly, you know, fairly soon. 

 How about a question from the telephone line. 

 OPERATOR: Okay. We will go to Lori Applebaum, Goldman Sachs. Go ahead. 

 LORI APPLEBAUM, GOLDMAN SACHS: Jim, my question relates to the DeNova branching strategy -- [ INAUDIBLE ] -- 

 JIM HANCE: Lori, I lost you. 

 LORI APPLEBAUM: Can you hear me now, Jim? 

 JIM HANCE: Now we can, you're back. 

 LORI APPLEBAUM: My question relates to the DeNova branching strategy. I guess you indicated that over the next three years you will open 550 branches. 

 If could you talk a little bit about any of the results that you may have done in test marketing and some of the newer markets like Chicago and the northeast and where the value proposition really is for Bank of America where you don't have much of an existing franchise. And is the 550 number, is that hard or its results don't come in as you expect, is there the opportunity to really pare back that number? 

 JIM HANCE: Good question. We really just started, as you know, and especially in Chicago with our first branch in Chicago. I think we are -- I think -- your question is a good one. It is going to vary a little bit, Lori. A lot of the branches are going to be in existing areas, where we have a very big market share, the growing population, and, if you will, our top 25 markets. And those are going to be branches that sort of extend with the market, go with the market, and the success of those branches are virtually assured if you think about it. I don't see pullback on those and I don't see any scaleback on those. And we normally have a fairly quick ramp-up. 

 The branches in Chicago we think are going to be very successful with because of the fact we have a huge private bank there with a huge commercial and corporate business there and we think we have a lot of momentum and tends to be somewhat underserved in our view. So we'll see. 

 But my -- our thinking is now we are going to go full speed with these. We are going to monitor them carefully and not do something stupid. About $2.5 million per branch for investment and we will continue to sort of develop the market share. 

 Everything is sort of helping if you think about it in terms of our national brand strategy, the -- the commonality of systems, of products and everything. So we think we will have some success in the DeNova area where Chicago will clearly be. So we will see. 

 Hard number, more or less hard. Not necessarily divided by year, but we would expect to get at least that number over a three-year period. 

 Does that help? Another question from the line? 

 OPERATOR: We'll go to Carol Berger with Crest Investments. Go ahead. 

 CAROL BERGER, CREST INVESTMENTS: Hi, James, can you hear me? 

 JIM HANCE: Yes. 

 CAROL BERGER: Could you talk about the trends in revenues and net income in the global treasury services? 

 JIM HANCE: Sure, global treasury services had a great year. The revenues increased about 11%. Net income was a little higher because of expense control and in -- and I guess because a little more compensating balances. 

 We would expect that to continue to be very strong. You probably saw our announcement where we are now managing, if you will, commercial, which is our middle market, and our corporate treasury services business all as one. So we are going to be focusing this as -- on --as a major business even though the results of the business get split between corporate and investment banking and our commercial and consumer banking. You look at the total together, it's about $4.5 billion of revenue in 2002, with about a billion dollars of earning, and a very strong growth rate. 

 What we have also seen there is that we have had success in maintaining our treasury services customers while reducing our credit line for that very customer. And that's a plus. And the more we can separate, if you will, the service on the treasury -- on the depository and treasury side from effectively credit line, the better we are going to be in it. We are clearly number one domestically and growing rapidly internationally. 

 CAROL BERGER: Jim, I was looking at the third and fourth quarters and you have had a sequential decline in revenues in net income. Is that seasonal or is there a trend there? 

 JIM HANCE: Carol, I missed where it was. Where did you say it was? 

 CAROL BERGER: In the third and fourth quarters you had a decline in net income and revenue in the treasury services. 

 JIM HANCE: That is primarily seasonal. That is not a trend at all. Primarily seasonal. And don't forget, a lot of it is going to be whether or not it is compensating balances versus fees. I mean you've got -- you are just looking at the fee piece. 

 CAROL BERGER: Thanks. 

 JIM HANCE: Another question from the telephone line 

 OPERATOR: We'll go to David Hilder, Bear Sterns, go ahead. 

 DAVID HILDER, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning, Jim. Thanks. A quick question. Did you have any sales of commercial nonperforming loans during the quarter? 

 JIM HANCE: Did we have any at all? Kevin tells me they were minimal. Nothing that would register on the screen. 

 DAVID HILDER: Okay. And you -- in terms of the branch question, you said that that wouldn't necessarily roll out equally over three years. Can you give us any sense of how the expense would be loaded or biased in that three-year period? 

 JIM HANCE: I can't. But if you just think about the logistics of finding locations and getting them built. They are going to tend --tend to lag a little bit from this year into the next two years. Although we are full out working on it to try to get them up and running this year. 

 And see once you -- if you think about it -- and there is probably -- and there are a certain number of months and it varies by area on them breaking even, so this year is going to be probably our biggest net investment year, and then they will start to sort of pay for themselves as they go forward. 

 DAVID HILDER: Okay. Thank you very much. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: [ NO AUDIO ] 

 JIM HANCE: Yeah, good question. Let me -- two pieces. What's our margin going to do with rising rates and when do we expect earnings to really break out? 

 Let me take the first part. Rising rates will help us. We are beyond, if you will, on the low side, the sweet spot, in terms of the interest rate environment. Rising rates will help us in a number of ways. The most obvious, of course, is that -- as rates go up, the deposit prices lag and we will have a greater spread. 

 Secondly, we will end up with a better reinvestment rate on our discretionary portfolio and our maturing investments, if you will. Rising rates is good for us. We will look forward to them, want them desperately, and that will be -- make a material difference. 

 In terms of earnings breakout, I think you are going to see earnings breakout in your -- sort of your definition, Steve, when the economy stabilizes or starts to go up. We already are seeing excellent momentum on the consumer businesses in terms of revenue growth, customer growth, customer satisfaction. We are getting great operating leverage there. We are a very large fixed cost shop, if you will, and that will do nothing but produce bottom-line results. 

 Second, the drag we have had from our market-based revenue -- businesses, market revenue-related businesses is huge. And it is asset management, it's trading and Investment Banking, it's it's investment -- principal investing, it's all of those. All of that has been overcome, if you will, as well as the huge drop in just our base of businesses. When we -- you know, we drop respectively $28 billion of earnings assets by getting rid of consumer real estate and leasing. We also dropped another $60 billion on the corporate side. So that has been a huge drop to overcome in terms of share flow and we have been able to do that. 

 So drops going forward are nil or minor or tweaked. You end up with a better operating leverage and better spread and higher rates would, in fact, help us. We are not predicting that for 2003 because we have been wrong two years before -- two years prior, right? We kept waiting for an economic rebound in the fourth quarter of 2001 and 2002, didn't see it. 

 So by not planning it or predicting it this year, we hope we are wrong again. I guess that's the best way to say it. So we are planning and managing very, very conservatively, and we are real happy with how we are doing it. I mean, our total returns to shareholders last year was 15%. Second highest of anybody over two years it ranked first. So we are very pleased we have been able to get through this very tough time in the economy with -- you know, where a lot of our peers have had big time problems and we haven't. 

 So while don't see stunning growth, you also don't see negative earnings, so we are very pleased with that. 

 Telephone call. Let's get another -- another question from the phones, please. 

 OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, Prudential. Go ahead. 

 MIKE MAYO, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Hi, Jim. 

 JIM HANCE: Good morning, Mike. 

 MIKE MAYO: Can you drill down a little further on the expenses? Seems like this year, there would be a one-time step-up in some expenses like pension, stock options, insurance, health care. If you can quantify that. 

 On the positive side, how much have you achieved from your six sigma initiative and what's left and what are you doing with capital spending and tech spending? 

 JIM HANCE: Sure, on expenses, if I can pair up some of your questions. There won't be any difference in pension expense from 2002 to 2003 because we did it in 2002 in a catch-up mode. So that's flat. 

 Health costs to rise. We had an increase in 2002. We expect another one in 2003, even though we are passing some of it on to our associates. But we don't see that abating. You are going to have some increase in costs for the new branches. Yes. 

 Now what's offsetting all of that is essentially continued momentum from six sigma. 2002, I would say, is our first more or less full year of providing the six sigma principles and targets, et cetera, and we got a lot of benefit from it. But the momentum and accumulation of that continues into 2003 and will be even better. 

 With that said, we are going to manage expenses in line with revenue. So if we see a slippage or concern in revenue levels, you are going to see expenses continue to -- continue to be managed and drop. 

 On the capital expenditure side, capital expenditures will be a little lower -- I would say lower in 2003 than they would have been in 2002 even with the new branches, be they be leased or owned, and that's because we are outsourcing a great -- we are outsourcing a network, we are outsourcing all of those with that network, and the capital expenditures on all that is EDS's problem. You are going to see some drops in capital expenditures and we have been very current. We should be somewhere roundly 600 million of capital expenses this year which is down from where it was in 2002. 

 MIKE MAYO: Where was it in 2002? 

 JIM HANCE: About 750, I think. I haven't seen a final number, but I think, Mike, it's right around the 750 range. 

 MIKE MAYO: Okay. Thanks a lot. 

 JIM HANCE: Sure. Another question from the telephone line. 

 OPERATOR: Tom McCandless, KBW, go ahead. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS (ph), KBW: Hey, Blaine. Happy New Year to you, Jim. 

 JIM HANCE: Hi, Tom. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS (ph): Couple of questions if I may. I want to verify your comments a few minutes ago about net interest interest income in terms of being conservative in your positioning. Did I correctly infer you are planning on rates being flat from here throughout year? 

 JIM HANCE: That's right. That's the way we are planning it and thinking about it. I hope we are wrong, but that's the way we are managing it and planning it. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS (ph): Okay. Second question would be, on the credit side, could you elaborate a little bit about what the thinking is and the due diligence internally with respect to your real estate portfolio commercially given the -- sort of the creepage of headline risk there and I have a follow-up on credit. 

 JIM HANCE: We actually have -- are fairly comfortable with our commercial real estate portfolio, and we think it is going to sort of hold steady. We have pulled back years ago in commercial real estate and currently have about 7% of our loans in commercial real estate, and tend to not have much in the riskier sectors like rural land and others. We were not blind to the fact that that sector could undergo some stress, but in our overall thinking, we don't think it will be very significant and material. 

 The equity component tends to be very high in real estate, with credits these days. Very sizable in it and doing a lot of origination and distribution but we are not hanging on to much of it. We do not expect a problem on commercial real estate going forward. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS (ph): And then secondly, how should we think about the exposures with respect to Conseco? 

 JIM HANCE: To which one? 

 TOM MCCANDLESS (ph): Conseco. 

 JIM HANCE: Well, we have some. We have not quantified it for investigators. We continue to take losses on it, where appropriate. And I would say you should just view it as something we are managing in total along with all the rest of it. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS (ph): That's fair. And finally, Jim, with respect to the overall guidance in '03, around the consensus number of 620, does that include a much-better venture capital year and if so, how much because it seems to be such a variable? Another way to get at that is, if venture capital broke even, could you still hit 620? 

 JIM HANCE: We would love it to break even. Does that answer your question? 

 TOM MCCANDLESS (ph): Yeah. 

 JIM HANCE: The answer is, yeah. We -- but -- what we are -- what we are planning is just not the level of losses, I guess is the way to say it. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS (ph): Are you planning on making money next year? How much of a swing are you guys expecting? 

 JIM HANCE: We are expecting a fairly sizable swing just to get it to break even. And coming predominantly from the impairment side, Tom. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS (ph): Does the 620 mean break even in venture capital or making money in venture capital? 

 JIM HANCE: We will not get that specific about our segment but involves a turnaround on venture capital, yes. It also includes expensing stock options and everything else we have been talking about. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS (ph): Terrific, Jim, thanks so much. 

 JIM HANCE: Another telephone question. 

 OPERATOR: David Stronk, AG Edwards. Go ahead. 

 DAVID STRONK (ph), AG EDWARDS: Good morning, Jim. Can you provide a little insight into how the Investment Banking line could shape up next year? I certainly understand market activity is really going to determine it, but what I am really getting at is you all have actually done extremely well in the fixed income component. And I am kind of wondering how those two sides of that business would offset each other potentially in rebound and equity markets. Would it be at expense of some of the money you are making on the fixed income side? 

 JIM HANCE: Potentially. Let me talk about all the pieces of it for minute. We had a relatively flat year on investment banking in total at a billion and a half dollars, which was very good, right? Where the market had been down, what, 40%. 

 DAVID STRONK (ph): Right. 

 JIM HANCE: We would expect next year to be relatively flat again, but we think the mix is going to change. We think we will actually have less debt perhaps and a little more advisory and equity. We'll see. We'll see what market gives us. 

 We have, in fact, been taking market share across the board while the market has been dropping. We think we are well-positioned for what comes out in terms of activity. We do expect to see quite a bit of restructuring and quite a bit of sort of fixing some of the problems that are out there, and we think we will participate in that. 

 Trading we expect to be stronger in 2003 than it was in 2002. It is a nice pick-up on that side call okay. We also expect to see continuing strength in the treasury services side and we think chargeoffs will be better. 

 So when you put it all together, we think that the GCIB world, if you will, will get closer to our target for them, which is a 20% return on equity. Where this year they were, like, 15. 

 That's our goal. Our goal is to shove them up and to have them continue to grow and perform and they will do some of it with cost control for sure, and just sort of get a continuing balance there. 

 DAVID STRONK (ph): One sort of follow-up question, and I know this is also very difficult to predict, but under your sort of flat interest rate scenario that you have laid out, do you think securities gains also be as significant in '03 as they were in '02? 

 JIM HANCE: Potentially they could. While the rate -- if you look at this year, the rates have been so incredibly volatile, that we have been able to sort of take money off the table and still reposition without effectively borrowing from next year's flow. If that can occur and we will just have to see if we can manage in that environment, then we will do it again. 

 We are sitting with a huge appreciation. I mean, I hate to watch it go down the drain here, and -- if our team, and they have been very good at it, if our team can take some money off the table and reposition us so we also -- so we don't borrow from net interest income tomorrow, we will do that and we are looking for opportunities to do that all the time. 

 DAVID STRONK (ph): Okay, thanks. 

 JIM HANCE: Another question from the telephone line? 

 OPERATOR: Go to Betsy Graysick, Morgan Stanley, go ahead. 

 BETSY GRAYSTICK (ph), MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, Jim, how are you doing? 

 JIM HANCE: Morning. 

 BETSY GRAYSTICK (ph): Just following up on the last question -- [INAUDIBLE] 

 JIM HANCE: We can barely hear you. 

 BETSY GRAYSTICK (ph): Hello, can you hear me? 

 JIM HANCE: Now we can. 

 BETSY GRAYSTICK (ph): I was just looking to see if you could drill down a little bit into the securities portfolio growth that was experienced during the quarter, if you could give us a little bit of color on what the components of that growth was and how the duration changed at quarter end versus end third quarter? 

 JIM HANCE: Great question. Let me flip to here if I can find it here really quick here. We, in fact, -- well, we did a number of things. We increased off-balance sheet positions materially, decreased on balance sheet positions, not on average but at the end of the quarter. But when we were done, the whole thing was up from where it was, and we dropped duration substantially. Duration dropped to 3.9 from about 4.3 at the end of September. 

 BETSY GRAYSTICK (ph): And those are weighted average duration? 

 JIM HANCE: That is a weighted average duration by security. 

 BETSY GRAYSTICK (ph): Right. 

 JIM HANCE: So we also have put in some additional -- other protection that, again have off balance sheet as we look at our portfolio. The portfolio on balance sheet at the end of December is 69 billion. And that's down from 89 on balance sheet at the end of September. But the swaps have gone up -- let me see if I can find that a minute. They went up proportionately. 

 BETSY GRAYSTICK (ph): Right. 

 JIM HANCE: Okay. 

 BETSY GRAYSTICK (ph): Thanks. 

 JIM HANCE: But that's kind of the example I was trying to talk -- I guess answer the question earlier. We have been very, very proactive. We will continue to be proactive and in that -- in that opportunity -- in that -- the opportunity for security gains and we will take them. I mean, cash is cash. Pays dividends, does all kind of things. We like cash. Yes. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: [ NO AUDIO ] 

 JIM HANCE: Do you work for the SEC? 

 I know -- that is a great question. The question is -- everybody is going to love this question. If we see chargeoffs coming and nonperformance coming down and sort of a break, if you will, will we be comfortable run program vision below chargeoffs? 

 Boy, that is a super question. Personally, I would love to do that. I mean, of all the useless things in the world, it is reserve for loan losses. And so it sort of sits there. I think that we are unlikely to do it, though. I think we are more likely to grow into it, I think is a better answer. 

 If you look at our history when we had that opportunity to do it before, and that would have been two, two and a half years ago, we --we did not ever do it. We never brought the provision, if you will, below the chargeoffs other than things we have sold where we got rid of divisions or businesses or something like that, and the reserve went with it. 

 What we have done, though, is grow the portfolio without putting aside loan loss reserves. And that is a better scenario. I think that is a better way to do it, and especially as our mix changes from less commercial corporate to more consumer, to let it float, if you will, down by having more consumer assets on balance sheets. Our reserve itself has been really stable. It has been right around 2%, right around $7 billion for a couple of years, I guess, and just sort of sits there, except for the discontinued business we sold last year and took a piece of it out and went with the business. 

 Another question from the telephone line 

 OPERATOR: Joe Moreford, RIBC. Go ahead. 

 JOE MOREFORD (ph), RIBC: Thanks. Good morning, Jim. I joined the call a bit late so I apologize if you've covered this. A couple things on the tax line, excluding the 488 million tax benefits, it looked like the effective rate was 31.7% which was down sequentially and have been steadily declining all year. Have you continued to contribute assets to your SSI subsidiary that may be helping that and what is a good rate to use going forward? Thanks. 

 JIM HANCE: Great question. On a FTE basis, effective tax rate is 36%. And very rarely moved. FTE. On a reported basis, it is running between 31.5 and 32.5. It has been coming down as we get better and better of managing state taxes and/or get a better mix between foreign taxes and U.S. taxes. I would -- if I were you, I would use 32%. 

 And then finally, the -- just for modeling purposes, finally, there is no SSI effect in the tax rate. That was last year, one time, and as we move assets in or move them out or whatever, it is not impacting the tax rate currently. Okay. That is -- so it has no effect. 

 JOE MOREFORD (ph): Thanks very much. 

 JIM HANCE: Sure. Steve. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: [ NO AUDIO ] 

 JIM HANCE: Right. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: [ NO AUDIO ] 

 JIM HANCE: Right. The question is, the FFEIC impact on subprime, while we don't have some prime businesses, your assumption is we have subprime customers, right? And what's the impact on us? 

 And to answer your question, we do have customers that are now subprime, even though they did not start that way necessarily. The impact of that we fixed I think in the third quarter, Kevin, correct me on that. The FFEIC, it was minor for us and may have been second quarter but we have fixed that during the year so we are fully compliant on those customers that now qualify and everything goes with it. In fact, I think we did it in the third quarter in terms of the adjustment for all kinds of things to go with it. So there's nothing in the fourth quarter that I am aware of, and nothing to come, I guess is the bottom line of that question. Not that we have not already fixed. And it was minor. 

 Any more questions anywhere? Are you all running out of steam? I am running out of steam. 

 Thank you very much for your -- for your interest, and thanks for following us. And I hope you have a good day and a good earnings season. Thank you. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020030116dz1f000gv
  


 HD
 Q3  2002  Bank  of  America  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
7,805 words
   PD
15 October 2002
   ET
01:30 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 KEVIN STITT, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, BANC OF AMERICA: Good morning. I'm Kevin Stitt, Bank of America investor relations. Before Jim Hance, our chief financial officer begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results. In that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions, in interest rates, market rates and prices, competitive pressures within and the financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. 

 For further infomration on these factors I would like to refer you to our quarterly press release as well as to SEC documents that we have filed previously. and with that let me turn the meeting over to Jim Hance. Thank you. 

   TD
 JAMES HANCE, VICE CHAIRMAN AND CFO, BANC OF AMERICA: Thanks, Kevin. Good morning, everyone, thank you for joining us. and we welcome you to our discussion of our third quarter earnings. Now, a thread ha has been apparent in all of our presentations over the past two years is management's belief and reliance on the business model that we have put in place at Banc of America. It was only two years ago that people were clamoring for more emphasis on double digit growth, businesses like investment banking and asset management while wondering how the slow growth retail business in this traditional branch network would compete with the monolines and the category killers. Needless to say the results we are seeing this year have given us comfort that our business mix was the right one. Our consumer businesses are pulling the load by producing increasing profitability, improving customer service, and expanding the customer base. 

 On the other hand, our market sensitive businesses, along with some aspects of corporate banking and asset management, are operating in a tough environment. While these various businesses are producing good results on a relative basis, the revenue levels are still down 16 percent from last year. Fortunately our business mix produces overall results that allow us to continue investing in those areas with the best prospects for future growth. Now, earnings this quarter were $2.2 billion or $1.45 per share on a diluted basis, up 4 percent from the second quarter results and an increase of 6 percent from the third quarter a year ago. These comparisons have been adjusted for the cost of business exits last year and the elimination of goodwill amortization this year. 

 Our consumer customer base continues to add new accounts while customer satisfaction significantly improved since last quarter. Average quarter domestic deposits are up an annualized 7 percent from the second quarter and $25 billion or 8 percent from the year ago. Total net charge-offs decreased 9 percent from second quarter levels while non-performing assets increased 4 percent. 

 Period-end book value for our company is $32.07 per share and preliminary tier 1 ratio of 8.1 3 percent are both up. Even though we purchased 17 million shares this quarter and 127 million shares over the past 12 months. As I did last quarter, let's discuss net interest income and the margin before moving to the individual businesses. In the third quarter on an FTE basis, net interest income rose $203 million. Driving most of the increase was the impact of a high discretionary portfolio along with higher core deposits. Higher trading related assets end an extra day in the quarter. As we told you in July, we were adding to discretionary portfolio in order to be more interest rate neutral and did so by adding on average approximately $9 billion in investment securities and $10 billion in mortgages while lowering the swap book by $12 billion. 

 The net interest margin remained flat. Better core funding and a better loan mix, that is more consumer loans and less commercial loans, improved margin by about 5 basis points. But, this increase was offset by a higher level of low margin trading assets and changes in the discretionary portfolio, again, about 5 basis points. 

 Turning to the individual businesses, consumer and commercial banking earned $1.6 billion, or 71 percent of the corporation' third quarter earnings with a return on equity of 35 percent. This is an earnings increase of 13 percent versus results a year ago and an increase of 9 percent in the second quarter. Revenue is up 11 percent from a year ago and 7 percent in the second quarter. Net interest income is up 11 percent and fee income grew 12 percent from last year. 

 We continue to have success in growing accounts. In the third quarter alone, net new checking accounts increased 153,000, bringing the year-to-data additions to approximately 401,000 new accounts. This compares to 193,000 net new checking accounts for all of 2001. Active online bank customers grew 15 percent this quarter to 4.3 million while active bill-pay customers increased 31 percent to 1.5 million customers. This growth in bill-pay reflects a 34 percent adoption rate for active online users, and has driven the bill-pay volume to $7 billion per quarter. As you know, on line bank customers, especially bill-pay, carry greater balances, more loans and are much less likely to a trip. 

 Approximately 50 percent of the increase in checking accounts is due to higher retention levels as a result of greater customer satisfaction. During the quarter, customer satisfaction levels as defined by the top two box scores increased from 43.3 percent to 46.6 percent, the largest 90-day increase since the advent last year of customer satisfaction measurement. A major driver in this increase was the 23 percent reduction in problems experienced by our customers during the quarter. Second account growth, high customer satisfaction and economic -- and the economic environment continue to aid our deposit growth. Average deposits in the consumer and commercial bank which as you know represents the bulk of our core deposits were up 7 percent from a year ago. In the second quarter average, average deposits are up an annualized 5 percent. 

 Looking at fee income in the consumer and commercial bank, all categories helped drive a 12 percent increase over the past 12 months. Service charges rose 9 percent to approximately $1 billion and benefited from new account growth, improved labor discipline, and higher commercial service fees. Card income increase of 11 percent over the past 12 months reflected higher interchange fees from both debit and credit cards, partially offset by $2.4 billion of loans related to accounts which were previously securitized that have return of the balance sheet over the past 12 months. These accounts returning the balance sheet add to net interest income, but of course decrease fee income. 

 If you look at total revenue on a managed basis, including net interest income, card services revenue has increased 17 percent to $1.3 billion from results a year ago. Debit card revenue grew 21 percent while consumer credit card grew 16 percent. Mortgage banking income increased significantly from both last year and the prior quarter to $218 million due to improved spreads and due to increased production from the current refinance boom. Versus second quarter originations are up 66 percent to just under $24 billion as we continue to focus on direct to customer business and profitable pricing. 

 Year to date on a net basis, the mortgage banking assets on the balance sheet have decreased $1.8 billion while the hedges have increased -- have appreciated in like amount. To be specific, the net impact on the trading line has been almost zero, which is an indication of how effective these hedges have been over the year. Now, all of the numbers that I have been quoting for the consumer and commercial bank include both our consumer businesses along with commercial banking. Commercial banking represents our middle market customer base with sales, as you know, between $10 million and $500 million. 

 Even with the decline in the commercial business activity this year and the 16 percent drop or roughly $10 billion in average loans from last year, commercial banking still produced an increase in net income of 9 percent. This increase was due to a pickup in fee revenues and a droop in the provision for credit losses. Over the past few weeks we have actually seen better business flows than we have seen for several quarters. Both new business outstanding and existing customer balances are increasing, while the pipeline at period end look stronger than prior periods. While not a trend yet, still a very big positive. 

 We were quick to jump on middle market credit deterioration last year and feel we have addressed it appropriately. Consequently we are positioned with the capacity to grow market share and address loan demand as it does indeed pick up as the economy improves. Credit quality for the consumer and commercial bank as a whole appears to be stabilizing. with middle market even improving. Net chargeoffs in the middle market portfolio decreased by 40 percent, both in the second quarter and in the same quarter last year. Middle market nonperforming loans are down 17 percent from last year. Managed credit card losses decreased from the second quarter results, both in dollar terms down roughly $19 million to $356 million and in lower loss ratio, down 46 basis points to 5.13 percent for managed credit card losses. 

 Versus last year, the managed credit card loss ratio was up 32 basis points, but it's still at levels much lower than we originally had expected at the beginning of this year. Further, 30-day and 90 day delinquency rates in consumer credit card improved by 15 basis points and 10 basis points respectively from second quarter levels. Excluding credit card, remaining consumer chargeoffs increased to $125 million from $109 million in the second quarter. But we're still lower than the first quarter this year and the third quarter a year ago. Consumer nonperforming assets rose $55 million from the previous quarter, but the increase has more to do with our decision a few quarters a go to hold more residential mortgages than with deterioration in credit quality. 

 Turning to the global corporate and investment bank, earnings in the third quarter decreased 24 percent in the second quarter to $428 million, with a return in equity of 16 percent. A drop in trading and investment banking revenues was somewhat offset by lower incentives and credit costs. While the revenues were weak, we maintain our market share. Average loans decreased in the second quarter level by another 5 percent or $3 billion to $61 billion as we experienced pay-downs and exits in relationships that didn't meet hurdle rates for profitability. 

 Investment banking fees were down 32 percent to $303 million in the second quarter, but were in fact 4 percent from the third quarter a year ago. All investment banking categories were down from the prior quarter. Securities underwriting decreased 48 percent from the second quarter to $121 million. It was driven by decreases in equity, high yield and high grade. Syndication fees dropped 9 percent to $109 million. Advisory services decreased 23 percent to $62 million. 

 On a year to date basis, investment banking fees of $1.1 billion are actually up slightly, however, from the year to date results a year ago as the markets are played to our strength in fixed income. Total trading revenue for the third quarter was $576 million and that was a decrease of 23 percent in the second quarter. Foreign exchange revenue was $127 million, down slightly from the second quarter. Revenue from interest rate contracts of $91 million was down 67 percent as a pickup in sales revenue was more than offset by trading results as benchmark interest rates reached historic lows. 

 Fixed income improved 39 percent to $277 million, as credit spread tightens from June when there were several single name events affecting the overall market. Equities and commodities dropped to $79 million and $2 million respectively as both markets remain soft. In the large corporate loan portfolio, net chargeoffs also dropped by $13 million or 6 percent from second quarter levels. The chargeoff ratio dropped as well to 1.32 percent from 1.35 percent in the second quarter and recoveries are up approximately $30 million in the large corporate loan portfolio. Total large corporate non-performing assets increased $446 million, of which the two largest loans involve the cable industry and the financial services insurance industry. 

 We continue to work on our -- to our exposure to Latin America and continue to work at lower. Total Brazilian exposure dropped 22 percent to $1.5 billion, while exposure to Argentina dropped another 6 percent to $506 million, including a $23 million chargeoff this quarter. 

 All in all, given the carnage in the markets and the lousy credit environment, we think the 16 percent return on equity and our global corporate on investment bank achieved in the third quarter was pretty good. 

 Now, our third core business segment is asset management. Total revenue here decreased 7 percent in the second quarter due to the absence of seasonal tax preparation fees that occurr in the second quarter. Also because of lower market valuations and lower brokerage fees. Versus results a year ago, total revenue is down 5 percent which is commendable given the 22 percent drop in the S&P 500 over that period and the flow of money out of equity investments. Expense levels are also down, approximately 4 percent from the second quarter levels due mainly to lower incentive compensation. 

 Even though the environment is rough, we continue to invest in this business and are on track to increase our number of financial advisors and relationship managers by 20 percent this year. Assets under management here dropped to $272 billion from second quarter levels due to lower equity valuations and lower levels of money market funds. Versus a year ago, assets under management are down approximately 3 percent. Net income for asset management remained lower than normal, due mainly to higher provision expense related to one loan in the private bank area that we referenced last quarter as well. 

 Our fourth and final business segment is equity investments. Here again, the deteriorating markets continued to have a negative impact. Non-interest income was a negative $193 million compared to a negative $43 million in the second quarter. In principal investing, which is the biggest piece of equity investments, cash gains were approximately $35 million offset by a negative fair market value adjustment of $56 million on the publicly traded portfolio and impairments of $172 million. 

 Impairments were recorded -- impairments recorded were driven by continuing depressed levels of economic activity across many sectors and of course weaknesses in the capital markets. However, a significant portion of this quarter's impairment was driven by a single exposure within the international telecom area. Year to date, impairments have totaled $535 million versus $335 million for all of 2001. 

 Now before addressing capital management, let me say a couple things about expenses. First, the efficiency ratio increased to 53.2 percent this quarter due to lower revenues and higher expenses. Expenses were up roughly $131 million in the prior quarter. And second, $55 million of this increase which is in personnel expense was driven by the change in assumptions for the Banc of America pension plan. The expected rate of return on pension plan assets was reduced from 9.5 percent to 8.5 percent in the third quarter and that reduction was made retroactive to the beginning of the year. 

 This was done because of the recent market conditions and the impact it has had on asset performance. On an annual basis, the total impact is approximately $70 million. Finally, in-data processing $45 million of the expense that you see was due to cost associated with terminated contracts on discontinued software licenses. 

 Now, turning to capital management, in the preliminary Tier 1 capital ratio improved to 8.13 percent. During the quarter, we repurchased 17 million shares and issued roughly 3 million shares related to exercise of stock options. for a net reduction of 14 million shares. Our current repurchase authorization has about 33 million shares remaining, which is more than sufficient for repurchases the rest of the year. And we expect Tier 1 capital to remain steady at roughly where it is. 

 Our current dividend yield as you know is approximately 4 percent and this is in fact the month that our board addresses dividend policy going forward. Over the past nine months we have been saying that 2002 would reflect modest revenue growth, tight expense control, and continued high levels of loan chargeoffs, and that is still our opinion. We didn't expect the consumer to be as strong, and the market sensitive areas to be as weak, but we have been successful in meeting the guidance that we outlined for you in January. We interpret the recent economic data more positively than the overall market does, and we also believe that GDP growth in the fourth quarter and into next year will be above 2 percent. Our outlook is still for rising rates around mid year 2003. 

 We use residential mortgages, securities and swaps, what we call our discretionary portfolio, to manage our interest rate risk. We may periodically sell pieces of that portfolio and reinvest when market conditions support such actions. This quarter, as you saw, we sold investments securities for gains of $189 million and hold mortgage loans for gains of $190 million which is reflected in other income. 

 Since our expectation for rising rates have been pushed out, we will continue to keep the portfolio at high levels and be proactive in selling assets as rates fluctuate on economic news. At a guard against convexity and credit risk, we are using interest rate caps, approximately $36 billion worth and credit protection, approximately $30 billion from AAA rated entities, to hedge the residential mortgage portfolio. In addition, we have entered into commitments to sell mortgage backs and residential mortgage loans amounting to approximately $14 billion net of any committed purchases. 

 The lower rate interest environment has helped the consumer manage their debt levels and consequently we expect consumer spending to continue to drive the overall economy. Market sensitive revenues, we believe, will continue to be volatile. The current investment banking pipeline, however, is looking somewhat better now than at the end of June. 

 However, the deals coming to market are subject to the market being there. Clearly these are uncertain markets and it is hard to predict what will happen. As far as our outlook for credit quality going forward, we think consumer losses, especially credit card, will continue to remain at current levels, plus or minus a little bit. Our credit card performance should continue to compare favorably to the industry as our portfolio composition remains weighted towards relationship accounts. 

 On the commercial and large corporate side, we believe gross chargeoffs will remain in the range of the past company couple of quarters. As I have said earlier, our middle market portfolio appears to have stabilized and based on this quarter's results may actually be improving. However, large corporate will continue to be event driven and erratic, so we expect to experience one-off problems over the next few quarters. 

 Large corporate non-performing loans have continued to rise so far this year, as we have expected. But we hope the loss content of many of the new additions is less than those from a few quarters ago. At the end of September, approximately 50 percent of our commercial and corporate non-performing loans are in the performing non-performing category. In other words, a large percentage of that portfolio is still making payments on their loans. Criticize loan levels are stable and dropped slightly from second-quarter levels. Going forward, we will remain cautious about credit, given the risk of a surprise in the economy and our exposure to the problem industries that appear in the news daily. However, we are quite pleased with the progress our people have made in addressing the credit problems that have come at us over the past two years, and we feel confident that they are again prepared to handle any future issues that come up. 

 Now, before I close, let me remind you that last November we laid out a strategy for you of reducing volatility in our earnings and improving our risk profile which included exiting businesses and relationships. We also began the groundwork for improving the customer experience to quality and productivity initiatives. The results of some of those efforts are evident today and will be along with a rebound in the markets and asset management, catalyst for future growth. 

 Thank you for your attention and I'd be happy to take your questions. 

 OPERATOR: At this time if you would like to ask a question, please press the 1 on your touch tone phone. You may withdraw that at any time by pressing the pound key. Again, to register your site for a question, please press one. Questions will be taken internally from the room first and then from the telephones. 

 HANCE: Your questions are sort of what are we thinking about in terms of how we view our business in light of what continues to be unemployment challenges? Also, what's our thinking about sort of the effect on us, if there is a war on Iraq or when there is a war on Iraq, and finally what about our own expenses and how we're managing those. Let me sort of take them in that order, I guess, Clarence. 

 First, we are obviously tracking all trends and monitoring carefully what is going on in the unemployment world here. Clearly the unemployment level are lower than we had thought they would be coming into this year. Don't know if they've stabilized, clearly don't know that, but are clearly cautiously optimistic that they may have or may not be deteriorating much further. 

 But how that relates to us specifically is primarily in credit cards, and our credit card business is the most susceptible to challenges on the unemployment front. That business, as you've seen, has performed better than we expected this year, way better, and better in the third quarter than it did in the second quarter. And we would attribute that mostly to the fact that we're not in subprime to any great degree, don't ever start out to be in subprime. Have some that have fallen into that category in the credit card area. and secondly, the customers are predominantly franchise customers. So they are customers we're doing business with in other realms as well. and finally, we have a very large transaction card that being the [inaudible]. 

 All of that is helping us with the credit card loss ratio which we saw this quarter was 5.13 percent and effectively is where we are most vulnerable to the unemployment. So we think we have feared well with our consumer portfolio even with the rising unemployment. 

 On the second part of Iraq, we have mixed opinions in-house about what we think that would do. I can tell you that most think that if we had a quick war in Iraq, it would be helpful to the economy and to our business going forward. If it were some long drawn out problem, exercise, that would not be helpful. In our planning for next year, where we're thinking about that and thinking about the economy in general, we are planning very cautiously. In other words, we're looking at next year to be much like this year, if you will, with the same sort of economic parameters, same sort of slow growth, same sort of market dilemmas, market volatility and the same sort of strength in the consumer I might add. In other words, the consumer still continuing to perform well. 

 So in our thinking for next year, we are being somewhat subdued to give us a cushion, if you will, for unknown events, potentially Iraq, for the continuing weakness in the economy. And lastly, that affects how we plan our expenses. You have seen us, be very expense conscious all year in that we have cutback, if you will, on new initiatives. We have cutback on some of our other expenditures, and we have been very productivity oriented and you have seen our expense ratios improve all year with the exception of this quarter which was driven heavily by a couple of unusual expenses and by a larger drop in the market sensitive revenues than we had anticipated. So you will see us continue to monitor expenses and continue to plan expenses flat, nearly flat for next year as we enter the cycle. 

 What we have seen overall, as you can tell by looking at the numbers, is we've seen very good growth in some of our businesses, double digit revenue growth, in fact, has been more than offset by double digit decline in some of our market sensitive revenues. So while we're holding our own in terms of total revenues, we are getting a tremendous surge on the one hand offset by a tremendous drop on the other. If that drop stabilizes or starts to rebound, you're going to see the overall revenues dramatically go up. We are a big fixed cost operation and the efficiency ratio continues to improve, but good question. How about other question here. Ron? 

 ANALYST: [inaudible]. 

 HANCE: Right. 

 ANALYST: [inaudible] 

 HANCE: Sure. the question is where do I see us on net interest income and so the margin going forward. 

 First, we were quite pleased with the growth in net interest income in the third quarter. The $200 million plus growth in net interest income was excellent in the third quarter and we held the margin or the yield, if you will, at 3.75 second to third. That was not anticipated because we, in fact, did ramp up our discretionary portfolio in order to reduce our sensitivity for rising rates, and that is lower spread -- spread assets. Going forward, we think the fourth quarter is going to look more or less like the third Ron. 

 The trends are sort of saying, and that is we're seeing good deposit growth which is cheap funding, if you will. We're seeing continuing consumer asset growth, predominantly mortgage and credit card. We're seeing a stabilization, if you will on both corporate and commercial, in other words, the reductions are not as big. 

 And we do, in fact, have some benefit from our swaps activity. We have a large deferred gain that is yet to be recognized which will go through net interest income over a period of time, including part of it in the fourth quarter. So all of that bodes well, I think, for fourth quarter levels of net interest income and yield. 

 But we're cautious about it. You're going to see us do some repositioning. I mentioned of course that we have some forward sales in progress, and we're going to do some -- and we continue to have caps and various other instruments in order to cushion us for --against negative convexity. And that does cost money and that does in fact affect the overall net interest income and yield as we go forward. 

 ANALYST: [inaudible] 

 HANCE: They're either up and let me find the number here. The question is can I tell you what the unrealized is from say three months ago. We are at -- we are up slightly, it's over a billion dollars both times. 

 ANALYST: [inaudible] 

 HANCE: That's just the swaps. That's way up. Hang on a minute. the bond portfolio is up considerably. That was just swaps, Ron. The bond portfolio market valuation adjustment at the end of September is $1.3 billion, and that's up from 260 at the end of June. But those are fleeting numbers, as you know. But anyway, we would like to lock in some of them. Another question. How about a question from the telephone line. 

 OPERATOR: We'll go to the line of David Hilder (ph) with Bear Stearns. Please go ahead. 

 HILDER: Thanks, Jim. I apologize if you mentioned this already, but were there any sales of commercial non-performing loans during the quarter? 

 HANCE: Good question. You know, I don't have any of those in my mind, frankly. I think if it was either really minimal or zero in this quarter. The discounts or the spreads, if you will, were just too wide and we just did not have large non-performing sales. If you look at total recoveries as well over the second to third quarter, they're roughly the same with a little mix change, little higher corporate, little lower consumer in the third quarter than we had in the second. But, Kevin, I don't think we had anything of size if we had any. 

 HILDER: Jim, if I could one other issue that seems to come up. You said you wouldn't talk it this much in the future, is the portfolio from the subprime loans moved a year ago, could you update us on how much of the AAA rated securities are still on the balance sheet or have the losses on the MTA's or the residual are coming in versus your reserves? 

 HANCE: Yeah. I think we have some triple As still left, but I don't know the number - a couple billion maybe. It won't be a lot. We still have some non-performing loans on the books, if you will, from the re -- left over from the sub-prime real estate, and that's in the 150 range kind of number, and we're still very well reserved. We have not had to a add to that reserve all year, if you will. So we're very pleased with how that's winding down. and anticipate no issues there. 

 HILDER: Thank you very much. 

 HANCE: Another question? 

 OPERATOR: We have one from Mike Shupps (ph)with Kraft Investment. Please go ahead. 

 ANALYST: Actually it's Carol Burger. Can you hear me? 

 HANCE: I hear you, Carol. 

 BURGER: Okay. Jim, a couple of questions. Am I misunderstanding something? You booked $190 million in gains in whole loans and you took security gains of 189 million and they're both in - other, other income? 

 HANCE: No, the securities gains are on a separate line item. And the whole loans are another item just as they've always been. 

 BURGER: And where are the security gains? 

 HANCE: The security gains, there is a line item says security gains on the income statement. 

 BURGER: It says equity. 

 HANCE: No, there's another one that says security gains, Carol. 

 BURGER: Oh, sorry. Missed it. My other question was could you talk a little bit about the [inaudible] and data processing? 

 HANCE: The what? 

 BURGER: Data processing. 

 HANCE: Oh, yeah, the data processing is a continuing outsourcing some of the activities and some of the charges for viewpoint and things like that which is our imaging joint venture with the other major banks. And secondly, and importantly, a $45 million one-time expense for termination of a software license that is no longer being used. 

 BURGER: So we can expect it to go back to more like the second quarter level? 

 HANCE: It will drop off, exactly. 

 BURGER: Okay. Thanks. 

 HANCE: Next question. 

 OPERATOR: Again for telephone participants, please preses the 1 on your touch tone phone to register. 

 OPERATOR: We'll take a question from the line of Judah Krishare with Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead. 

 Krishare (ph): Good morning, Jim. 

 HANCE: Good morning, Judah. 

 Krishare (ph): A couple things on the consumer and commercial banking business you have 11 percent revenue growth which is great. I was wondering on the 11 percent on the expense growth and I was curious whether there may have been any distortions in the 11 percent, whether the pension charge might have gotten put there. And, you know, I'm sure you're having double digit revenue growth sort of takes the heat off of delivering positive operating leverage. I'm curious what you're targeting for a revenue versus expense cap going forward. 

 HANCE: Let me take the last one first. We're still targeting that 4 percent leverage, Judah, in all of our businesses. In our planning for 2003. Clearly we won't hit it in every one, but that's our basic positive leverage target. By that I mean if revenues are predicted to go up 6 percent or plan to go up 6 percent, expenses can go too, and vice versa. If revenues are planned flat, expenses have to come down. 

 So we're still in that mode as we put our plan together and we think we'll get continuing positive operating leverage just as we have this year. Judah, in looking at consumer and commercial, I actually have expenses going up 7 percent on the sheet that I'm looking at here, which may be different than - 

 Krishare (ph): In the press release there was a line in the commentary it's a total revenue 11 percent while expenses increased 11 percent. 

 HANCE: I don't see it here on what I'm looking at. Net income went up second, third to third by 22.7 in consumer commercial. The pension is not in there other than coming through an overhead allocation - the additional 55. 

 Krishare (ph): I guess maybe the difference is looking at a single quarter versus year-to-date. 

 HANCE: Wait a minute, let me look at year to date. Kevin tells me the 11 percent excludes the amortization. 

 KRISHARE: So kind of cash expenses ; is that correct? 

 HANCE: Right. 

 Krishare (ph): I would think that's a fair way to look at it. I just was curious. 

 HANCE: Year to date is year to date, nine months to nine months is 9 percent revenue for consumer commercial and expenses including the amortization is 2.4. So that would be higher on an apples-to-apples basis. 

 Krishare (ph): And if you excluded at amortization? 

 HANCE: I don't know what it is. I'd have to figure it out. 

 Krishare (ph): The other thing I wanted to follow-up on is the gain that you had on the whole mortgage sale on that other income line, you said it was 190 million. I'm curious when you think about these forward sales that you contracted to do, I assume you're looking to a fairly high number going forward on that line item. They give us a sense of what to expect there and if you pulled out the 190 million on the other hand this quarter without that gain seems like it would have been pretty low, curious what the components would have been in there. 

 HANCE: The going forward, yes, you're going to see, if you will, guard against holding a lot of mortgages. You saw us ramp up the whole level of mortgages and the throughput has been so heavy we're going to continue to have whole loan sales going forward just to manage that overall risk going forward. So you will see some whole loan gains sales going forward in the fourth quarter and into next year as well. In terms of what else is in there, let me find it for you here. Let's see if I can help you with it. Clearly the -- that's the biggest piece in the third quarter on a comparative basis. Let me see what else is in there for you. You really -- you've got some auto lease residual negative numbers, you've got some negative numbers in there that are offsetting it some, otherwise it would be fairly normal. Okay? 

 Krishare (ph): Okay. But basically I assume 150 million or quarter million, would that be a good guess or any way to dimension a best guess? 

 HANCE: It should be in the area of more like 100 to slightly higher going forward, but more like 100 in the fourth, perhaps up a little higher. We're going to have to see, Judah, how we feel about holding these mortgages. 

 Krishare (ph): Okay. Thanks, Jim. 

 HANCE: Okay. 

 Krishare (ph): Thank you. 

 ))OPERATOR: Tom McAnalyst with KBW (ph). Go ahead. 

 MCANALYST: Good morning, Jim, congratulations on a good quarter. 

 HANCE: Thank you, Tom. 

 MCANALYST: Three questions. Respect to trading were there any gains on credit derivatives? 

 HANCE: Yes, we do have some and it's clearly in the trading line, as it has been in the prior quarters. It's about the same, second to third, a little higher in the third and we don't disclose it. 

 MCANALYST: Second question, and you may have mentioned this, what was the total dollar figure for the mortgage servicing? 

 HANCE: The drop in this quarter just the second to the third quarter in the mortgage servicing intangible is a billion and a half dollars. 

 MCANALYST: Not the intangible but the portfolio that you're servicing. 

 HANCE: Oh, you know, I don't know what it is. It's slightly under 300 billion, relatively flat. 

 MCANALYST: Okay. Last question, what is the outlook for core deposit growth in your commercial and retail bank in the fourth quarter? 

 HANCE: Commercial retail banking deposit growth continues to be strong. I mean, we have been running 5, 6, 7 kind of percent increase numbers and you know, you tend to have a little ramp up at the end of the year. So coming from the commercial side some, so it could even be a little higher. You tend to get a little seasonal jump on the commercial side, Tom, as you know, so we would expect fourth quarter to be good. All the through puts so far in the month of October have been fine. 

 MCANALYST: If I could squeeze in one last question, again, the comments you made on middle market and commercial, the increases in non-performing were how much? 

 HANCE: They're all corporate. Middle market non-performing went down. 

 MCANALYST: Okay. 

 HANCE: Okay? 

 MCANALYST: And you were citing some number, was it 400 million? 

 HANCE: That was corporate, large corporate went up 446. 

 MCANALYST: And middle market went up down by how much? 

 HANCE: 17 percent, Kevin tells me. Middle market went down. 

 MCANALYST: Thanks. 

 HANCE: Sure. 

 ))OPERATOR: We'll go next to the line of Chris Matassio with Legg Mason. Please go ahead. 

 ANALYST: Good morning, Jim. Question on the trends of the 90 days past due. Up a fair amount I guess from abnormally low second quarter, but if I normalize it to previous quarters it was up a little by. Is that coming from consumer, resi, any concern on that line item? 

 HANCE: Yeah, the credit card, 30 and 90 day past due went down so the mortgage went up slightly in terms of 90 days past due, and that's predominantly a function of fact we're holding onto more mortgages as opposed to a deterioration of the ones that we have. So as we sell those mortgages or otherwise reduce that level you'll see that come back down again. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Thank you. 

 WELCH: We'll go next to the line of Lisa Welch with John Hancock. Please go ahead. 

 WELCH: Oh my god, I'm not on there. I didn't push anything. (Laughter) 

 OPERATOR: Apparently we have no further questions from the telephone. 

 HANCE: Questions here in the room? Yes. 

 ANALYST: [inaudible] 

 HANCE: GDP. 

 ANALYST: [inaudible]. 

 HANCE: Yeah. Good question. the question is are we forecasting to our economist forecast 2 percent GDP growth next year the and are we also forecasting a fed tightening and is that built in? 

 The answer is yes to both of those things. We are, in fact, forecasting a fed tightening mid year. And secondly, we are forecasting 2 percent at least, all right. In some cases we think it may be higher and probably will be higher if it leads to a fed tightening earlier. earlier. So yes to that. Yes. 

 ANALYST: [inaudible] 

 HANCE: Sure. The question is, you know, we are happy with our core deposit growth and our growth in domestic deposits and what do we see that, do we see that as some sort of move from equity accounts or what. 

 A couple of things here. The way we measure core deposits and the way we're experiencing core deposit, it kind of eliminates what we consider to be hot money. And we are seeing some increase in money market accounts and money market mutual funds, all right, and that has been fairly heavy, although now the mutual fund number started to turn a little and there's been some outflow on the money market mutual fund recently, whereas there had been an inflow in the last year. 

 In the deposit realm, most of what we're getting in the deposit realm in the consumer deposit growth, it's coming from new accounts and new customers as opposed to a lot of new dollars from existing customers. As I mentioned to you, we have had tremendous growth this year in new accounts, and that's new net accounts, and a 401,000 roughly so far through the 9 months. And what that means is we're losing less than we were before, and/or gaining more or both. And that is bringing dollars with it. And a lot of the core deposit is coming from there as opposed to a flight from something else. Look at our mutual fund business just to recap, you'll see flight from equities into money market businesses, money market categories, if you will. Not so much in the deposits. Yes, Jodie? 

 ANALYST: [inaudible]. 

 HANCE: Good question. Question is there a catalyst for the new deposit growth. I think there are a number of things. One, we're paying comparable rates. In other words, rates such as they are, right, we are at least in the market realm of paying a market rate. Second, we have had a huge focus on customer service, improving customer satisfaction, and that has had an impact on less attrition of customers in accounts. Third, we have a new account called "my access checking" and "my access checking" is a very customer friendly account that is in fact drawing in a number of new customers as well at a very reasonable level and price for that customer. And finally, in "my access checking" fits in there a little bit, but finally we've really focused on trying to match our products with the customer needs as opposed to being mismatched. And that has helped across the board in terms of having the customer has the right suite of products at the right price for what they want. That again has helped satisfaction and cut down attrition levels. All of that is adding to it. 

 As far as the regions go, California is still very strong. Florida is strong as well, but we have had decent growth across all aspects of the franchise with these new initiatives. Questions? Yes, Ron. 

 ANALYST: [inaudible] 

 HANCE: The question is are we affected by the FFIAC rule on accounting for fees and reserves for fees and things like that and the answer is yes to that. We, in fact, have already taken care of that with an additional allocation of the loan loss reserve into credit card reserves. 

 ANALYST: [inaudible] 

 HANCE: There's no P&L impact. Okay. I guess we're done . Thank you all very much for your attention, and we appreciate your support for us this quarter. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021024dyaf00338
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q2  2002  Bank  of  America  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
4,286 words
   PD
15 July 2002
   ET
01:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . James Vance, Jr., Vice Chairman & CFO   . Kevin Stitt, Investor Relations 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Consumer Banking growth and expense control led to 2Q earnings growth. Investment banking fees saw solid growth, but trading and equity investments saw revenue reduction. Consumer growth was strong with new accounts and deposits. Q&A Focus: consumer growth strategy, tax calculations, macro-economic impact on forward activity. 

 FINANCIAL DATA 

 A. Key Data from Call  2Q Earnings = $2.2b; 2Q diluted EPS = $1.40; Non-performing assets  down 1%; Average core domestic deposits up 5% from 1Q, 7% from year  ago; 2Q total net charge-offs: $888m. 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. Operational Review (JV)   1. 2Q results were generally in line with expectations laid out in      January.   2. Earnings = $2.2b. EPS = $1.40 diluted bases, up $0.02 from 1Q      and up 5% from one year ago after adjusting for the elimination      of goodwill and amortization. 3. Consumer business performed well both in earnings and metrics produced. Making progress in deepening and growing customer      base. 4. Asset management had good revenue growth in 2Q, reflecting seasonal tax activity and other items.   5. Investment banking fixed income and syndications had good      results.   6. Expense control good. Expenses were flat versus 1Q with some      slight improvement in efficiency ratio.   7. Charge-offs rose from 1Q level but not to degree anticipated.   8. Non-performing assets were down 1%.   9. Average core domestic deposits grew an annualized 5% from 1Q,      and $21b or 7% from year ago.   10. Common shares outstanding dropped 29m shares, or 2% from 1Q.   11. Average diluted shares rose from 1Q due to 13% increase in      average stock price between 1Q and 2Q.   12. Net interest margin and asset generation:     1. In 2Q on fully taxed equivalent basis, net interest income        rose $15m.     2. Higher trading assets, higher core deposits, and extra day in        quarter added about $90m to net interest income for quarter.     3. Lower discretionary portfolio (including residential        mortgages) lowered net interest income by $45m.     4. Lower loan levels and other items lowered net interest income        by about $30m.   13. Actions driving discretionary portfolio lower:     1. Sale of another $4b of securitized, sub-prime real-estate        loans.     2. Bulk of security gains recognized in 2Q was result of this        sale.     3. BAC sold $6b in 1Q and still have $5b remaining on balance        sheet. Securitization done in December to move all sub-prime        loans into securitized category.   14. Net interest margin compressed 10bp 2Q.     1. Better core funding and better loan mix (more consumer loans        and less commercial loans) improved margin by 5bp.     2. Increase was more than offset by higher levels of low-margin        trading assets and lower swap portfolio. These reduced it by        15bps.   15. Loan levels volatile and will continue for a while.   16. Exiting some relationships and will continue for rest of the      year. Direction of this portfolio down but benefit is increased      shareholder value-added and improved credit quality. 17. Middle-market remains sluggish. Any growth offset by pay-downs and client rationalizations.   18. Large originator of residential mortgages. Generally use      product for asset-liability management. It can go up or down,      quarter to quarter, depending upon interest-rate outlook.   19. In credit card portfolio, securitization activity makes balance-sheet comparison difficult. As scheduled, some securitizations have matured and are returning to balance sheet. Did not make economic sense to re-securitize these asset due to liquidity position. Some growth is not due to current originations.   20. Since year-end 2000, reduced commercial loans on net basis by      $52b. Consumer loans associated with exited businesses reduced      by about $26b. Reduction in loans of $78b in 18 months while      increasing earnings.   21. Consumer and corporate lending are very important and will      continue to be important going forward. 22. Will be profitable by being selective on pricing and risk without being reliant on size of loan portfolio. 

 B. Overview of Individual Businesses (JV)   1. Consumer and Commercial Banking     1. Earned $1.4b, or 65% of 2Q corporate earnings.     2. ROE = 31%.     3. Earnings increase of 7% versus results of one year ago and 2%        from 1Q.     4. Revenue up 6% from one year ago and 1% from 1Q.     5. Revenue growth of 6% from last year was driven by net interest        income growth of 7% and fee income growth of 5%.     6. Total relationships grew 1% to 27.8m, driven by growth in net checking accounts. Net new checking accounts in 2Q increased 126k, bringing YTD total additions to 248k. This compares to        193k net new checking accounts for all 2001.     7. Active online bank customers grew 14% to 3.8m in 2Q from 1Q        levels. Active bill-pay customers increased 20% to 1.1m.     8. New checking account growth aids deposit growth. Average        deposits in consumer and commercial banks (represents bulk of        core deposits) up 6% from one year ago. From 1Q, average        deposits up an annualized 5%.     9. Fee income driven by service charges and card fees offset by        lower mortgage servicing activity.     10. Service charges rose 7% to almost $1b and benefited from        higher consumer and commercial fees.     11. Card income increase of 3% does not adequately reflect growth        due to impact of about $2b in securitizations returned to        balance sheet in past 12 months. Securitizations maturing and        returning to the balance sheet add to net interest income but        decrease fee income.     12. Total revenue on managed basis (including net interest income) for card services increased 13% to $1.2b from one year ago.     13. Of that 13%, debit card revenues increased 23% and credit        card revenues increased 11%.     14. Mortgage banking income decreased $61m from last year and a        like amount from 1Q this year due to lower production,        compressed margins, and lower servicing volumes.     15. Originations are down almost 20% to $14.4b in 2Q versus 1Q,        as BAC continues to focus on direct-to-customer business and        profitable pricing.   2. Global Corporate and Investment Banking     1. 2Q earnings up 11% from 1Q to $560m.     2. Return on equity = 20%.     3. Due to lower cost and higher revenues. 4. Total revenues and GCIB for 2Q were $2.4b up 1% from 1Q, as increases in investment banking more than offset decreases in trading.     5. Average loan decreased 4%, or $3b from 1Q as BAC experienced        pay downs and continued to exit relationships not meeting        hurdle rates for profitability.     6. Investment banking fees up 35% from 1Q and exceeded 2Q results        from year ago.     7. Securities underwriting increased 19% from 1Q to $231m, driven        by increases in equity and high yields.     8. Syndication fees almost doubled to $120m.     9. Advisory services increased fees to $80m. 10. Total trading-related revenue for 2Q was $752m, down 5% from 1Q.     11. Growth in interest-rate contracts more than offset by lower fixed income and equity trading results.     12. Non-interest income portion of trading-related revenue        amounted to $284m in 2Q. This is down from $358m in 1Q.     13. Trading in quarter adversely impacted as turmoil in telecom        and other issues created credit spreads to widen considerably        - particularly in high-yield, driving market values down.     14. Positive mark-to-market gains on certain credit-default swaps        and other hedges of credit exposure within global credit        products.     15. Global treasury services continued to do well as revenues        rose 3% from 1Q to about $450m. 3. Asset Management     1. Total revenues rose 4% over 1Q due to impact of seasonal tax        preparation fees, higher brokerage income, and higher mutual        fund fees.     2. Total revenue just down 1% from year ago. This is good        performance given drop in market valuation and the flow of        money out of equity investments.     3. Expense levels are up from 1Q levels as continue to expand distribution and capabilities in private bank and brokerage areas.     4. BAC on track to add 20% in financial advisors and relationship        managers this year.     5. Assets under management dropped to $297b from 1Q levels due to        lower equity valuations and lower money-market funds. This is        still up 2% from year ago levels.     6. Net income for asset management was down from 1Q due mainly to        higher provisioning expense related to one loan in private-bank area.   4. Equity Investment     1. Weak market continues to take toll.     2. Non-interest income was -$39m compared to +$16m in 1Q.     3. In principal investing, cash gains and fair market adjustment        on publicly-traded portfolio were approximately $170m in 2Q.        This was offset by impairments of about $215m. YTD impairments        totaled $355m versus $335m for all 2001. 

 C. Corporate Performance (JV)   1. Total net charge-offs for 2Q were $888m - annualized 1.06% of      loan portfolio versus 1.04% in 1Q and 0.82% year ago.   2. On consumer side, overall results better than expectations.      Excluding credit card consumer charge-offs improved from 1Q      results. 2Q down $57m and charge-off ratio down 19bps to 0.27%.   3. Managed credit card charge-off ratio increased 16bps to 5.59%.      Increase was less than expected.   4. 30 and 90-day delinquency rates in credit cards improved by      38bps and 19bps, respectively.   5. In commercial loan portfolio (middle market and large corporate      loans), net charge-offs increased to 1.32% of portfolio, up from      1.09% in 1Q due mainly to lower recoveries in 2Q.   6. Gross charge-offs for 2Q before recoveries to commercial      portfolio were up 6% from 1Q in line with guidance earlier this      year.   7. Total non-performing assets decreased 1% from 1Q to $4.9b.   8. Increases in commercial non-performing loans were more than      offset by decreases in foreclosed properties.   9. Driving much of commercial inflow in 2Q was net addition of      $178m of Argentina-related loans to non-performing status.   10. As of 6/30/02, $338m of Argentina-related loans were on      non-performing.   11. Had charge offs related to Argentina in 2Q of approximately      $36m.   12. At end of June, total binding Argentina-related exposure was      $541m.   13. Overall, sold $130m of commercial non-performing loans in 2Q      and $16m of foreclosed commercial real estate.   14. Outstanding telecom loans at quarter-end were down 16% from      March levels to $3.7b or 1% of total loan portfolio. Have been      aggressive in reducing telecom exposure in past 6 quarters.      Since year-end 2000, outstanding telecom loans are down 45%.   15. Credit quality is starting to stabilize in certain segments,      but there are isolated pockets such as telecom that will have      continued volatility.   16. Shared national credit exam completed in 3Q. This year's exam      was consistent with internal ratings system. Have incorporated      results of exam in 2Q.   17. Capital Management     1. Preliminary tier 1 capital ratios dropped to 8.1% as result of        higher share repurchases and higher levels of risk-rated        assets at period end.     2. During 2Q BAC purchased 51m shares and issued 22m shares related to exercise of options for net reduction of 29m shares.     3. While exercise of options will continue to go forward, BAC        doesn't expect this type of volume on continual basis. Repurchase activity will be more in line with last year.     4. Current repurchase authorization has 50m shares remaining,        which is sufficient for repurchase for rest of this year.     5. At these levels, tier 1 should be 8% or slightly higher for        rest of year. 

 D. Forward Outlook (JV)   1. Outlook for 2002 continues to be modest revenue growth, tight      expense growth, and continued high levels of loan charge-offs.   2. View recent economic data positively and believe recovery will      continue to gain strength.   3. Although, haven't seen it in inventory building or capital      spending among middle-market companies.   4. Outlook for rising rates, but expect increase later than      originally thought.   5. Use discretionary portfolio to manage interest-rate risk.   6. In anticipation of rising rates, kept discretionary portfolio      low. This sacrificed spread that additional assets would have      provided. Since expectations for rising rates pushed out, may      increase size of discretionary portfolio to benefit from current      steep yield curve but not enough to hurt when rates do rise.      This increase, along with additional deposit growth and consumer      loan growth, should help net interest income rise modestly.   7. Domestic non-interest bearing deposits are up on an average      basis from 1Q levels but down from period-end-to-period-end      basis. Decline in period-end is associated with cash-management      business with US government. Periodically, government withdraws      cash for a couple of days and then re-deposits cash to maintain      certain minimum balances. This quarter was once of those      instances, and it was at quarter end.   8. Low interest-rate environment has helped consumer to manage debt      levels.   9. Consumer spending expected to continue to be volatile.   10. Investment banking backlog at end of 2Q was essentially flat      with 1Q. It is very market sensitive, particularly with high      yields, and will continue to increase, but not at rates at      beginning of year.   11. Credit card performance should continue to compare favorably to industry. Portfolio remains weighted toward relationship      accounts. 12. On commercial side, gross charge offs will remain high for rest of year, but just in a few industries rather than across the board.   13. Middle market portfolio has stabilized and large corporate will      be event driven and erratic.   14. Commercial non-performing loans have continued to rise so far      this year as had expected, but not certain this increase will      continue.   15. Gross commercial additions to non-performing in 2Q were $1.2b      versus average of $1.4b last two quarters.   16. Flow of credits into criticized status still lower than 2001      and is centered around certain sectors. Criticized levels down      slightly from 1Q levels.   17. Unable to call a turn in credit picture at this time, although      things look brighter today than in past few months. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1.  What is your overall comfort on the level of corporate portfolio, and what do you expect to see in the large corporate portfolio going forward? 

 A. (James Vance)  Our large corporate portfolio has come down dramatically. We're in  the $60b level from nearly $100b-plus a year ago. We brought total  exposure down and diversified portfolio. We're starting to see  activity in terms of refinances, securitizations, etc. We're taking  opportunity to reposition, re-price, re-diversify, and lower  exposure, etc. Going forward, the biggest unknown still surrounds  more volatile industries. Telecom exposure 1% of loans. Those are  diversified across the board and had minimal exposure to WorldCom. For Argentina, 100% of loans on non-performing status. We're aggressive to bring Argentina total exposure down and are charging  off as necessary. We're in relatively stable and good position, but  not immune. Telecom and perhaps energy have two of the higher risk  elements going forward. Also, we're in period for next month or so  where executives re-certifying financial statements. Banks still  highly regulated and under so many constraints and exams that there  will not likely be surprises from banks, and certainly not BAC, as  process goes forward. Overall feeling good with adequate reserves of  150% coverage of non-performing assets and an overall reserve level  of about 2% of total loans and mix moves towards consumer business. 

 Q2.  How are you handling your share count? What is the progress of Six  Sigma? What is your response to tying? 

 A. (James Vance)  Share count came down dramatically. June-end outstanding share is  1.515b. What drove average diluted up was function of average and  rise of stock price by 13% for quarter. That took average up. Going  forward, we don't expect to see so many option exercises or  purchases. We hope to see rise in share price. Will balance that as  going forward - keep up with it and repurchase for all options  exercises. Earnings stable at over $2b per quarter and cash flow  stable. Expect some rise in earnings assets will add some risk - will continue share buy back. For Six Sigma, we're making good progress on quality control and benefits in customer acceptance and growth. This is seen in expenses continuing to be flat or down.  We're seeing it in net new checking accounts, deposit growth,  somewhat in mortgage book and success with new loan solutions  project, in some customer-satisfaction surveys, and in credit card.  We expect it to continue to play out as move forward. It's allowing  businesses to become more effective and productive. We can see it in  leverage number for consumer and commercial business. BAC doesn't  tie. We're highly regulated and examined. These look at tying. We  will be cooperative and will do what is necessary to address issue  of tying. We expect all major banks will be re-examined for tying. 

 Q3.  What is the gross number for market gains on credit-default included  in BAC's trading revenues? 

 A. (James Vance)  I'm not sure of gross number. It moves around quarter-to-quarter.  That is a positive and whole high-yield book threw it away. They  tend to balance. We expect activities and credit derivatives to  grow. We're taking short and long position. 

 Q4.  What is  your exposure in Brazil? 

 A. (James Vance)  We have a little under $2b in exposure to Brazil. A lot of that is  lending and other activities. We're  trying to reduce book and be  cautious. Doing heavy monitoring and carefully awaiting election  outcome. Brazil economy is strong, the risk is political, which is  different than Argentina. 

 Q5.  Do you expect to get sued on WorldCom, and where are you on legal reserves? 

 A. (James Vance)  We will likely be on both sides. Banks are suing WorldCom. We will  also be sued most likely. We will continually assess risk of those  suits and fill legal reserves if necessary to do that or build them  up to deductibility levels on insurance. It's something we will  continue to do. Current environment adds to legal risk and expense  to fighting it. 

 Q6.  What are your levels of insurance? 

 A. (James Vance)  We have varying levels of insurance up to $400m with varying  deductibles depending on situation, nature, specific name, or policy  year. Much of the D.E. Shaw (ph) settlement came from insurance company. 

 Q7.  Can you give information on deposits and net new accounts? 

 A. (James Vance)  We had 148k net new checking accounts in 2Q same, or roughly low, in  1Q. 248k for 1H compares with 190k for all of last year. Can see in  deposit growth. It's been 7% concentrated in non-interest bearing  and interest-bearing checking accounts. Reduction in market-based  deposits, because can borrow cheaper elsewhere. Part of Six Sigma  activities and repricing are looking at entire deposit world. We're  turning churn action into net growth action. We're up $20b YtoY (June-to-June) in terms of core deposits. 

 Q8.  How are you retaining deposits and how are you positioned? 

 A. (James Vance)  We're positioned for interest rates to rise. We have been positioned  since late fall. This was early and wrong. We didn't have as much  spread as could have had on large discretionary portfolios if  positioned more neutral. Still positioned for rise in rates. We will  up discretionary portfolios some. Deposits keep up with market pricing. We don't want to lose customer relationships. Plan on being at median price across franchise and hang on to money. Most money coming as checking and non-interest bearing accounts. Money market funds affected more than money-marketdeposits. We think core  deposits will stay there and continue to rise. 

 Q9.  What are your concerns for rising rates? 

 A. (James Vance)  We welcome higher rates. As level moves up, there will be parallel  shift will to benefit BAC, because liability side doesn't price as  fast as asset side. Expect flattening that would be slightly  negative. Rising rates help this year and next year. 12 month better  than 6 month look for rising rates. We will move and do better as  rates up. 

 Q10.  Can you quantify effectively the benefit of national branding on what we're seeing in deposit growth and attracting new accounts? 

 A. (James Vance)  Not directly. We're seeing better survey results in term of  recognition, potential new business, knowing who we are, convenience, etc. Our goal was to get into positive column - to have net new checking and deposits, hang on to them, and have good return rate. All is a factor with pricing, service, and branding,  stability, and name. We're seeing strong growth in Hispanic markets  in CA, TX, FL - part is the branding effort and part is name. 

 Q11. (Judah (ph) Krouscher (ph), Merrill Lynch)  Can you reconcile rise in trading assets with drop in trading income  in terms of asset productivity, size seasonal tax preparation fees,  and give metric in terms of success in terms of cutting attrition  rates for customers/employees? 

 A. (James Vance)  We've cut attrition rate in both in associates and customers - associates around 17% down from 20s. This varies by unit. We're down  1800 associates quarter-to-quarter. Effect of trust fees was $22m  for quarter. On reconciliations, balances up and positions up and results down - bad correlation.  We were impacted by spread widening and trading losses. 

 Q12. (Judah (ph) Krouscher (ph), Merrill Lynch)  On asset-management side, aside from tax preparation, were your  brokerage revenues up? 

 A. (James Vance)  We did well on brokerage (consumer and institutional) this quarter.  We're starting to see more consistent flow and nice growth in  brokerage side. Nothing in trading world portends problem forward - markets volatile and unstable - managing through will be key. 

 Q13. (Tom McCandless (ph), KBW)  On trading side, you've discussed foreign-exchange results - how  much was offset on gain of mark-to-market credit default swaps? 

 A. (James Vance)  In trading for 2Q, foreign exchange contracts were 133m compared to  127m 1Q. Interest rate was 174 versus 144; fixed income was -119  versus -19; equities trading 66 versus 82; commodities and other  were 30 and 24; credit derivative not known. The effect of mark-to-market on mortgage servicing portfolio FAS 133 adjustment  was -30. 

 Q14. (Tom McCandless (ph), KBW)  What is your outlook for 2H for net interest income? 

 A. (James Vance)  Will add to net interest income growth. Seeing less of a drop in  corporate, nice inflow of deposits, and expect slight rise in rates.  Expect net interest income to be decent to strong. We were down $55b  in average earning assets YoverY - that has taken toll in interest  income. 

 Q15. (Tom McCandless (ph), KBW)  With lower consumer losses than expected, how does that impact  guidance for charge-offs this year? 

 A. (James Vance)  We're leaving guidance where it is, because of uncertain times.  We're well positioned to weather it through and are seeing less  charge-offs. We hope it continues for year. 

 Q16.  Will you continue expense control and what does it mean in more robust economy? 

 A. (James Vance)  We've had good expense control, and economy has helped some in doing  that. Six Sigma efforts helped. We're effectively at 51% efficiency  ratio now. Our goal is to get to 50% as soon as can. Hope that when  economy turns around and we have more robust revenue growth, we'll  have more robust expense growth. If commercial lending starts to  pick up with economy, so will expenses. We expect efficiency ratio  to be maintained. We maintain customer relationship and profitability rises across board. We're  not changing focus from organic growth. We have untapped potential in franchise not tapped  yet for a lot of additional customers. Also, customers than can be  doing more business with us. This continues to be area of focus. We  need more people on ground. We will hit goal of 20% force this year.  Could do that through acquisition and not immune to external  opportunities, but we're not focusing on that. 

 Q17.  What was your tax rate and what impacted it? 

 A. (James Vance)  Tax rate went down from 34% to 32.5% 1Q to 2Q. We're getting better  at forecasting tax position is. In prior years, we carried at 34%  and adjusted in 4Q. We're trying to do it more evenly going forward.  We had slightly higher lower-income tax credit. This had impact on  reducing quarterly run rate. We shifted in to FTE from being out of  FTE, leading to adjustment in pre-tax FTE. 

 Q18.  Do you use a blended tax rate? 

 A. (James Vance)  Yes, we use a blended first-half rate - a combination of 34% and  32.5% rate. 

 Q19.  Is everything the same in FTE? 

 A. (James Vance)  Yes, everything is the same in FTE. Foreign tax credits have big  play and will adjust as to low-income housing credits presence. 

 Q20.  Results to stock market have been greater than anticipated. What do  you have left? 

 A. (James Vance)  We can  see effect of more volatile stock market in asset management  fees (lower than anticipated), lower equities, and lower values.  These are translated to principle investing. We expected it to have  turned by now. We're  suffering from lack of liquidity events and  continuing impairments. Trading volumes are materially less than  last year, affected by market turmoil. This is much worse than anticipated. We've  overcome it by better activities and volumes in other businesses. We're still looking for turnaround, but it's  further out than anticipated - same as higher rates. On principal  investing, we're very conservative and diverse We're not in high  tech and volatile industries so much. 

   NS
ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy7f004z8
  


 HD
 Q2  2002  Bank  of  America  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
8,979 words
   PD
15 July 2002
   ET
01:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR:  The following Webcast is a service of CCBN.  Please stand by. 

 KEVIN STITT, INVESTOR RELATIONS, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION:  Good morning everyone.  I'm Kevin Stitt, Bank of America Investor Relations. And before Jim Hance, our Chief Financial Officer begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks of actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.  These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions and interest rates, market rates and prices, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. 

   TD
 For further information on these factors, I would like to refer you to our quarterly press release, as well as to SEC documents that we have filed previously.  And before I turn it over to Jim, for those of you who have the supplemental package next to you, Jim's remarks should flow fairly well with the, with the pages in that package.  And with that, let me turn it over to Jim.  Thank you. 

 JAMES HANCE, VICE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION:  Thank you Kevin.  Good morning everyone. Welcome, if you will, to a discussion of our second quarter earnings. Much like the first quarter, results were generally in line with our expectations that we laid out for you in January.  Earnings were $2.2 billion, or a $1.40 cents per share on a diluted basis.  And that was up two cents from first quarter results, and an increase of five percent from the second quarter year ago, after adjusting for the elimination of goodwill amortization. 

 Our consumer businesses for the most part continued to perform very well from an earnings perspective, as well as from a metrics, the metrics produced that show we are continuing to make progress in deepening and growing the customer base.  Asset management has good revenue growth during the quarter, reflecting seasonal tax activity, among other things.  Within investment banking, fixed income and syndications had very impressive results.  Our expense control was good, as expenses remained flat versus the first quarter, with some slight improvement in the efficiency ratio. 

 Charge-offs rose from first quarter levels, but not the degree that we had anticipated.  Non-performing assets were down one percent, which is definitely headed in the right direction.  Average core domestic deposits continue to grow and are up an annualized five percent from the first quarter and $21 billion, or seven percent in the second quarter a year ago. 

 Also, as you can see on page three of the supplemental package, common shares outstanding dropped 29 million shares, or two percent from the first quarter.  However, average diluted shares still rose from the prior quarter due to a 13 percent increase in average stock price between the first and second quarter.  Change in stock price, as you know, is a factor when computing fully diluted shares. 

 Now before I move into the individual businesses, let's talk a bit about the net interest margin and asset generation.  In the second quarter, on a fully taxed equivalent basis, net interest income rose $15 million.  Driving the increase was the impact of higher trading assets, higher core deposits and an extra day in the quarter, which in total added about $90 million to net interest income for the quarter. 

 Offsetting these additions were a lower discretionary portfolio, including residential mortgages, which lowered net interest income by approximately $45 (ph) million; and lower loan levels, plus other miscellaneous items, which lowered net interest income by approximately $30 million.  Now one of the actions driving the discretionary portfolio lower was the sale of another $4 billion (ph) of securitized sub-prime real estate loans.  The bulk of the security gains that you saw recognized this quarter was the result of this sale. 

 If you remember, we sold $6 billion of these in the first quarter and still have about $5 billion remaining on the balance sheet.  This was a securitization we did in December to move all of the sub-prime loans that we could into a securitized category.  Now I'll talk more about the overall discretionary portfolio in a few minutes. 

 The net interest margin compressed 10 basis points this quarter. Better core funding and a better loan mix, that could be translated as more consumer loans and less commercial loans, improved the margin by about five basis points.  But the increase was more than offset by higher levels of low margin trading assets and a lower (inaudible) portfolio.  That reduced it by about 15 basis points. 

 Now due to the current environment and various strategies we now employ, loan levels have been very volatile and probably will continue to be so for a while.  In the large corporate book, as you know, we are exiting some relationships and we will be doing so for at least the rest of this year.  So direction in this portfolio is down, but the benefit has increased (inaudible) value added and improved credit quality. 

 In the middle market book, activity remains sluggish and any growth is offset by pay-down and client rationalizations.  In residential mortgages we are a large originator.  But generally use the product for asset liability management, which means levels can go up or down quarter to quarter, depending upon our interest rate outlook. 

 In the credit card portfolio securitzation activity makes balance sheet comparisons somewhat more difficult.  As scheduled, some of our securitizations have matured and are returning to the balance sheet. Given our liquidity position it did not make economic sense to re-securitize these assets.  So part of the growth that you're seeing in credit card on the balance sheet is not due to current originations. 

 Now since year-end 2000, we have reduced commercial loans on a net basis by approximately $52 billion, and consumer loans associated with the exit of businesses by approximately $26 billion.  This is a reduction in loans of $78 billion in 18 months, even in (inaudible) we have increased earnings.  To put this number into context, the ninth largest bank in the country has about 70 billion in loans. 

 Now consumer and corporate lending have been very important to us, and will, and will continue to be important to us going forward.  But as we are demonstrating, it is our strategy to be profitable by being selective on pricing and risk, without being reliant on the size of the loan portfolio.  OK, let's take a look at the individual businesses, which in your supplement starts on page six. 

 Consumer and commercial banking earned $1.4 billion, or 65 percent of the corporation's second quarter earnings, with return on equity of 31 percent.  This was an earning's increase of seven percent versus results a year ago, and an increase of two percent from the first quarter. Revenue is up six percent from a year ago, and one percent from the first quarter.  Because of seasonality in some of the consumer businesses, we believe a better comparison for revenue trends is with the second quarter of last year. 

 The revenue growth of six percent from last year was driven by net interest income growth of seven percent, and fee income growth of five percent.  Total relationships grew one percent, to 27.8 million, driven by additional growth in our net checking accounts.  In the second quarter alone, net new checking accounts increased 126,000, bringing the year to date total additions to 248,000.  This compares to 193,000 net new checking accounts for all of 2001. 

 Active online bank customers grew 14 percent to 3.8 million during the quarter from first quarter levels.  While active bill pay customers increased 20 percent, to 1.1 million customers.  This new checking account growth continues to aid our deposit growth, as average deposits in consumer and commercial bank, which represent the bulk of our core deposits, were up six percent from a year ago.  In the first quarter, average deposits are up an annualized five percent. 

 Looking at fee income in the consumer and commercial bank, the main drivers affecting growth over the past 12 months were service charges and card fees, offset by lower mortgage servicing activity.  Service charges rose seven percent to almost $1 billion, and benefited from higher consumer and commercial fees.  The card income increase of three percent does not adequately reflect growth due to the impact of approximately $2 billion in securitization that have returned to the balance sheet over the past 12 months. 

 Securitizations maturing and returning to the balance sheet add to the net interest income of course, but decrease fee income.  If you look at total revenue on a managed basis, including net interest income, card services revenue increased 13 percent to $1.2 billion from results a year ago.  Of that 13 percent, debit card revenues increased 23 percent, while credit card revenues increased 11 percent. 

 Mortgage banking income decreased $61 million from last year, an alike amount from the first quarter of this year, due to lower production, compressed margin and lower servicing volumes.  Versus the first quarter, originations are down almost 20 percent to $14.4 billion, as we continue to focus on direct to customer business at profitable pricing. 

 OK.  Turning to global, corporate and investment banking, earnings in the second quarter rose 11 percent from the first quarter to $560 million, with return on equity of 20 percent, due to lower credit costs and higher revenues.  Total revenues in TCIB (ph) for the quarter were $2.4 billion, up one percent from the first quarter, as increases in investment banking more than offset the decreases that you saw in trading. 

 Average loans decreased four percent, or $3 billion from the first quarter, as we experienced pay-downs and as we continued to exit relationships that don't meet our hurdle (ph) rates for profitability. Investment banking fees were up 35 percent from the first quarter and even exceeded results from the second quarter a year ago. 

 Securities underwriting increased 19 percent from the first quarter to $231 million.  That was driven by increases in both equity and high yield.  Syndication fees almost doubled to $120 million.  Even advisory services increased their fees to $80 million. 

 Total trading-related revenue for the second quarter was $752 million. And that was a decrease of five percent from the first quarter. Growth and interest rate contracts was more than offset by lower fixed income and equity trading results.  The non-interest income portion of trading-related revenue amounted to $284 million in the quarter, and that was down from $358 million in the first quarter of this year. 

 Trading in the quarter was adversely impacted as turmoil in telecom and other issues created credit spreads to widen considerably, particularly in high yields, driving market values down.  Also in the results were positive mark to market gains on certain credit default swaps and other hedges of credit exposures within the global credit products.  Global treasury services continue to do well, as revenue rose three percent from the first quarter to approximately $450 million. 

 Now our third core business is asset management.  Total revenues here rose four percent over the first quarter, due to the impact of seasonal tax preparation fees, higher brokerage income and higher mutual fund fees.  Versus results a year ago, total revenue was only down one percent, which is very good performance given the drop in market valuation and the flow of money out of equity investments. 

 Expense levels are up from the first quarter levels, as we continue to expand our distribution and capabilities in both the private bank and the brokerage areas.  We are on track with our goal of adding 20 percent in both financial advisors and relationship managers this year. 

 Assets under management dropped to $297 billion from first quarter levels, due to the lower equity valuations and lower money market funds. We're still up two percent versus levels a year ago. 

 Net income for asset management was down from first quarter results, due mainly to higher provision expense related to one loan in the private bank area.  Our fourth and final business segment is equity investments.  The weak markets continue to take their toll here. Non-interest income was a negative $39 million, compared to a positive $16 million in the first quarter. 

 In principal investing, cash gains and their fair market, and the fair market adjustment on publicly traded, on the publicly traded portfolio, was approximately $170 million in the second quarter.  But that was offset by impairments of approximately $215 million.  Year to date impairments have totaled $355 million, versus $335 million for all of 2001.  Now rather than discuss credit quality within each of the businesses, I thought it might be better to summarize the results here separately. 

 Total net charge-offs for the quarter were $888 million, and that's an annualized 1.06 percent of the loan portfolio, versus the 1.04 percent in the first quarter, and .82 percent a year ago.  On the consumer side, overall results were somewhat better than our expectations. Excluding credit card, consumer charge-offs improved from first quarter results, both in dollar terms, down about $57 million, and in a lower charge-off ratio, down 19 basis points to .27 percent. 

 The managed credit card charge-off ratio increased 16 basis points, to 5.59 percent, but the increase was less than we expected.  Both the 30-day, and the 90-day delinquency rates in consumer credit cards improved by 38 basis points and 19 basis points respectively.  In the commercial loan portfolio, which includes both middle market and large corporate loans, net charge-offs increased to 1.32 percent of the portfolio.  This is up from 1.09 percent in the first quarter, due mainly to lower recoveries in the second quarter. 

 Those charge-offs for the quarter, before recovery, in the commercial portfolio, were up six percent from the first quarter results, and in line with guidance that we gave you earlier this year.  Total non-performing assets decreased one percent from the first quarter, to $4.9 billion, as increases in commercial non-performing loans were more than offset by decreases in foreclosed properties.  Driving much of the commercial inflow this quarter, was the net addition of $178 million of Argentina related loans to the non-performing status.  As of June 30th, $338 of Argentina related loans were on non-performing. 

 We also had charge-offs related to Argentina this quarter of approximately $36 million.  At the end of June, total binding Argentina related exposure was $541 million.  Now leaving Argentina if you will, and return to the overall portfolio, we sold 130 million of commercial non-performing loans this quarter and $16 million of foreclosed commercial real estate.  These actions of what we have done in the prior quarters reflect the attitude that we have in managing problems vigorously.  Our size and scale obviously allow us to dedicate resources and focus on problems with very quick resolutions. 

 Outstanding telecom loans at quarter end were down 16 percent from March levels to $3.7 billion, or one percent of our total loan portfolio.  We have been fairly aggressive in reducing our telecom exposure over the past six quarters.  Since year-end 2000, outstanding telecom loans are down 45 percent. 

 And we actually think that credit quality is starting to stabilize in certain segments.  But there are still isolated pockets, like telecom, where we will see one-off (ph) events and continued volatility.  The shared (ph) national accredit (ph) exam won't be officially completed until the third quarter.  But this year's exam was very consistent with our internal ratings system.  With only a few exceptions for situations not resolved by the regulators by quarter end, we have incorporated results of the exam in our second quarter. 

 Now turning to capital management for a moment, the preliminary tier one capital ratio dropped to 8.1 percent, as a result of higher share repurchases, as well as higher levels of risk-rated assets at period end.  During the quarter we purchased 51 million shares and we issued 22 million shares related to the exercise of options, for a net reduction of 29 million shares.  While the exercise of options will continue going forward, we don't expect this type of volume on a continual basis. 

 Consequently, you should expect us to bring our repurchase activity back down to a level more in line with last year.  Our current repurchase authorization has about 50 million shares remaining, which is sufficient for repurchase the rest of this year.  At these levels, tier one should remain around eight percent or slightly higher for the rest of the year. 

 Now over the past six months we have been saying that 2002 would reflect modest revenue growth, tight expense control and continued high levels of loan charge-offs.  That continues to be our outlook. We interpret recent economic data positively and believe that the recovery will continue to gain strength.  Although we have yet to see it in inventory building or capital spending among our middle market companies. 

 Our outlook is still for rising rates, but we now expect an increase much later than we originally thought.  We use residential mortgages, securities and (inaudible), what we refer to as our discretionary portfolio, to manage our interest rate risk.  In anticipation of rising rates, we have kept the discretionary portfolio low.  By keeping it low, we have sacrificed any spread that additional assets would have provided. 

 Since our expectations for rising rates have been pushed out some, we may increase the size of our discretionary portfolio a bit to benefit from the current steep yield curve, but not enough to hurt us when rates do rise.  This increase, along with additional deposit growth and consumer loan growth, should help net interest income rise modestly. 

 By the way, most of you have noticed or will notice that domestic non-interest bearing deposits are up on average basis from first quarter levels, but down on a period end to period end basis. 

 The decline at period end is associated with our cash management business that we do with the U.S. government.  Bank of America does a lot of cash management for the government, and periodically the government withdraws cash for a couple of days, and then reposits the cash in order to maintain certain minimum balances.  This quarter was one of those instances, and it was at quarter end. 

 Now the low interest rate environment has helped the consumer manage his debt levels, and consequently, we expect consumer spending to continue at current levels.  Market sensitive revenues should track market activity, and will continue to be volatile.  Although the investment banking backlog at the end of the second quarter is essentially flat with the first quarter, it is very market sensitive, particularly in high-yield and equities, and deals can easily be pushed off. 

 As far as our outlook for credit quality going forward, we think that consumer charge-offs, especially credit card, will continue to increase, but not the rate that we had expected at the beginning of the year.  Our credit card performance should continue to compare favorably to the industry, as our portfolio composition remains weighted towards relationship accounts. 

 On the commercial side, we believe gross charge-offs will remain high through the rest of the year, but due mainly to a few industries, rather than deterioration across the board.  Our middle market portfolio appears to have stabilized, but large corporate will continue to be event driven and somewhat erratic.  Commercial non-performing loans have continued to rise so far this year, as we had expected.  But at this juncture, we are not as certain that the increase will continue.  Gross commercial additions to non-performing this quarter were 1.2 billion, versus an average of 1.4 billion during the past two quarters. 

 Last quarter we commented on how the flow of credits into criticized status has slowed materially.  That flow still remains lower than 2001, and is very centered around certain sectors.  Criticized levels are actually down slightly from first quarter levels.  Now given the unusual characteristics of this economic recovery, and the fragile state of the world economy, we are unable to call a turn in the credit picture at this time, although things do look brighter today than over the past few months. 

 Thanks for you attention, and I'd be happy to open up the floor to any questions that you might have.  Questions here? 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible) 

 JAMES HANCE:  Sure.  The question has to do with overall comfort on the level of the corporate portfolio, and sort of what we're seeing in the large corporate portfolio we expect going forward.  First I would say, in terms of our large corporate folio, it has come down dramatically.  I mean, we're now down in the roughly the $60 billion level from nearly 100 billion plus, kind of a year ago.  So we have done a good job of bringing the total exposure down. 

 We've also diversified that portfolio quite a bit.  When you see our concentration schedules, you'll notice we do not have much concentration anywhere. 

 Third, we're starting to see a lot of activity in terms of refinances, securitizations, et cetera.  We are taking that opportunity to either reposition, to re-price, to re-diversify, to lower our exposure, et cetera.  So that is all being helpful as we go through (inaudible). 

 In terms of going forward, we think the biggest - some of the biggest unknowns still centers around what I would call current more (ph) volatile industries.  Clearly telecom and the one-off (ph) announcement (inaudible) appear now to be coming on telecom.  Our telecom exposure, as I mentioned, is about one percent of total loans, fairly diversified across the board, and as you all know, I'm sure, we had minimal exposure, if any, to WorldCom.  So that was a bright spot for us. 

 We still think that portfolio is subject to one-off (ph) surprises. So we're watching it very carefully and monitoring it very carefully and still bringing it down - what we can. 

 In terms of Argentina, we have 100 percent of our loans now on non-performing status.  So we've been aggressive, if you will, continue to bring the total exposure down, continue to bring the domes (ph) down, and have been charging them off as we feel necessary. 

 So going forward, I think we're in a relatively stable and good position to weather what's out there.  That said, we're not immune from the one-off (ph) surprises.  And we think telecom, and perhaps energy, have two of the higher risk elements in terms of surprises in the companies going forward. 

 We also think we're in a period here that may last for a month or so, when executives are sort of re-certifying their financial statements. And that may or may not bring some surprises among our customer base. We'll just have to wait and see. 

 Banks, as you know, are so highly regulated and essentially are under constraints of so many laws and so many exams and confused exams already.  I don't expect that you'll see surprises on the accounting front coming from banks and financial institutions, or certainly us, as this certification process goes forward.  But we do think that is a risk until sort of the SEC has complied with in terms of certification.  And that may pop up something.  We're not sure what it is, but we're just being cognizant of it. 

 So overall we feel good about it.  We think we have adequate reserves. We're sitting with about 150 percent coverage of non-performing assets. We have an overall reserve level of about two percent of total loans. And, of course, our mix continues to move towards the consumer business. All of which is positive for us in this environment. 

 Chip (ph). 

 OPERATOR:  At this time, we will take questions from the phones.  If you'd like to register your site for a question, please press one on your touch-tone phone.  Once again, to register your site for a question, press one on your touch-tone phone. 

 JAMES HANCE:  Let me take each one (ph).  The question had to do with share count first. 

 Share count, as you know, came down dramatically.  Our year-end outstanding shares - sorry, month-end - June-end outstanding shares is 1,515,000,000 (ph).  I think I have that right. 

 What drove the average diluted up is a function, really, of the average, which means it's the whole quarter.  And secondly, the rise in the stock price by about 13 percent for the quarter.  So that effectively took the whole average up. 

 Going forward, we would not expect to see so many option exercises. We would also not expect to see as many purchases.  We would hope to see continued rise in share price. 

 So I mean we're going to have to balance that as we continue to go forward.  We will keep up with it.  We will certainly maintain repurchases for all option exercises and then some, because we still have good cash flow.  Our earnings are very stable and over two billion a quarter, our cash flow is very stable.  We expect some rise in earning assets, which adds to the risk rate, if you will, and therefore uses some capital, but it won't be dramatic.  So we should be able to continue to do share buybacks as we go forward. 

 Six Sigma was your second question, and on Six Sigma we're seeing very good progress on the productivity benefits and the quality control benefits of Six Sigma.  We're also seeing the benefits, if you will, in customer acceptance and customer growth.  Now where you can see that in all of our data, is in varying places.  You can see it in overall expense control.  Our expenses have continued to be flat or down as activity levels and business continues to rise.  You can see it in the net new checking accounts.  You can see it in deposit growth. 

 You can see it somewhat in our mortgage book, and the success we're having with our new loan solutions project, and you could see it in some of our customer satisfaction surveys.  And you can see it in credit card.  So it's sort of showing up across the board, if you will, predominantly in the commercial and consumer bank, the regional bank on the ground, if you will, and we would expect that to continue to play out as we go forward. 

 Very pleased with it, and it's allowing our businesses to become more effective, more productive use our expenses and get better leverage, if you will.  You can see it in the pure leverage numbers, in both consumer and commercial businesses, and in the GCIB business for that, for that matter. 

 Lastly on tine (ph) your question on reaction on tine (ph), first of all we don't tine (ph), second we are again highly regulated and continuously examined, and virtually every examination that occurs, be it a shared national and credit or otherwise, looks at tine (ph).  So we will be cooperative and do whatever we need to do to respond to the newest review of tine (ph), which was in the papers last week, to the extent we're asked.  So far we haven't been, but we would expect all the major banks will be reexamined for tine (ph).  And we'll see where that, where that exam goes. 

 Yes, Mike (ph). 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  You mentioned you had the mark to markets (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  Yes.  We had, question is we had some mark to market gains on credit defaults loss, which is included in our trading revenue number.  We not only do, we not only take short positions for our own book, but we do long positions as a business, Mike (ph), so both of that is in there.  And I'm not sure what the gross number is, but it's included in that number, moves around from quarter to quarter.  If you look at this quarter, it's kind of interesting. 

 You have that as a positive, and then you have our  whole derivative, our whole high-yield book going the other way.  So they tend to balance as we sort of go through the period here.  Although we would expect our activities and credit derivatives to grow.  On both sides, on both where we're taking short positions against our own book, and where we're doing long positions as a service for customers. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  On Brazil, yes, good question.  As you know, we have a little under $2 billion, I think that's right, it's in one of your tables, of exposure to Brazil.  A lot of that is other than lending, and it's just activities.  We are, we are trying to reduce the book as we speak, trying to be cautious about it, monitoring it like crazy. And are being very, very careful waiting for the outcome of the election. 

 Brazil as an economy is very strong.  So the risk there is political risk.  So it's a different situation, in our view, than Argentina. But every bit is potentially volatile. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible) 

 JAMES HANCE:  Good question.  The question is, on WorldCom, do we expect to get sued, and where are we on legal reserves and what do we think about that risk? 

 We're probably going to be on both sides.  Aren't the banks suing them as well?  I mean I think I read somewhere that banks are suing WorldCom. And I'm sure we're going to be sued, if we haven't already been, in connection with WorldCom, just because of our involvement. 

 We will continually assess the risks of those suits and build legal reserves if we think that it's necessary to do such in the ordinary course.  Or build them up to our deductibility levels, if you will, on insurance, to the extent it applies.  So I mean it's going to be something we'll continue to do. 

 I definitely think the environment that we're in right now adds to legal risk and adds to effectively the legal expense of fighting it, if not the ultimate outcome of what all these lawsuits are going to be. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible) 

 JAMES HANCE:  We have varying levels of insurance up to roughly $400 million.  I mean with varying deductibles, depending upon either the situation or the nature or the specific name or - and the policy year. So it moves all over.  As you remember in the D.E. Shaw (ph) settlement, much of that settlement came from insurance coverage. 

 Yes? 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible) 

 JAMES HANCE:  Sure.  Yeah, let me repeat this.  The question is (inaudible) on the positives (ph) and sort of net new accounts.  We have added (ph) 248,000 (ph) net new checking accounts.  New customers, net new this quarter, and roughly the same number. Slightly lower, I guess than the first quarter. 

 The 248 (ph), the six months net new checking accounts - 248,000 (ph). That compares to roughly 190,000 for all of last year.  So we're doing much better.  You can actually see it in our deposit growth. All right? 

 The deposit growth has been about seven percent.  It's concentrated heavily in non-interest bearing and in interest bearing checking accounts and - checking accounts, if you will.  We've had a reduction in foreign time (ph), and a few other will sort of be more market-based deposits, and that's been conscious, because we can borrow it cheaper somewhere else, if you will. 

 So what you're seeing in the total deposit number is that (ph) components moving around.  But we've been very pleased with very steady deposit growth across the franchise coming from new customers and coming from existing customers increasing our balance sheet.  Part of the six sigma (ph) activities, part of our re-pricing, if you will, our re-formulation that we did last year on looking at the entire deposit world, has helped us turn what was effectively a churn (ph) action into a net growth action.  And it has been very visible in numbers and we're very pleased with it. 

 And the dollars are up some 20 billion year to year, June to June, in terms of pure, core deposits. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  Right. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  Right. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  We are, good question.  I mean, the question is, you know, what about retaining the deposits, and how are we sort of positioned.  Let me about interest rates, let me sort of deal with them both here.  First, we're positioned for interest rates to rise as we speak.  We have been, since say late fall.  Admittedly that was early, and wrong, right?  I mean, we've left money on the table by not having as much spread as we could have had on larger discretionary portfolios, if we had been positioned for more neutral. 

 We're still going to stay positioned for higher rates, expectations of higher rates, which means we will have less discretionary portfolios than we would otherwise have to be neutral.  Although we'll up it some. Secondly, on deposits you're going to see us keep up with market pricing.  We are not interested in losing a customer relationships after we have put in all this effort to get the customer relationship.  So we are going to be keeping current, if you will, and that's one, by that I mean we're going to be sort of medium pricer. Not going to be low, not going to be high, but plan to be medium pricer across our franchise, and hang on to the money. 

 And most of the money that's coming in the, in the form of checking accounts and non-interest bearing accounts, because we do expect the money market funds to be all over the place.  And we think that affects heavily our  money market funds, more so than money market deposits. But even so, we know that's going to be the more volatile when interest rates start to go up, and there are other attractive investments.  But we think the core deposits will continue to stay there, or rise as we A, become the safe haven, B, keep up with customer service and customer pricing, and just do a better job with the customer.  Yes, Steve (ph). 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  For us? 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  Yes, question is, what are our, looking ahead, what are our concern for rising rates?  Frankly I welcome them right this second. I would like to see higher rates.  Two things, as the level moves up, let's call it a parallel shift, that will benefit us.  And the reason it'll benefit us is the liability side doesn't reprice as fast as the asset side.  We also expect in that a potential flattening, and a flattening would be somewhat negative to us, so it would temper the benefit we would otherwise see. 

 But as we look at our positioning now, assuming we did nothing to respond to that, rising rates helps us this year, and next year, and the next, and the, and the 12 month look is much better than the six month look, in terms of rising rates.  Now as a practical matter, we will respond to that, we will, we will move into that, if you will, and do better as rates start to go up.  So two things, just to recap, a parallel shift up is a big benefit for us, because right now rates are so low, I mean, effectively they can't get any lower in some respects, and secondly, a slight tempering of that will be a flattening of the yield curve, which would be a negative.  OK?  More questions?  OK, questions from - yes, Jeff (ph). 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible) any (inaudible) to quantify the positive aspects of financial (inaudible) efforts (inaudible)?  And, if so, (inaudible)? 

 JAMES HANCE:  Yeah, that's a great question.  The question is, can we quantify effectively the benefit of national branding on essentially what we're seeing in the deposit world in terms of growth and attracting new accounts? 

 You know, not probably directly would be the answer to that.  But we're seeing much better survey results in terms of recognition, in terms of potential new business with us, in terms of knowing who we are, in terms of convenience, et cetera.  So we think it all fits together, Jeff (ph).  We think it's an important part. 

 I mean I'm not - I mean Cathy Desante (ph) may be able to pull it apart for you.  I don't know what it is, to split how many new checking accounts are coming in from one versus another.  Our goal was to get into the positive column.  In other words, to have net new checking accounts every time, net new deposits, and to hang on to those relationships, reduce the attrition rate, reduce the churn (ph) rate, et cetera. 

 And we think it all is a factor.  We think pricing and service and branding and stability and name is a key factor, especially in some of our key markets.  We're seeing extremely strong growth, for instance, in the Hispanic markets in both California and Texas and in Florida. And we think part of that is the branding, OK, and part of that is the name. We think that's extremely beneficial. 

 Telephone calls from - how about questions on telephones? 

 OPERATOR:  We have a question from Judah Kasher (ph) at Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead. 

 JUDAH KASHER, MERRILL LYNCH:  Hi, Jim (ph). 

 JAMES HANCE:  Good morning. 

 JUDAH KASHER:  Three quick ones.  Could you reconcile the rise in trading assets with the drop in trading income just in terms of asset productivity?  Second, I just wondered if you could size the tax preparation fees that were seasonal.  And lastly, on that last question, can you give any metrics in terms of the success in cutting attrition rates both in terms of accounts and employees? 

 You know you had some high numbers you talked about last November. I'm wondering how much improvement you made so far. 

 JAMES HANCE:  Yeah.  Let me do the last one first. 

 We have cut the attrition rate in both associates and in customers. And there are - you know I was trying to remember what the overall attrition rate is in terms of associates for the company.  I would guess it's somewhere around 17 percent down what would have been in the 20s. But it varies dramatically by unit, as you can imagine. 

 Now you'll also notice that we're down about 1,800 associates quarter to quarter in terms - and that's additional productivity and that's some of the six sigma (ph).  In terms of the effect of trust fees, I think it's about $20 million for the quarter.  Is that right, Kevin (ph)? Twenty-two million, Judah (ph), would be the number for the quarter that's included in terms of tax preparation fees. 

 And your - oh, reconciling and trading, I don't know that it reconciles.  Yes, the overall balances are up.  Yes, the positions are up.  And, yes, the results are down. 

 And I would say that is a bad correlation.  And nothing special there, particularly, other than we were impacted by all the spread widening and ran some (ph) trading losses in some of those days where we were caught with that. 

 JUDAH KASHER:  Anything like difficult block (ph) trends or anything like that?  And just one other thing.  On the asset management side, apart from the tax prep fees, it looks like your asset management and brokerage revenues were up on a (inaudible) quarter basis, which is a pretty good accomplishment given the market.  Just curious how you got there. 

 JAMES HANCE:  We did really well on brokerage, both consumer and institutional, this quarter I thought.  And I think you're starting to see some of the actions that Mr. DeMartini and his team have taken in that will pay off, and we're starting to see better flow or more consistent flow and a nice growth in the brokerage size.  And that's, so that's a big benefit. 

 No, I don't see anything in the trading world that portends a problem going forward.  Obviously the markets are very volatile, they're very unpredictable and very unstable across all fronts, and managing through that is going to be a key for us.  A key for us.  Sure. Another question from the telephone? 

 OPERATOR:  We have a question from Tom McCandless (ph) at KBW. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS, KBW:  Good morning Jim.  I have similar kind of question on the trading side.  In the past you've been kind of, maybe you did this and I missed it, discuss results, you know, for foreign exchange, fixed income and equity, et cetera, and I'm curious as to how much was the offset from the gain on the mark to market on the credit default swaps? 

 JAMES HANCE:  Let me see if I can give you some more detail on trading.  That'll help you here.  Hang on. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS:  Thank you. 

 JAMES HANCE:  Bear with me while I find it here a minute.  OK.  The print's a little small here Kevin (ph), let me see if I can give it to you.  In trading, for the second quarter, foreign exchange contracts were 133 million, and that compares to 127 the first quarter.  I'm just going to give you the two quarters here.  Interest rate contracts, 174 versus 144.  Fixed in (inaudible) is a mark to market on basically the high-yield book, was a negative 119 versus a negative 19 in the first quarter.  Equities trading 66 second, 82 first. Commodities and other were 30 and 24. 

 And I don't know what the credit derivative number is, but it's included in the, in the line item, over and above this trading here. We also have obviously the effect of mark to market on the mortgage servicing portfolio, FAS-133 adjustment.  I think that was a negative 30.  Something like that.  So all that's in there. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS:  And as your second follow-up, if I may, what's the outlook for the second half for net interest income? 

 JAMES HANCE:  We would expect net interest income to continue to stay strong.  We would, we're seeing, again, we're seeing decent growth on card, home equity and mortgage, and that will, that will add to net interest income growth.  We're seeing less of a drop, if you will, in corporate.  That will help us.  We're seeing a nice inflow of deposits, and we would expect sooner or later a slight rise in rates, and that will, that will be beneficial to us.  So we would expect net interest income to be very, you know, decent to strong.  If you look at net interest income year over year, it's been remarkable, considering that we were down some $55 billion in average earning assets year over year. And that has taken its toll in net interest income. 

 TOM MCCANDLESS:  Finally, with the consumer losses coming in lower than you had originally expected, does that impact your overall guidance for provisioning and charge-offs for this year? 

 JAMES HANCE:  We're going to leave our guidance where it is Tom (ph). Great question.  And that's because of the uncertain times we're in. Very, very uncertain in terms of one-off events or surprises of the day or whatever occurs. 

 We think we're well positioned to weather it through.  We're seeing less charge-offs than we had expected so far.  We would hope that continues for the year, but we'll declare victory in December and not in the middle of June or July here, as we go through this. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  Fair enough.  Thank you, Jim (ph). 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  Another question - Steve (ph), let me take some more from the telephone here.  One more from the telephone. 

 OPERATOR:  We have no further questions at this time. 

 JAMES HANCE:  OK - Steve (ph)? 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible) 

 JAMES HANCE:  Sure.  Two questions, really.  One is on expense control and whether or not we think that's continuing.  And whether or not -or where we think what that means if we get a more robust economy here. 

 Let me comment on that in sort of a macro sense.  Yes, we've had very good expense control.  Yes, the economy has helped us some in doing that.  Clearly, the six sigma (ph) and Q&P (ph) efforts have had a major contributor to the way we're getting the expense benefits and to the ongoing longevity of those expense benefits. 

 We are near - well we're 51 - effectively at 51 percent efficiency ratio now.  Our goal is to get to 50.  We would hope to get to 50 just as soon as we can.  We would also hope that when the economy turns around and we have more robust revenue growth, that we will have more robust expense growth. 

 In other words, we would expect to maintain a positive operating leverage.  But we also would expect for that expense growth to go up as revenues go up in our various businesses.  And as they return, (inaudible) commercial lending, whatever one you want to pick, as it starts to pick up with the economy so will expenses. 

 So we will not expect the dollar level you see to be maintained as the economy picks up.  We would expect the efficiency ratio to be maintained.  In other words, we're looking for positive business operating leverage at every turn, and we're looking for an overall goal of 50 percent, and we're at 51 and change as we speak. 

 Now the second part of your question is a good one.  And that is, you know, what do we see going forward here other than more of the same? Well the more of the same is very important to us.  I mean the more we can enhance the customer experience, the more we can do business with our existing customers.  The more we can increase the number of products and services we do with the customers, the better we do. 

 We've maintained that customer relationship, we hang on to them.  And our profitability sort of rises across the board.  So we are not going to change our focus off of organic growth.  The organic growth is serving us well in these times.  It's giving us a good base to go forward.  And we have a lot of untapped potential in our franchise with our existing customers that we have not tapped yet. 

 You've heard us all talk about it over the last year or so, but we do have a lot of additional customers that are customers that could be doing more business with us, be it private bank or premier or whatever, going forward, and that is still a major focus.  And we think that will continue to give us lift speed as we go forward, especially when you couple it with maintaining an existing efficiency ration. 

 That said, we would like very much to add to asset management, and have been unable to do so economically.  All right, so that continues to be an area of focus for us, because we are under served, if you will, or over leveraged in terms of our relationship managers dealing with private clients, or premier clients or potential private clients.  We don't have enough people on the ground dealing with that.  I mentioned to you, we're going to hit our goal of growing that force by 20 percent this year.  That is not, that's still not enough. 

 So if we could augment that, supplement that in an acquisition way, or in some other way, we would do that, assuming we could find something that was shareholder value added, made economic sense, and fit, and where the prices were right.  And that hasn't happened so far.  So we're not immune to external opportunities, especially in asset management, but we're not intent upon, or focusing on them at all. Yes Ron (ph). 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  Yes, the tax rate went down from the first quarter.  I think it went down from like 34 percent to like 32.5 percent or whatever.  Two things, one, we're getting, what's the word, much better at forecasting and estimating where we are on taxes and our tax position.  What you've seen us do in prior years is kind of carry it at an even 34 and then fix it in the fourth quarter.  Which tended to be a downward adjustment.  We're trying to do it more evenly as we go, as we go forward.  And that had an impact in terms of reducing the quarterly run rate. 

 We also had slightly higher, if you will, low income tax credits, low income housing tax credits this quarter, which has an impact on the overall rate.  We also had a shift, if you will, sort of out, what's the way to say it, in the FTE from being out of FTE, which gave us an adjustment between net interest income and pre-tax, or pre-FTE, which tax (inaudible) at the, at the same number on an FTE basis, but makes it look different rate-wise. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  Yes, I would.  I would, I'd use a blended first half rate, which is a combination between the 34 and the 32.5.  Yes. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  Yes, everything's the same, FTE.  But I would use that, and again, we'll true it up as we, as we see some changes going forward. Foreign tax credits have a big play in this, as do, as do low income housing credits.  Mike (ph). 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  Right. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  Right. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:  (inaudible). 

 JAMES HANCE:  You know, that's a great question too.  Question is, the risk that we have had, or the results we have had to stock market has been greater than I think we anticipated, which is your point.  And so what do we have left for this, no question, you can see the effect of the more volatile stock market, were stock market, whatever the term is, in three big places.  One, asset management fees.  The asset management fees are lower than we would have anticipated, lower equities, lower values, lower everything. 

 And that's translating to clearly principal investing.  We would expect principle investing to turn (ph) by now, if that's the term. All right?  It has not. 

 We're still suffering for lack of liquidity events on our large principle investing book.  And we have had continuing impairments. And so those two things are both going the wrong way. 

 And third is in trading.  Trading volumes levels, results, if you will, that Judah (ph) pointed out and others have pointed out, materially less than last year.  All right?  Being effected by the (inaudible) market - the very volatile markets, if you will, the factors in the markets.  And the results show accordingly. 

 So that has been much worse than we anticipated.  At the same time, we've overcome it with better activities and better volumes and better business in our other businesses.  That's been the good news.  So we're more or less where we though we were going to be, but the components are different. 

 We still are looking for a turnaround in all three of those things, but now think it's going to be further out than we anticipated, as do we think higher rates are further out for the same sort of reasons, and are taking actions accordingly to guard against that.  We're going to offset what the impacts will be. 

 On principle investing, we think it's pretty well scrubbed (ph), we really do.  We stay up with it.  We're very conservative in it.  We're very diverse and haven't had some of the more difficult industry, I guess, investments or high tech investment.  But it's still subject to the one-off (ph) problem, just like this quarter, and so we're very mindful.  Constantly look at it. 

 I'm scheduled to go out there again probably in about two weeks to re-do it some more.  And so we'll see where we are. 

 Question over here - oh, I thought I saw a hand somewhere.  More questions on the telephone? 

 OPERATOR:  Not at this time, sir. 

 JAMES HANCE:  Anymore here?  OK.  Thank you very much for coming.  I appreciate your interest. 

 COPYRIGHT 2002 BY FDCH-eMedia, Inc. NO PORTION OF THIS TRANSCRIPTION MAY BE COPIED, SOLD OR RETRANSMITTED WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN AUTHORITY OF FDCH-eMedia, Inc. 

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020716dy7f0005n
  


 HD
 Q1  2002  Bank  of  America  Earnings Release - Final 
   WC
5,620 words
   PD
15 April 2002
   ET
02:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 KEVIN:    Before Mr. Hance begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. 

 These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions and interest rates, market rates and prices, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. 

   TD
 For further information on these factors, I would like to refer you to our quarterly press release, as well to SEC documents that we have filed previously. 

 And with that, let me turn the meeting over to Jim Hance. 

 JAMES H. HANCE, JR., VICE CHAIRMAN AND CFO, BANK OF AMERICA CORP.: Thanks, Kevin.  Good morning everyone. 

 Welcome to our first quarter earnings review for Bank of America. 

 I appreciate you presence this morning very much, and knowing how busy it is with the start of the so-called earnings season here. 

 Results this quarter clearly exceeded our expectations, due to strong performances in our consumer businesses, very good expense control, and better credit quality, partially offset by subdued activity in our market-sensitive areas. 

 Earnings this quarter were $2.2 billion to a $1.38 per share on a diluted basis and that was up slightly from fourth quarter results. And an increase of 10 percent from the first quarter a year ago after adjusting for the elimination of good will amortization. 

 When adjusting for the elimination good will amortization in the fourth quarter you should add about nine cents to the results to get an apples to apples comparison.  Now, any comparison that I make with prior periods will reflect this good will adjustment. 

 We generated positive operating leverages this quarter despite the slower economy and our ongoing investing in asset management in six segment processes in other areas for our future.  Our already strong balance sheet continues to strengthen.  We're also making more effective use of our capital, reducing risk and getting paid better for the risks that we are taking.  We continue to accelerate our customer momentum, especially in consumer banking as I will illustrate in a few minutes. 

 Total reported revenue in the first quarter was down from fourth quarter results due mainly to the expected loss and spread income from the sub-prime real estate securitization completed at the end of last year.  A better gauge of our progress is the year-to-year comparison which eliminates the impact of seasonality and better demonstrates the continuing momentum of our customer-focused initiatives that we laid out for you last year. 

 Total reported revenue this quarter increased two percent versus a year ago.  This two percent growth was achieved despite a 15 percent reduction in the loan portfolio, or about $60 billion.  And a 40 percent drop in (inaudible) revenues.  While eliminating $60 billion in loans gives us significant net interest income, we do get a positive answer from an SDA (ph) standpoint when you factor in risk and the cost of capital. 

 Expense levels versus a year ago remain flat as improved efficiency and productivity allowed us to invest in growth businesses throughout the year and still produce positive operating leverage.  We realized last year that expense control had to be a priority given the expected slow-down in the economy and our people have delivered superbly. 

 The operating efficiency ratio for the first quarter was 51.7 percent versus our long-term goal of less than 50 percent.   Average quarter domestic deposits continued to grow and are up an annualized six percent from the fourth quarter and $24 billion for eight percent from a year ago.  The downsizing of the loan portfolio and our focus on deposit generation continues to improve our liquidity and our funding. 

 Our loan domestic deposit ratio ended the quarter at 99 percent versus 123 percent a year ago.  The tier one capital ratio strengthened another 31 basis points this quarter to 8.6 percent.  And shares outstanding dropped by 15 million from the fourth quarter despite the issuance of approximately 16 million shares due to the exercise of options. 

 Year-over-year, the tier one capital ratio increased 96 basis points while shares decreased 57 million.  Overall, credit quality came in better than expected due to higher commercial recoveries. 

 Now let's take a look at the individual businesses.  Consumer and commercial banking's earned $1.4 billion or 65 percent of the corporation's first quarter earnings with a return on equity of 31 percent.  This is an increase in earnings of 11 percent versus results a year ago and an increase of our percent from the fourth quarter of last year. 

 Average loans grew four percent from the first quarter of last year and an annualized six- percent from the fourth quarter, driven by credit card and residential mortgages.  Consumer loans grew 20 percent from last year more than offsetting the 12 percent reduction in the commercial's middle-market portfolio. 

 Because of seasonality and some of the consumer businesses, the best comparison for revenue trends is with the first quarter of last year. Revenue grew 10 percent from last year driven by net interest income growth of 13 percent and fee income growth of five percent.  Within fee income, the main drivers from a year ago were services charges and mortgages banking (ph). 

 Service charges rose six percent and benefited from higher treasury management fees.  Mortgage banking increased 59 percent and was obviously the result of the lower interest rate environment. 

 Card income increased slightly as an 18 percent increase in debit card fees was offset by lower late fees and lower interchange fees in the consumer credit cards.  Debit card purchase volumes remains strong showing a 14 percent growth over last year.  Credit card volumes, however, have not fully recovered from 9-11 and were below last year's level. 

 Looking at just the fee income for card, understates the real performance of the business. 

 Looking at total revenue, including net interest income, you can see that card total revenues actually increased 19 percent from results a year ago. 

 Average deposits in consumer and commercial bank, which represents the bulk of our core deposits, were up seven percent from a year ago, reflecting our efforts to add new customers, and to deepen the relationship of existing customers. 

 For all of 2001, we had a net increase in checking accounts of 193,000 new accounts.  In the first quarter of 2002 alone, net new checking accounts increased 122,000, and exceeded our first quarter internal target by almost 50 percent. 

 Active online bank customers exceeded the $3 million mark during the quarter for the first time, while bill (inaudible) payers (ph) increased to more than one million customers during the quarter. 

 Our latest consumer satisfaction scores show a one percent point lift in highly satisfied customers in all three customer segments -consumer, small business and commercial. 

 These results represent concrete evidence, if you will, that our customer focused strategy of retain, deepen and grow, is in fact taking hold within the franchise. 

 Now turning to global, corporate and investment banking, earnings in the first quarter were $503 million, with a return on equity of 18 percent.  And the earnings were up nine percent from fourth quarter levels, due to lower expenses and lower credit costs. 

 Total revenue in GCIB for the quarter totaled $2.3 billion.  That was down two percent in the fourth quarter, as increases in trading and Treasury management were offset by decreases in investment banking and in spread income. 

 Expense levels for the quarter were down three percent in GCIB, offsetting the revenue shortfall. 

 Average loans decreased seven percent in the fourth quarter, as we continue our efforts to exit relationships that don't meet our hurdle rates for profitability. 

 Although down seasonally, and also due to strong results in the fourth quarter, investment banking continues to gain market share.  This is supported by results consistent with a year ago when the markets and the economy were in better shape. 

 Securities underwriting itself dropped 19 percent in the fourth quarter to $194 million of revenue.  As a 27 percent increase in high grade was more than offset by a 43 percent decrease in equity. 

 Syndications dropped as well by 44 percent in the fourth quarter to the $68 million level.  And advisory services dropped 38 percent to $58 million. 

 Now the high-grade calendar was rather robust in the quarter and we expect new issue supply to continue through the second quarter as companies act in anticipation of interest rate increases expected by the Fed this summer.  (inaudible) in the M&A (ph) environment has continued to be negatively impacted by the uncertainty in the markets.   But the good news here is that March was the strongest month in the quarter for investment banking and we have seen a very attractive backlog of business headed into the second quarter. 

 Total trading related revenue for the first quarter was $793 million. And that's an increase of 12 percent from the fourth quarter of last year.  A positive quarter for the derivatives business and good fixed income results drove the improvement.  A consistent performer within Global Corporate Investment Bank over the past several quarters is Global Treasury Services which has benefited from a lower-rate environment. 

 Revenue in Global Treasury Services was up nicely from a year ago. This was the fifth quarter in a row both revenue and earnings have increased through Global Treasury Services.  And Global Treasury Services, as you know, represents about 20 percent of total GCI based performance both in revenue and in earnings. 

 Now our third core business segment and a key strategic area for us is asset management.  Return equity reached 25 percent in the first quarter (audio-gap) flat compared to fourth quarter and a year ago. Versus the fourth quarter, growth and asset management fees and lower expenses offset a 10 percent reduction in brokerage fees.  Expenses have been well controlled while at the same time we have been expanding our distribution capabilities in both the private bank and in brokerage. 

 In addition, we have expanded our product stuff with a new 529 (ph) account and additional alternative investments.  Our Mutual Funds here have experienced good performance, which is reflected, I think, in the improved rankings that you see of the funds.  All of these efforts, of course, should help us as the markets improve.  Assets under management rose slightly from the fourth quarter to the $315 billion level and of course, were up 10 percent from a year ago. 

 Our fourth and final business segment is equity investments.  As with the previous quarters, there's not a lot to talk about here due to continued weak equity markets.  Non-interest income was a positive $16 million compared to a negative $45 million in the fourth quarter, but also compared to a positive $143 million a year ago. 

 In principal investing, cash gains this quarter were approximately $150 million, but they were offset by impairments that were approximately $140 million. 

 Rather than discuss credit quality within - credit quality within each of the businesses, I thought I would summarize it for you separately. Total net charge-offs for the quarter were $840 million and that's an annualized 1.04 percent of the loan portfolio, which compares to .81 percent a year ago and 1.42 percent in the fourth quarter of last year. 

 On the consumer side, results were inline with expectations.  At the managed credit card charge-off ratio increase 53 basis points from the fourth quarter, driven by higher unemployment and a slower economy in the second half of 2001.  Excluding credit card, consumer charge-offs improved from fourth quarter results. 

 At commercial net charge-offs at 1.09 percent of the portfolio, were lower than expected due mainly to higher recoveries.  Gross charge-offs - gross charge-offs for the quarter before recoveries in the commercial portfolio were approximately equal to the quarterly average we experienced in 2001.  And more inline, if you will, with the guidance that we gave you in January. 

 Now recoveries are not that unusual when the economy rebounds except it's very hard to predict the flow of those recoveries.  At March 31st, our Enron exposure totaled $231 million.  A hundred and ninety-one million in non-performing assets and another 40 million in undrawn letters of credit.  A hundred and sixty-eight million in non-performing assets is secured.  We continue to analyze this exposure and to take charge-offs appropriate for those amounts that we deem to be uncollectible.  The $23 million of unsecured exposure in non-performing assets has, of course, been marked to market. 

 Total non-performing assets for the company increased roughly two percent from the fourth quarter to nearly $5 billion.  As decreases in consumer and foreclosed properties were offset by higher net commercial inflows.  Driving much of the commercial inflows were telecom credits and approximately $120 million of Argentina loans. 

 During the quarter, we sold $180 million of consumer non-performing assets and $87 million of commercial non-performing assets. 

 Now, before I turn to our outlook for the rest of the year, let me say that this is the last quarter that I will update for you our progress in exiting the sub-prime real estate portfolio. 

 Of the $22 billion in sub-prime real estate loans that were on our books when we announced our business exits last August, only $193 million remains out of that $22 billion. 

 Seventeen billion dollars of loans were securitized in the triple A paper at the end of last year.  And another $5 million, mostly delinquent loans, have either been sold or have been paid down. 

 Part of the $44 million in securities gains this quarter represented the sale of some of this triple A paper that we had moved into securities last year. 

 All of the projections that we shared with you last August have either been met or exceeded, as we have disposed of this business. 

 Now, when I spoke with you in January, I mentioned that we were looking for modest revenue growth in 2002, tight expense control, and continued high levels of loan charge-offs.  That is still our outlook. 

 I know that the recent economic data is saying that we should be more optimistic, but there is nothing particularly in our business trends that convince us that the earnings will improve materially from our expectations three months ago. 

 Our outlook is for rising rates later this year, with some flattening in the yield curve.  And we have positioned ourselves to neutralize this impact. 

 Our consumer businesses have done extremely well for the past few quarters, and should continue to do so for the rest of the year. 

 Results in mortgage banking going forward won't match the revenue levels in the first quarter, as we believe rising rates will slow the pace of originations and re-fis.  But mortgage servicing, and our focus on mortgage as a cornerstone product, should continue to provide a very healthy revenue stream. 

 Investment banking and equity investments should track market activity.  And while we expect that activity to be less than robust, we did see some pick-up at the end of the first quarter, as I mentioned. 

 As far as our outlook for credit quality going forward, we think consumer charge-offs, especially credit card, will continue to lag the economy and increase into the second half of 2002.  If unemployment numbers and bankruptcy activities stay at or close to current levels, then the degree of deterioration we projected in January may not materialize. 

 On the commercial side, we believe net charge off will remain high through the rest of the year because of the lag effect as well.  If the economy recovers faster and corporate earnings rebound then commercial charge loss may experience relief also sooner than we think. 

 One real positive trend we are seeing is the slowing of credits into the criticized status.  Inflows in the first quarter were the lowest that they have been in the last nine quarters.  But there has been enough inflow over the past nine quarters to keep non-performing assets rising slightly for the next couple of quarters. 

 Now we do feel better about the economy now than we did in January. But we believe that caution is the best approach given the unusual characteristics of this recovery and other aspects of the world economy. 

 I thank you for your attention and I'd be happy to open up for questions. Mike (ph). 

 KEVIN:    Before Mr. Hance begins his comments, let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results, and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations. 

 These factors include, among other things, changes in economic conditions and interest rates, market rates and prices, competitive pressures within the financial services industry, and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses. 

 For further information on these factors, I would like to refer you to our quarterly press release, as well to SEC documents that we have filed previously. 

 And with that, let me turn the meeting over to Jim Hance. 

 JAMES H. HANCE, JR.:  Thanks, Kevin.  Good morning everyone. 

 Welcome to our first quarter earnings review for Bank of America. 

 I appreciate you presence this morning very much, and knowing how busy it is with the start of the so-called earnings season here. 

 Results this quarter clearly exceeded our expectations, due to strong performances in our consumer businesses, very good expense control, and better credit quality, partially offset by subdued activity in our market-sensitive areas. 

 Earnings this quarter were $2.2 billion to a $1.38 per share on a diluted basis and that was up slightly from fourth quarter results. And an increase of 10 percent from the first quarter a year ago after adjusting for the elimination of good will amortization. 

 When adjusting for the elimination good will amortization in the fourth quarter you should add about nine cents to the results to get an apples to apples comparison.  Now, any comparison that I make with prior periods will reflect this good will adjustment. 

 We generated positive operating leverages this quarter despite the slower economy and our ongoing investing in asset management in six segment processes in other areas for our future.  Our already strong balance sheet continues to strengthen.  We're also making more effective use of our capital, reducing risk and getting paid better for the risks that we are taking.  We continue to accelerate our customer momentum, especially in consumer banking as I will illustrate in a few minutes. 

 Total reported revenue in the first quarter was down from fourth quarter results due mainly to the expected loss and spread income from the sub-prime real estate securitization completed at the end of last year.  A better gauge of our progress is the year-to-year comparison which eliminates the impact of seasonality and better demonstrates the continuing momentum of our customer-focused initiatives that we laid out for you last year. 

 Total reported revenue this quarter increased two percent versus a year ago.  This two percent growth was achieved despite a 15 percent reduction in the loan portfolio, or about $60 billion.  And a 40 percent drop in (inaudible) revenues.  While eliminating $60 billion in loans gives us significant net interest income, we do get a positive answer from an SDA (ph) standpoint when you factor in risk and the cost of capital. 

 Expense levels versus a year ago remain flat as improved efficiency and productivity allowed us to invest in growth businesses throughout the year and still produce positive operating leverage.  We realized last year that expense control had to be a priority given the expected slow-down in the economy and our people have delivered superbly. 

 The operating efficiency ratio for the first quarter was 51.7 percent versus our long-term goal of less than 50 percent.   Average quarter domestic deposits continued to grow and are up an annualized six percent from the fourth quarter and $24 billion for eight percent from a year ago.  The downsizing of the loan portfolio and our focus on deposit generation continues to improve our liquidity and our funding. 

 Our loan domestic deposit ratio ended the quarter at 99 percent versus 123 percent a year ago.  The tier one capital ratio strengthened another 31 basis points this quarter to 8.6 percent.  And shares outstanding dropped by 15 million from the fourth quarter despite the issuance of approximately 16 million shares due to the exercise of options. 

 Year-over-year, the tier one capital ratio increased 96 basis points while shares decreased 57 million.  Overall, credit quality came in better than expected due to higher commercial recoveries. 

 Now let's take a look at the individual businesses.  Consumer and commercial banking's earned $1.4 billion or 65 percent of the corporation's first quarter earnings with a return on equity of 31 percent.  This is an increase in earnings of 11 percent versus results a year ago and an increase of our percent from the fourth quarter of last year. 

 Average loans grew four percent from the first quarter of last year and an annualized six- percent from the fourth quarter, driven by credit card and residential mortgages.  Consumer loans grew 20 percent from last year more than offsetting the 12 percent reduction in the commercial's middle-market portfolio. 

 Because of seasonality and some of the consumer businesses, the best comparison for revenue trends is with the first quarter of last year. Revenue grew 10 percent from last year driven by net interest income growth of 13 percent and fee income growth of five percent.  Within fee income, the main drivers from a year ago were services charges and mortgages banking (ph). 

 Service charges rose six percent and benefited from higher treasury management fees.  Mortgage banking increased 59 percent and was obviously the result of the lower interest rate environment. 

 Card income increased slightly as an 18 percent increase in debit card fees was offset by lower late fees and lower interchange fees in the consumer credit cards.  Debit card purchase volumes remains strong showing a 14 percent growth over last year.  Credit card volumes, however, have not fully recovered from 9-11 and were below last year's level. 

 Looking at just the fee income for card, understates the real performance of the business. 

 Looking at total revenue, including net interest income, you can see that card total revenues actually increased 19 percent from results a year ago. 

 Average deposits in consumer and commercial bank, which represents the bulk of our core deposits, were up seven percent from a year ago, reflecting our efforts to add new customers, and to deepen the relationship of existing customers. 

 For all of 2001, we had a net increase in checking accounts of 193,000 new accounts.  In the first quarter of 2002 alone, net new checking accounts increased 122,000, and exceeded our first quarter internal target by almost 50 percent. 

 Active online bank customers exceeded the $3 million mark during the quarter for the first time, while bill (inaudible) payers (ph) increased to more than one million customers during the quarter. 

 Our latest consumer satisfaction scores show a one percent point lift in highly satisfied customers in all three customer segments -consumer, small business and commercial. 

 These results represent concrete evidence, if you will, that our customer focused strategy of retain, deepen and grow, is in fact taking hold within the franchise. 

 Now turning to global, corporate and investment banking, earnings in the first quarter were $503 million, with a return on equity of 18 percent.  And the earnings were up nine percent from fourth quarter levels, due to lower expenses and lower credit costs. 

 Total revenue in GCIB for the quarter totaled $2.3 billion.  That was down two percent in the fourth quarter, as increases in trading and Treasury management were offset by decreases in investment banking and in spread income. 

 Expense levels for the quarter were down three percent in GCIB, offsetting the revenue shortfall. 

 Average loans decreased seven percent in the fourth quarter, as we continue our efforts to exit relationships that don't meet our hurdle rates for profitability. 

 Although down seasonally, and also due to strong results in the fourth quarter, investment banking continues to gain market share.  This is supported by results consistent with a year ago when the markets and the economy were in better shape. 

 Securities underwriting itself dropped 19 percent in the fourth quarter to $194 million of revenue.  As a 27 percent increase in high grade was more than offset by a 43 percent decrease in equity. 

 Syndications dropped as well by 44 percent in the fourth quarter to the $68 million level.  And advisory services dropped 38 percent to $58 million. 

 Now the high-grade calendar was rather robust in the quarter and we expect new issue supply to continue through the second quarter as companies act in anticipation of interest rate increases expected by the Fed this summer.  (inaudible) in the M&A (ph) environment has continued to be negatively impacted by the uncertainty in the markets.   But the good news here is that March was the strongest month in the quarter for investment banking and we have seen a very attractive backlog of business headed into the second quarter. 

 Total trading related revenue for the first quarter was $793 million. And that's an increase of 12 percent from the fourth quarter of last year.  A positive quarter for the derivatives business and good fixed income results drove the improvement.  A consistent performer within Global Corporate Investment Bank over the past several quarters is Global Treasury Services which has benefited from a lower-rate environment. 

 Revenue in Global Treasury Services was up nicely from a year ago. This was the fifth quarter in a row both revenue and earnings have increased through Global Treasury Services.  And Global Treasury Services, as you know, represents about 20 percent of total GCI based performance both in revenue and in earnings. 

 Now our third core business segment and a key strategic area for us is asset management.  Return equity reached 25 percent in the first quarter (audio-gap) flat compared to fourth quarter and a year ago. Versus the fourth quarter, growth and asset management fees and lower expenses offset a 10 percent reduction in brokerage fees.  Expenses have been well controlled while at the same time we have been expanding our distribution capabilities in both the private bank and in brokerage. 

 In addition, we have expanded our product stuff with a new 529 (ph) account and additional alternative investments.  Our Mutual Funds here have experienced good performance, which is reflected, I think, in the improved rankings that you see of the funds.  All of these efforts, of course, should help us as the markets improve.  Assets under management rose slightly from the fourth quarter to the $315 billion level and of course, were up 10 percent from a year ago. 

 Our fourth and final business segment is equity investments.  As with the previous quarters, there's not a lot to talk about here due to continued weak equity markets.  Non-interest income was a positive $16 million compared to a negative $45 million in the fourth quarter, but also compared to a positive $143 million a year ago. 

 In principal investing, cash gains this quarter were approximately $150 million, but they were offset by impairments that were approximately $140 million. 

 Rather than discuss credit quality within - credit quality within each of the businesses, I thought I would summarize it for you separately. Total net charge-offs for the quarter were $840 million and that's an annualized 1.04 percent of the loan portfolio, which compares to .81 percent a year ago and 1.42 percent in the fourth quarter of last year. 

 On the consumer side, results were inline with expectations.  At the managed credit card charge-off ratio increase 53 basis points from the fourth quarter, driven by higher unemployment and a slower economy in the second half of 2001.  Excluding credit card, consumer charge-offs improved from fourth quarter results. 

 At commercial net charge-offs at 1.09 percent of the portfolio, were lower than expected due mainly to higher recoveries.  Gross charge-offs - gross charge-offs for the quarter before recoveries in the commercial portfolio were approximately equal to the quarterly average we experienced in 2001.  And more inline, if you will, with the guidance that we gave you in January. 

 Now recoveries are not that unusual when the economy rebounds except it's very hard to predict the flow of those recoveries.  At March 31st, our Enron exposure totaled $231 million.  A hundred and ninety-one million in non-performing assets and another 40 million in undrawn letters of credit.  A hundred and sixty-eight million in non-performing assets is secured.  We continue to analyze this exposure and to take charge-offs appropriate for those amounts that we deem to be uncollectible.  The $23 million of unsecured exposure in non-performing assets has, of course, been marked to market. 

 Total non-performing assets for the company increased roughly two percent from the fourth quarter to nearly $5 billion.  As decreases in consumer and foreclosed properties were offset by higher net commercial inflows.  Driving much of the commercial inflows were telecom credits and approximately $120 million of Argentina loans. 

 During the quarter, we sold $180 million of consumer non-performing assets and $87 million of commercial non-performing assets. 

 Now, before I turn to our outlook for the rest of the year, let me say that this is the last quarter that I will update for you our progress in exiting the sub-prime real estate portfolio. 

 Of the $22 billion in sub-prime real estate loans that were on our books when we announced our business exits last August, only $193 million remains out of that $22 billion. 

 Seventeen billion dollars of loans were securitized in the triple A paper at the end of last year.  And another $5 million, mostly delinquent loans, have either been sold or have been paid down. 

 Part of the $44 million in securities gains this quarter represented the sale of some of this triple A paper that we had moved into securities last year. 

 All of the projections that we shared with you last August have either been met or exceeded, as we have disposed of this business. 

 Now, when I spoke with you in January, I mentioned that we were looking for modest revenue growth in 2002, tight expense control, and continued high levels of loan charge-offs.  That is still our outlook. 

 I know that the recent economic data is saying that we should be more optimistic, but there is nothing particularly in our business trends that convince us that the earnings will improve materially from our expectations three months ago. 

 Our outlook is for rising rates later this year, with some flattening in the yield curve.  And we have positioned ourselves to neutralize this impact. 

 Our consumer businesses have done extremely well for the past few quarters, and should continue to do so for the rest of the year. 

 Results in mortgage banking going forward won't match the revenue levels in the first quarter, as we believe rising rates will slow the pace of originations and re-fis.  But mortgage servicing, and our focus on mortgage as a cornerstone product, should continue to provide a very healthy revenue stream. 

 Investment banking and equity investments should track market activity.  And while we expect that activity to be less than robust, we did see some pick-up at the end of the first quarter, as I mentioned. 

 As far as our outlook for credit quality going forward, we think consumer charge-offs, especially credit card, will continue to lag the economy and increase into the second half of 2002.  If unemployment numbers and bankruptcy activities stay at or close to current levels, then the degree of deterioration we projected in January may not materialize. 

 On the commercial side, we believe net charge off will remain high through the rest of the year because of the lag effect as well.  If the economy recovers faster and corporate earnings rebound then commercial charge loss may experience relief also sooner than we think. 

 One real positive trend we are seeing is the slowing of credits into the criticized status.  Inflows in the first quarter were the lowest that they have been in the last nine quarters.  But there has been enough inflow over the past nine quarters to keep non-performing assets rising slightly for the next couple of quarters. 

 Now we do feel better about the economy now than we did in January. But we believe that caution is the best approach given the unusual characteristics of this recovery and other aspects of the world economy. 

 I thank you for your attention and I'd be happy to open up for questions. Mike (ph). 

 COPYRIGHT 2002 BY FDCH-eMedia, Inc. NO PORTION OF THIS TRANSCRIPTION MAY BE COPIED, SOLD OR RETRANSMITTED WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN AUTHORITY OF FDCH-eMedia, Inc. 

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy4f002ti
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q1  2002  Bank  of  America  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
3,350 words
   PD
15 April 2002
   ET
02:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . James Hance Jr., CFO 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Results exceeded guidance in a strong quarter. 1Q02 total revenue was $2.3b. Earnings were $503m with ROE of 18%, up 9% from 4Q01. Q+A Review: Balance sheet details and guidance going forward. 

 FINANCIAL DATA 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. Overview   1. Results exceeded expectations due to strong performance in      consumer businesses, good expense control, and better credit      quality partially offset by subdued activity in market-sensitive      areas.   2. Earnings were $2.2b $1.38 per share on a diluted basis; up from      4Q01 and an increase of 10% from 1Q01, after adjusting for      elimination of goodwill amortization; to adjust for amortization      elimination in 4Q01, add  $0.09 per share to results; any      comparison made to prior periods will reflect goodwill      adjustment.   3. Generated positive operating leverage despite slower economy and      ongoing investing in asset management, six sigma processes and      other areas for our future.   4. We're making effective use of capital, reducing risk, and      getting paid better for risks we are taking. We accelerate      customer momentum especially in consumer banking.   5. Revenue down from 4Q01, due to expected loss in spread income      from sub prime real estate securitization completed at end of      2001. YonY comparison eliminated impact of seasonality and      better demonstrates momentum customer focus initiative. Revenues      increased 2%  from 1Q01 despite 15% reduction in loan portfolio      of $60b and 40% drop in market sensitive revenue. Eliminating      $60b in loans gives up significant net interest income; this is      positive from an SVA standpoint when factoring in risk and cost      of capital.   6. Expense levels remain flat from 1Q01 due to improved efficiency      and productivity. Expense control has to be priority given      expected slowdown in economy.   7. Operating efficiency ratio was 51.7% vs. long term goal of less than 50%   8. Average core domestic deposits are up annualized 6% from 4Q01      and $24b or 8% from 1Q01.   9. Loan to domestic deposit ratio was at 99% vs. 123% in 1Q01.   10. Tier 1 capital ratio strengthened 31 basis points to 8.6%;      shares outstanding down 15m from 4Q01 despite issuance of 16m      shares due to exercise of options. YonY Tier 1 increased 96      basis points while shares decreased 57m 

 B. Consumer Banking   1. Earned $1.4b or 65% of 1Q02; ROE of 31%; increase of 11% vs.      1Q02 and 4% from 4Q01.   2. Average loans grew 4% from 1Q01 and annualized 6% from 4Q01;      driven by credit card and residential mortgages.   3. Consumer loans grew 20% from last year, offsetting 12% reduction      in commercial middle market portfolio. 4. Revenue grew 10% from 1Q01, driven by net interest income growth of 13%  and fee income growth of 5%. Service charges rose 6% and benefited from higher treasury management fees; mortgage banking rose 59% and was the result of lower interest rates.   5. Card income increased slightly; 18% increase in debit card fees      offset by lower late fees and lower interchange fees in consumer      credit cards; debit card purchase volume rose 14% over last      year; credit card volumes have not fully recovered from 9/11 and      were below last year's levels; total revenue (including net      interest income) increased 19% from 1Q01.   6. Average deposits in consumer commercial bank rose 7% from 1Q01,      reflecting efforts to add new customers and deepen existing      relationships.   7. For all of FY01, we had 193,000 new checking accounts net; in      1Q02, we had 122,000 new checking accounts, exceeded internal      target by 50%.   8. Active online bank customers exceeded 3m for the first time in      1Q02; billpay customers increased to more than 1m.   9. Consumer satisfaction scores show 1% point lift in highly      satisfied customers in consumer, small business, and commercial. 

 C. Global Corporate and Investment Banking   1. Earnings were $503m ROE of 18% up 9% from 4Q01; total revenue      was $2.3b, down 2% from 4Q01 due to increases in trading and      treasury management offset by decreases in investment banking      and spread income;  expense levels were down 3%.   2. Average loans decreased 7% from 4Q01, as we exit relationships      that don't meet hurdle rates for profitability   3. Investment banking gains market share, supported by results consistent with last year.   4. Securities underwriting dropped 19% from 4Q01 to $194m of      revenue; a 27% increase in high grade was offset by a 43%      decrease in equity.   5. Syndications down 40% from 4Q01 to $68m.   6. Advisory services down 38% from 4Q01 to $58m.   7. High grade calendar robust; we expect new issue supply to      continue through 2Q02 as companies anticipate interest rate      increases this summer.   8. M&A negatively impacted by market uncertainty; March was the      strongest month in the quarter, and we see attractive backlog of      business headed into 2Q02.   9. Trading related revenue was $793m, up 12% from 4Q01.   10. Global treasury services have benefited from lower rate      environment; up nicely from 1Q01; revenue and earnings increased      for the fifth quarter in a row; represents 20% of GCIB services. 

 D. Asset management   1. ROE was 25% in 1Q02, although net income was flat compared to      4Q01 and 1Q01.   2. Fee growth and lowered expenses offset a 10% reduction in      brokerage fees; expenses have been well controlled while we      expand distribution capabilities in private bank and brokerage;      we have expanded with new 529 account and additional alternative      investments.   3. Mutual funds experience good performance, which is reflected in      improved ranking; assets under management rose slightly from      4Q01 to $315b level and were up 10% from 1Q01. 

 E. Equity Investments   1. Non-interest income was up $16m vs. -$45m in 4Q01 and $143m in      1Q01.   2. Cash gains in principal investing were $150m in 1Q02, but offset      by impairment of approx. $140m. 

 F. Summary   1. Total net charge offs $840m annualized 1.04% of the loan      portfolio compared to  0.81% in 1Q01 and 1.42% in 4Q01.   2. On consumer side, managed credit card chargeoff ratio  increased      53 basis points from 4Q01, driven by high unemployment and slow economy in 2H01.   3. Excluding credit cards, consumer chargeoffs improved from 4Q01.   4. Commercial net chargeoffs at 1.09% of portfolio were lower than      expected due to higher recoveries; gross chargeoffs in 1Q02      almost equal to quarterly average in FY01.   5. At 3/31/02 Enron exposure totaled $231m, $191m in nonperforming      assets and $40m in undrawn letters of credit; $168m in      nonperforming assets is secured; we analyze this exposure and      take chargeoffs appropriate for amounts deemed uncollectable;      $23m unsecured exposure has been marked to market.   6. Total nonperforming assets rose 2% in 4Q01 to $5b; decreases in      consumer and foreclosed properties were offset by higher net      commercial inflows; inflows driven by telecom credit and $120m      Argentina loans.   7. In 1Q02, we sold $180m of consumer nonperforming assets and $87m      in commercial nonperforming assets. 8. Of the $22b in sub prime real estate loans on books when we announced business exits last August, $193m remains; $17b securitized into AAA paper and $5b have been sold or paid down; part of $44m in securities gains represent sales of AAA paper      moved into security last year.   9. All projections in August were met or exceeded. 

 G. Financial Outlook   1. We're looking for modest revenue growth, tight expense control,      and high levels of loan chargeoffs.   2. Recent economic data says we should be more optimistic, but      nothing in our business trend that convinces us earnings will      improve from expectations.   3. Rates will rise with some flattening in yield curve; we're      positioned to neutralize impact.   4. Consumer business has done well and will continue to do so for      rest of 2002.   5. Mortgage banking won't match revenues in 1Q02 as rising rates      slow the pace of origination and refive (phonetic); mortgage      servicing and focus on mortgage as a cornerstone product will      provide healthy revenue stream.   6. Investment banking and equity investment should track marketing      activity; though we expect less than robust activity, we saw      pickup at end of 1Q02.   7. Consumer chargeoffs, esp. credit cards, will increase in 2H02;      if unemployment and bankruptcy stay at current levels, expected      deterioration may not materialize.   8. Net chargeoff on commercial side will remain high; if corporate      earnings rebound, may experience relief sooner than expected.   9. Slowing of credit into the criticized status; inflows in 1Q02      were lowest they'd been in nine quarters, but enough inflow to      keep nonperforming assets rising  over the next few quarters. 10. We feel better about economy, but caution is the best approach. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1. ((inaudible))  Outline loan growth by region? 

 A.  We're seeing slow loan growth other than consumer areas. Mortgage and credit card are strong, and weakest has been commercial loan growth.  We're waiting for economy to pick up. Business inventories are down again; that's consistent with what we see across franchise. Companies are building liquidity but not inventory or capital expenditures. Loan levels dropped again because of paydown and being more prudent, but also due to lack of activity. Northern CA is  slower than other areas, and there's pickup in the Southeast  compared mid-Atlantic, but differences are minor. 

 Q2. ((inaudible))  (inaudible) 

 A.  (inaudible) Jan and Feb were slow, but we saw pickup in March, backlog materialized. In debt world, we're large, we've increased  all our market shares, and debt world continues to be strong.  Companies are refinancing while rates are low, and the pullback in  commercial paper market encourages people to put on more permanent  financing. We've also seen calendarization of equity transactions.  More activity is encouraging. We'll be happy when it turns into fee  income. Our pipeline looks better today then six weeks ago, but  transactions still have to come to fruition. We think investment  banking will be slow all year relative to before last year, but we  expect levels to come up to last year, if not exceeding them. 

 Q3. ((inaudible))  What are your expectations on interest rates going forward? What do  you see on general economy? 

 A.  We believe in the economic rebounding theory; we see more evidence of it. There's talk of another recession; we don't think that'll happen, but we don't expect a robust rebound either. We think it'll  be steady and slow even if GDP numbers look better. We remain  optimistic and cautious but positive. Interest rates will rise in  August and not May, but will be larger than it would've been in May  as a catch-up; we've positioned balance sheet to reflect rise in  interest rate and slight flattening of yield curve. The longer that  takes, the more we have a drag on net interest income because we  haven't reinvested. Business levels will pick up, we'll see it first  in commercial loan growth and higher levels of recoveries, which  kick in when economy recovers though it's hard to predict. You'll  see workout of problem loans; that hasn't started yet, demand of  purchase problem loans, but not considered standard workouts. 1Q02  earnings releases will be key as to overall health of corporate  America. We're waiting to see. 

 Q4. ((inaudible))  Could you quantify some of that? 

 A.  We expect 50 basis points in Aug and passing on May; our economist is bullish on GDP in 2H02, driven by steady rebound and by gov't spending and tax refund benefit. He's looking at 3.5+ numbers in  2H02. We don't expect that kind of activity; that tends to be more  of an economist number. Consumers didn't slack off in terms of  housing and car. We don't expect a pop. It's a positive outlook. 

 Q5.  In the post-Enron and post-9/11 environment, there's an acute examination of accounting principles and earnings. What's the impact on lending and financing? 

 A.  We're seeing a pullback in commercial paper, which is harder to sell, and customer are putting in more permanent financing. We saw takedown in lending in line (phonetic) in telecoms world due to inability to place commercial paper. We think commercial paper  backup lines will shrink, more permanent financing, more long-term  financing at higher rate. We see a greater distinction between  companies with transparency and no cloud to those that have it. We  think this is healthy, because we think we'll get paid better for  the risks we take or move away from deals with low risk reward.  Because we're so dominant in terms of customer list and base of  corporate lending and investment banking. We'll still use our  balance sheet for underwriting and lines of credit. We'll be more  discerning; it will be difficult until confidence is restored in  what companies say about their results. 

 Q6. ((inaudible))  What does that mean for balance sheet management? 

 A.  We'll stay with the originates (phonetic) distribute model, most of  wholesale world will be distributed. We'll drop corporate loans until we get to $50b and stabilize. We'll build balance sheet on the consumer side. As that picks up, our mix will continue to tip  heavier on the consumer side, where we're getting paid for the risk  and capital usage and increasing operating leverage. You may see  billed on commercial lending side, unless we reactivate commercial  CLOs. We'll do that with appropriate spread and return on capital  usage. We expect corporate wholesale to come down and everything  else to rise. Cash flow will have no impairments on buyback stock or  retaining sufficient capital, so that won't be a restriction. 

 Q7. (Chip Dixon, Lehman Brothers)  What is normalized net chargeoff ratios? Talk about components that  depress margins? Why were professional fees down? 

 A.  Guidance before was 950 level on Q basis or 3.9 for year flat 1Q is  better; 1Q02 has recoveries in it, unknown if level will stay; we haven't seen as much catch-up on consumer, we'll have to wait. Our  net interest yield dropped  by 10 basis points, but the spread  stayed flat, so the drop in net interest yield impacted by  noninterest funds, equity and stock buyback predominantly. Keeping  the spread flat from 4Q to 1Q where we saw a drop in sub prime real  estate is a good signal. Fees are the result of 4Q catch-up. We're  not using consultants as often as last year or quarter to implement  the Six Sigma program, which is showing benefits. 

 Q8. (Catherine Murray, JP Morgan)  Do you expect net interest income to be flat or will it start to go  up? 

 A.  We expect it to be flat until you see earnings asset rise, which will come from loan growth mostly in commercial side and us  reputting (phonetic) on securities when interest rates go up. Right  now we're at low levels on both. 

 Q9. (Catherin Murray, JP Morgan)  If mortgage banking business volume comes down, will that have a  negative effect on net interest income? 

 A.  Not really. The impact is predominantly on origination fee side. You'll see continued uptick on servicing side and less amortization  of intangibles. 

 Q10. (Catherine Murray, JP Morgan)  How will review of FASB 140 affect BAC balance sheets? 

 A.  The new bulletin deals with non-140 qualified; we've looked at it and see no impact that we haven't already made in balance, but customers do. Impact most likely in conduit world, likely go on  books of customers. Whether they stay in mode or disappear we don't  know. Commitments aredown $10b from 4Q01 nothing went up. 

 Q11. (Roger Sullivan, Putnam Investment)  How much of $17b in prime securitization remains on your balance  sheet? Tier 1 is at 8.6%, and will be 10% June 2003. When does it  stop? 

 A.  We're right around 10, but I haven't checked. It's built into balance sheet management; we'll call you if we're off. We hope to  see Tier 1 ratio come down due to business growth. We're making  investments in productivity and improving the business. When the  economy picks up, we expect loan growth and we're buying back shares  and will continueto do so. The goal is not to run to 10; it's to put  it to use. 

 Q12. (Roger Sullivan, Putnam Investment)  Will we see progress near-term? 

 A.  It's tough until we see higher growth rate in earnings assets. We will bring down other commitments. Off balance sheet commitments are accruing capital. As we drop, it adds to Tier 1 Capital. 

 Q13. (Roger Sullivan, Putnam Investment)  Can you accelerate buyback to keep it from growing? 

 A.  We bought back 31m shares, but we've seen option exercise. We have to step up pace to have net reduction of 15m shares in 1Q02, 31m purchased and 16m options exercised. 

 Q14. (Andy Cullens, US Bank Corp.)  Assuming a flattened yield curve, where does that leave you in terms  of commercialization loan growth? Could that lead to higher net  interest income? 

 A.  We reached 4% net interest margin in Dec and saw it fall off in 1Q02  due to buybacks, slow earning asset growth, and reduction of consumer subprime loans. We'll see margin where it is until rates go up, then deposit strategy will benefit us. We're less than 100% funded, which will benefit us as we grow loans. 

 Q15. (Andy Cullens, US Bank Corp.)  How much is new accounts vs. existing? 

 A.  It's a little of both. We had strong 1Q02 in terms of new checking accounts. We see continued liquidity, servicing, and better account retention.  We saw 8% growth YonY and movement out of our of CDs and savings. 

 Q16. (Nancy Bush, Ryan Beck & Company)  On the venture capital side, are you confident that you can stay in  positive territory? 

 A.  We predicted heavy impairment in 1Q02, mainly because of fund investment. We do not expect run rates to continue, and we expect pickup on cash side, so we expect better continued improvement in principal investing in 2Q, 3Q, and 4Q. 

 Q17. (Nancy Bush, Ryan Beck & Company)  You were the subject of a Wall Street Journal article on tax  strategy, do you feel confident that you won't have to restate  anything? 

 A.  We have slight confidence about it. There's been a lot of discussion  about tax policy as it relates to Bermuda.  We'll see where it goes,  but there's nothing out there now that impacts it. 

 Q18. (Nancy Bush, Ryan Beck & Company)  Any thought that subsidiaries havebeen done and might be rolled off  as bad bank? 

 A.  Not at all. We need skill set for working out problem credits. We don't this as being like AMRESCO (phonetic). When that was spun off, we didn't need it.  This is 350-400 people engaged in rehabilitating credits. 

 Q19. (Nancy Bush, Ryan Beck & Company)  Please comment regarding cash flow. 

 A.  We had prestock buyback cash flow in 2001 of $12.5b after-tax. We expect number to go up. We have excellent cash flow. We're using it  to strengthen balance sheet and buy back shares. We'll also use it  to reinvest in the business. Earning asset growth will come from  deposit funding as opposed to free cash flow. We would consider  using it for acquisitions if those acquisitions meet the test of  being accretive (phonetic) and fit in well with business lines. 

 Q20. (Nancy Bush, Ryan Beck & Company)  Where are we on auto residual values? 

 A.  We're down to 350,000 vehicles, with another 55k in 1Q02. We have approx. $4.8b remaining in receivable, part residual, and part interest contract. We saw loss per vehicle drop in 1Q02. We're not done but they run off at 200,000 per year. When we announced discontinuance of the auto leasing business, we had 500,000  vehicles, and now we're down to 350,000. If car manufacturers pull  back on new car incentives, which they're indicating, that is  positive for us because used car prices won't drop. 

   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy4f002t0
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q4  2001  Bank  of  America  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
1,724 words
   PD
22 January 2002
   ET
02:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . James Hance, Bank of America, CFO   . Kevin Stitt, Bank of America, Investor Relations 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 4Q01 earnings were $2.1bn, with diluted EPS at $1.28, up 51% versus 4Q00; 4Q01 increase in net interest income of 4% versus 3Q01; FY2001 operating earning at $8.40bn or $4.95 per diluted share; FY2001 82m shares repurchased at $4.7bn; FY2001 loans down $63bn versus 2000; good dividend payment expected in 2002. Q&A focus: effect of economic trends; tax issues; outlook for forward-looking growth/improvement. 

 FINANCIAL DATA 

 A. Key Data from Call  4Q01 earnings $2.1bn, $1.28 diluted EPS; FY2001 earnings up 5%  versus 2000; 2002 earnings expected at $5.63 (6% increase in diluted  EPS). 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. FY 2001 Operational Review   1. Operating earning: $8.40bn or $4.95 diluted EPS, excluding exit      charges announced in August.   2. Earnings up 5% versus 2000.   3. Consumer and Commercial revenue up 7%, earnings up 6%.   4. Global, Corporate and Investment revenue growth of 13%   5. Expense growth of 4%.   6. Tier 1 capital ratio ended 2001 at 8.3% (7.5%).   7. 2001: repurchased 82m shares at $4.7bn.   8. FY loans to domestic deposit ratio ended year at 99% (126%).   9. 2001 customer satisfaction scores and retention showed improved.   10. Loans down $63bn over 2000.   11. Allowance for loan losses increased to 2.1% (1.7%) of loan      portfolio. 

 B. 4Q01 Operational Review   1. Earnings $2.1bn, $1.28 diluted EPS, up 51% versus 4Q00 ($0.85)      and flat on 3Q01.   2. Continued growth in credit cards and consumer mortgages.   3. Increase in net interest income of 4% versus 3Q01. Net interest      margin improved to 3.95%. 4. FY net interest margin improved 48 basis points to 3.68%.   5. FY net interest income increased 11%.   6. 4Q01 securities gains totalled $393m.   7. Two consumer finance securitizations in 4Q01 totalled $18bn.   8. Of $22bn real estate loans on balance sheet at end of June 2001,      only $1bn remains.   9. Fee revenue: consumer and commercial banks non-interest income      increased 7% versus 3Q01.   10. 4Q01 service charges increased 5% versus 3Q01.   11. 4Q01 mortgage banking income increased 53% versus 3Q01.   12. Debit card revenue grew by 8%. Increased card activation by      6%.   13. 15% growth in active online banking subscribers.   14. Global Corporate and Investment Banking revenue: 55% increase      in Investment Banking to $473m.   15. Investment Banking income at record levels.   16. Securities underwriting increased 47% to $232m.   17. Debt underwriting increased 24% versus 3Q01.   18. Equity underwriting doubled.   19. Loans syndication fees increased 47% to $122m versus 3Q01.   20. Advisory services more than doubled versus 3Q01 to $104m.   21. Trading revenue fee and net interest income down 12% QonQ.   22. Fee income in Asset Management Group: up 2%.   23. Assets Under Management increased $32bn, or 12% to $314bn.   24. 10% increase in equity based funds.   25. 16% increase in money market and other short-term funds.   26. Equity investments     1. Non interest income -$55m.     2. Total 2001 impairment (phonetic) approx. $335m versus 2001        cash gains $425m 3. Total 4Q01 non-interest expense up.     4. 4Q01 litigation expenses increased by $334m.   27. Credit Quality     1. $210m added to allowance for credit losses for 4Q01.     2. 4Q01 charge-offs increased $338m versus 3Q01.     3. From 31 December 2001, exposure to Enron consisted of: $42m of        unsecured non performing loans written down by $187m , or 82%. $184m of secured non-performing loans written down by 11%.        $60m in loans to companies in which Enron has investments. 4. Remaining reserves should be adequate to handle any additional charge-offs relating to Enron.     5. Excluding Enron, 4Q01 net charge-offs increased.     6. Managed bankcard charge-off ratio increased to 4.90% (4.81%).     7. Non performing assets rose $385m or 9%.     8. At YE: non-performing assets represented 1.5% of loan portfolio.     9. Strategic Solutions Inc. (SSI) was funded as subsidiary in        2001.     10. Since 3Q01, through SSI, there were sales of $313m of        non-performing loans.     11. Since 3Q01, total sale of problem loans totalling $950m.     12. Tax benefit of $418m relating to transfer of ownership from        Bank of America to SSI. 28. Argentina     1. Total exposure to Argentina at YE2001 was $745m. 2. Exposure at YE2001 has dropped by 30%.   29. Unusual Items     1. SSI lower tax expense item of $418m.     2. Securities gains of $393m. 3. Higher litigation expense of $334m     4. Severance expense of $150m.     5. Increase in loan loss reserve of $207m.     6. Enron related losses of $231m. 

 C. Outlook 2002   1. Major Factors     1. No significant growth expected until 3Q02.     2. Modest loan growth expected in 2002.     3. Consumer lending continue to focus on mortgages, home equity loans, credit cards and small business credits.     4. Versus FY01, FY02 total managed loan growth aimed at 1-2%.     5. FY02 net interest income expected to be flat to slightly up.     6. Impact of rate changes will impact net interest income less        that 1% either way.     7. Reduction in net interest income expected in 1Q02.   2. Fees     1. Mortgage banking income will continue to benefit from        expanding capacity.     2. Asset management expected to show mid single digit increases        in fee revenue.     3. Global Corporate and Investment banking: positioned to rebound        quickly when market picks up. 4. Equity investment gains should pick up in 2002 - should exceed 2001 results.     5. 2002 total revenue including net interest income and fee        income expected to be up 3-5% on 2001.     6. Expense growth will remain minimal.     7. FASB 142 (phonetic) starts in 1Q02, and will result in lower        amortisation expense of around $0.09 per share.   3. Credit quality     1. 2002 quarterly charge-offs expected to average at least $90m.   4. Capital Trends     1. Attractive dividend expected to be paid.     2. 2001 actual cash flow exceeded $8bn used for share buybacks        and dividends.  Same dynamics expected to apply in 2002. 

 D. Conclusion   1. 2002 earnings expected at $5.63, 6% increase in diluted EPS. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1.  Question on margin trends. 

 A.  Very good margin trends experienced in 2001.  Securities gains: today = around net $1.1bn of unrealised and realised securities. 

 Q2.  Question on migration of commercial and corporate credit and K-Mart  exposure. 

 A.  Migration: slowing of commercial and corporate credit evident. 4Q01  dominated by fall off of Enron.  We are seeing some front end pipeline stability. We Have no K-Mart exposure. 

 Q3.  Question on deposit growth and trading component in Argentina. 

 A.  We are seeing good deposit growth, expected to be sustainable. Trading activities and exposure in Argentina have been settled out. Derivative activities with Enron are being settled out. 

 Q4.  Trading weakness? 

 A.  Trading weakness experienced quarter to quarter.  Some dramatic pick  seen in 1Q02. 

 Q5.  Question on pipeline for Investment Banking? 

 A.  Pipeline looks good.  All areas surprisingly strong in Investment Banking. 

 Q6.  Question on economic trends. 

 A.  We are seeing pick up in economic signals.  Mid to low investment level.  However Consumer is still under pressure.  4Q01 slight pick  up detected in credit card charge-offs. The Consumer is currently  more wealthy now versus the last ten years.  We do not expect the  situation to worsen.  We remain cautious. 

 Q7.  Question on off balance sheet exposures. 

 A.  largest off balance sheet items are disclosed.  Likelihood of becoming on balance sheet is low.  Conduit and customer type transactions amount to approximately $39bn.  Conduit is the largest piece.  There are some securitizations, most of which coming back  onto balance sheet, totalling $13bn. 

 Q8.  Question on tax benefit from SSI. 

 A.  Strategic Solutions Inc. loans are included in the balance sheet. In setting it up, we achieved a one-time tax benefit amounting to $418m . 

 Q9.  Question on guidance for 2002 tax rate. 

 A.  36%. 

 Q10.  Question on new list of potential customers from Olympics? 

 A.  Some expected.  We will maximise on all opportunities for banking presence.  Some new card business and perhaps carry over (phonetic) business expected.  Some lift expected from Olympics advertising. 

 Q11. (Tom McCanleth(phonetic))  What do expect for the range of revenue growth in 2002?   What type  of cash based efficiency ratio are you trying to attain? 

 A.  Revenue growth GCIB: less net interest income expected.  Less corporate credit loss expected.  Efficiency base: expected to be in high 40s or 50%. 

 Q12.  Investment banking: is it possible to get double digit revenue growth out of debt in 2002? 

 A.  I do not know.  We are planning cautiously. 

 Q13.  Within consolidated income statement, other non-interest income down  quarter on quarter $150m - anything special? 

 A.  Various factors: CLO charge-off; decrease in valuation on life insurance among other items.  It decreased $139m from 3Q01. 

 Q14.  Outlook for charge-offs: Corporate versus Consumer? 

 A.  Charge-off on bankcards will rise considerably.  We are not clear on  timing.  Consumer expected to rise before end of year and Corporate expected to fall. 

 Q15.  Where are the greatest opportunities for severance and incremental  overhead improvements? 

 A.  Expect greatest improvements in larger processes, centring in consumer banks and products. 

 Q16.  Capital ratios: is there a constraining ratio that you are managing  towards?  How much more shrinkage should we expect in balance sheet? 

 A.  Not much decrease in balance sheet expected.  Capital: we are comfortable with capital levels.  Most restrictive ratio is Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.3%.  We have extremely strong capital.  Base and Tier 1 should not go below 7.5%. 

 Q17. (Nancy Bush)  Litigation reserve: anything specific there?  What is maximum  achievable and sustainable ROE? 

 A.  Litigation: some is a reserve for old suits, some for litigation costs in the quarter.ROE: we have been around 17% for some time.  We have goal of 20%.  This is not expected to be achieved within 2002.Sustainability uncertain. 

 Q18.  Question on bankcard losses. 

 A.  We are planning for the high 5% range. 

 Q19.  Question on accounting principles on charge-offs. 

 A.  Accounting principles: 180 days, and or bankruptcy.  Asset management fee recognition principles: as asset management values fall, so do fees. 

 Q20.  Question on where strength is detected. 

 A.  We are seeing surprising strength from the Consumer.  Card volumes strong, mortgage business strong.  Credit quality holding up well. Deposit growth evident and more activity.   Increased online  activity and small business activity.Improvement in Commercial  expected to be slow. 

   CO
ncnbco : Bank of America Corporation
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy1m000yv
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and hd=bank and hd=america not hd=event
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
62
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 9:00 AM GMT
  
