 
•	 Q3 2016 Chevron Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Chevron Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Chevron Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Chevron Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Chevron Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Chevron Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Chevron Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Chevron Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Chevron Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 Chevron Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Chevron Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Chevron Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Chevron Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2008 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2008 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2008 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2008 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2007 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2007 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q4 2006 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2006 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2006 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2006 Chevron Earnings Conference Call - Final  


 HD
 Q3  2016  Chevron  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,908 words
   PD
28 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Miss Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

   TD
PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Okay, thank you, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Bruce Niemeyer, Vice President Mid-Continent business unit, and Frank Mount, General Manager of Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2. I will begin with a recap of our third-quarter 2016 financial and operational results and then Bruce will provide an update on our Permian basin business prior to my concluding remarks.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's third-quarter earnings were $1.3 billion, or $0.68 per diluted share. Third-quarter results included $290 million in special items related to a deferred tax benefit from the UK tax rate change and the receipt of an Ecuador arbitration award.

Excluding these special items, as well as the positive impact from foreign exchange effects of $72 million, earnings for the quarter totaled $921 million, or $0.49 per share. A detailed reconciliation of special items and foreign exchange is included in the appendix to this presentation.

Cash from operations for the quarter was $5.3 billion and our debt ratio at quarter end was 23.7%. Our net debt ratio was approximately 20%. During the third quarter we paid $2 billion in dividends.

Earlier in the week we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $1.08 per share payable to stockholders of record as of November 18, 2016. Our annual per share payout for 2016 will be $4.29 per share and represents the 29th consecutive year of growth in the annual per-share payout. We currently yield 4.3%.

Turning to slide 4. Cash generated from operations was $5.3 billion during the third quarter and $9 billion year to date. Year-to-date working capital effects of $1.3 billion and $3.1 billion in deferred tax items, for example those associated with tax loss positions, reduced year-to-date operating cash. These are timing effects.

Proceeds from asset sales totaled $800 million in the third quarter, including the sale of selected Gulf of Mexico assets. These transactions had a minimal impact on earnings in the quarter. Year-to-date asset sale proceeds are $2.2 billion.

We continue to pursue a number of potential transactions and we remain confident that we can achieve our $5 billion to $10 billion target for total proceeds over this year and next.

Cash capital expenditures for the quarter were $4.1 billion, a decrease of $2.7 billion from the third quarter of 2015. Year-to-date cash investment outlays have totaled approximately $14 billion.

During the quarter we advanced $2 billion to Tengizchevroil, or TCO, in support of the FGP project. This outflow is reflected in our cash flow statement as a borrowing by equity affiliates. This first co-lending tranche provides sufficient funding as the project commences. Future advances are expected and the timing will be dependent upon oil prices, TCO's internal cash generation and the project's pace of investment.

At quarter end our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $7.7 billion and our net debt position was $37.9 billion.

Turning now to slide 5. Slide 5 compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year. Third-quarter 2016 results were $754 million lower than third-quarter 2015 results.

Special items, primarily the deferred tax benefit related to the UK tax rate change, the award of an Ecuador arbitration claim, and the absence of third-quarter 2015 asset impairments, increased earnings by $535 million between periods.

Lower foreign-exchange gains decreased earnings by $322 million between periods. As a reminder, most of our foreign-exchange impacts stem from balance sheet translation.

Upstream earnings, excluding special items and foreign-exchange, were largely flat between quarters as lower crude realizations were offset by lower operating expenses and favorable tax impacts. Downstream results, excluding special items and FX, decreased by $1 billion primarily driven by lower worldwide refining margins and lower earnings from CPChem.

Turning now to slide 6. Here I will compare results for the third quarter of 2016 with the second quarter of 2016. Third-quarter results were approximately $2.8 billion higher than the second quarter.

The absence of second-quarter 2016 charges associated with special items and the inclusion of third-quarter gains from special items increased earnings by $2.7 billion between periods. Lower foreign-exchange gains reduced earnings by approximately $200 million between periods.

Upstream results, excluding special items and foreign exchange, were comparable between quarters, in line with relatively flat Brent prices. Lower operational expenses were offset essentially by lower lifting and adverse tax impacts.

Downstream earnings, excluding special items and foreign exchange, were higher by $255 million primarily resulting from the absence of unfavorable second-quarter inventory valuation effects. Prices were generally rising during the second quarter but relatively flat during the third quarter.

Turning to slide 7, here we compare the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the third quarter of 2016 and the third quarter 2015. Net production decreased by 26,000 barrels per day between quarters.

Major capital projects increased production by 77,000 barrels a day as ramp ups continued at Gorgon, Jack/St. Malo, Chuandongbei and Angola LNG. About half of this bar is Gorgon.

Shale and tight production increased by 50,000 barrels per day primarily due to the growth in the Midland and Delaware basins in the Permian with all shale and tight basins reflecting year-on-year growth. More than half of this bar is Permian production.

Our base business declined with 66,000 barrels per day. Production from new wells and other brownfield investments in the base added 39,000 barrels per day and helped hold the overall base decline rate to less than 2%.

The sale of our Michigan assets and several assets in the Gulf of Mexico shelf resulted in decreased production of 47,000 barrels per day. Disruptions due to external events accounted for the temporary shut in of 27,000 barrels per day, mainly due to security issues in Nigeria.

Our planned turnaround activity was heavier than this time last year, resulting in a decrease of 26,000 barrels per day, the most significant of which was at TCO as we completed the turnaround of the second generation plant.

Based on nine months of actuals and our forecast for the fourth quarter, we anticipate full-year 2016 production will be approximately 2.6 million barrels per day.

Turning now to slide 8. As we indicated on the second quarter call, we expect to exit the year with December production in the range of 2.65 to 2.7 million barrels per day, or growth in the range of 150,000 barrels per day from the third-quarter average.

A major contributor, as previously discussed, is TCO's return to production on September 9 following the largest planned turnaround in its history ahead of schedule, under budget and without serious incidents or injuries.

Over the course of six weeks maintenance was conducted on more than 500 pieces of equipment. At its peak over 8,800 employees and contractors were on site for the turnaround. The team worked proactively with over 30 contract companies on all stages of planning, preparation and execution. This was a large undertaking that was exceptionally well executed.

The second contributor to volume growth in December is the ramp up of our LNG projects, notably Gorgon. At Gorgon, Train 1 production is stable and Train 2 is now online.

At Angola LNG, the plant reached a rate of approximately 5 million tons per year of LNG. Production has been suspended while minor modifications to reach full capacity are completed. Short duration shutdowns are often experienced as facilities are ramped up to their full capacity.

ALNG expects to restart the plant within the next couple of weeks and will continue to ramp up and fine-tune the system. Since the initial restart earlier this year they have shipped 8 LNG cargoes and 16 LPG cargoes.

In addition to LNG volume increases, we achieved first production from Bangka in August and expect first production from Alder before year end. We also expect continued growth in our unconventionals and from our base business investments.

Turning now to slide 9. At Gorgon, total Train 1 LNG production has been stable at an average rate of 110,000 barrels per day, which is about 5 million tons per year. We are also producing about 6,700 barrels per day of condensate.

As mentioned, Train 2 is running and producing LNG. Production is expected to ramp up over the coming months. We have shipped 17 cargoes to date and with both trains now running we expect to ship an average of two to three cargoes per week. Construction on Train 3 is progressing very well and we expect first LNG in the second quarter of 2017.

At Wheatstone our outlook for first LNG remains mid-2017 for Train 1. We are leveraging our experience from Gorgon and are pleased with our progress. All modules for Train 1 and Train 2 are now on site and the installation of piping, electrical and instrumentation continue as planned.

As we have foreshadowed, the delay in module delivery at Wheatstone has impacted project costs relative to the original 2011 estimate. We now forecast the total project cost at completion to be $34 billion. Chevron's share of the cost to complete the project is included in the $17 billion to $22 billion capital guidance range that we have previously communicated for the 2017 to 2018 years.

Bruce will now provide an update on our activities in the Permian. Bruce?

BRUCE NIEMEYER, VP MID-CONTINENT, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 10. As we have shared previously, Chevron enjoys a very strong acreage position in the Permian basin. Our acreage is extensive, covering about 2 million acres. We have major holdings in the best basin locations and enjoy a significant royalty advantage over our competitors.

Our strategy in the Permian is centered on building a large-scale asset that delivers strong returns and generates free cash flow. To accomplish this we have implemented a well factory, modeled after the most efficient short cycle operations in Chevron and in industry.

The goal of this factory is to create repeatable high-value outcomes at sufficient scale that are material for Chevron. Decisions around many key design elements are consistently implemented, not only the obvious ones such as horizontal lateral length, well spacing and completion parameters, but also hundreds of other decisions that we face on a routine basis for which we want consistent outcomes.

As we identify and verify improvements they are quickly implemented into our basis of design. Our pace has been intentionally deliberate to allow us to incorporate the learnings and experience from own work and that of the industry. The result is a high degree of confidence that we will achieve the outcomes we expect. Our results are competitive and continue to improve.

Turning to slide 11, you can see Chevron's acreage position in more detail. This slide is a map of the Permian basin inclusive of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas. Our 2 million acres are depicted in blue, 1.5 million of which are in the Midland and Delaware basins.

Also depicted on the map are active Chevron-operated developments in blue and our non-operated development areas in purple. We believe the quality of our acreage position is exceptional, with multiple stack geologic targets.

Today, we estimate that almost 600,000 of our acres have a net value in excess of $50,000 per acre. We have an additional 350,000 acres with a net value between $20,000 and $50,000 per acre. The balance of our acreage is a mix. Some is of lower quality, some is still under evaluation, some lacks nearby infrastructure, and some requires further appraisal.

These estimates are a snapshot that assumes a simultaneous development, a flat $50 WTI price and are burdened with all the development and production costs as we see them today.

We are active in several Company-operated and non-operated joint venture development areas. We are currently running eight drilling rigs on our operated acreage, we are standing up our ninth rig as we speak and expect to be at 10 by the end of the year. Another 10 rigs are currently drilling on our non-operated development areas.

We prioritize development areas by value, which considers expected ultimate recovery, cost of development, oil/gas split, availability of surface infrastructure and our overall certainty of outcome.

Turning to slide 12. To achieve strong returns, we focus on all elements necessary to generate cash flow - capital efficiency, operating expense and product realizations. The graph in the upper right corner shows development cost per barrel, which, in our view, is the ultimate measure of capital performance as it incorporates all sub metrics.

We have achieved a 30% development cost reduction from 2015 fully inclusive of drilling, completions, facilities and associated G&A. We have accomplished this through a focus on improving expected ultimate recovery, driving execution efficiencies and implementing supply chain savings. This is delivering capital performance that is competitive with the operators of our joint ventures.

The trend of improvement is mirrored in our overall unit operating expense. The lower right graph reflects both the downward trend and competitive performance of our direct lease operating expense and illustrates a significant reduction of 45% from 2015.

Our lease operating expense includes all costs required to operate a well and its associated facilities during its life. We expect these wells to produce for decades, so attention to operating efficiency unlocks value.

Additionally, G&A, which is not included in the graph on the lower right, is a component of overall operating expense. Our year-to-date G&A is $3.50 a barrel, declining through the year and more than 20% from 2015.

The third critical aspect of cash flow is product realizations. We have leveraged the scale of our core positions to systematically secure cost-effective priority access through the entire crude and gas value chain rather than simply selling production at the wellhead. Because of this we have options available to respond to changing market and industry conditions.

Turning to slide 13. We expect activity and production from the Permian to grow through the end of the decade. As we discussed in our Analyst Day last March, by the end of 2020 Chevron's Permian shale and tight production is expected to reach 250,000 to 350,000 barrels per day. As you can see on the chart, we have initiated this growth.

Production continues to track ahead of expectations and is 24% higher than third quarter 2015. We continually monitor our performance and have the option to adjust the pace of our growth as needed to optimize value from this asset.

While growing production is important, we are focused on expanding margins by increasing efficiencies in our operations and on capturing maximum value from the resource base. We believe we are well-positioned to make the Permian a legacy asset with strong returns and free cash flow. I'll now hand back to Pat to discuss spend reductions. Pat?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you, Bruce. Now on slide 14. We continue to reduce our spend. You can see on the charts the huge progress that we have made and continue to make in curtailing our outflows. We expect 2016 combined operating expense and capital expenditure outflows to be down more than $12 billion, or more than 20% from 2015.

We expect to meet, if not exceed the commitment we made earlier in the year to have 2016 operating expenses come in $2 billion lower than 2015. And our C&E is trending below the guidance range previously provided for this year. We will likely end the year below $25 billion in capital outlays, in fact potentially coming in closer to $24 billion.

This is a tremendous amount of progress in a relatively short 24-month period of time to reset these key financial parameters consistent with a lower-for-longer price environment.

Turning to slide 15. I would like to close with just a couple of points. First, our financial priorities have not changed. Sustaining and growing the dividend is our first priority. The increase this quarter demonstrates that commitment, which is underpinned by confidence in our future earnings and cash flow growth.

Second, we are beginning to see evidence of that cash flow growth, notably now that Gorgon Train 1 is operating well and Train 2 is successfully online and with Gorgon's Train 3 and Wheatstone Trains 1 and 2 planned to come on in fairly rapid succession over the next five quarters.

We have approximately 85% of the production from these five trains sold under long-term contracts. And at today's contractual LNG prices, this represents a significant revenue and cash margin boost.

Third, we have successfully transitioned to a lower price environment. Of course, we are not resting on these recent accomplishments. We will continue to look for opportunities to improve cost and capital efficiency.

We are poised to be a very resilient competitor in a low price world. Our Permian asset base speaks directly to this. Here we have an abundance of riches in terms of the physical asset base and we are successfully demonstrating the ability to develop this resource in a highly capital efficient, returns-focused manner.

With costs coming down, with C&E and capital intensity coming down, with our major LNG projects and the Permian production coming online to boost cash margins and production our overall financial picture is set to improve in a meaningful way as we move into 2017.

Our objective is to get cash balanced in 2017 assuming $50 Brent prices. All of these improvements I have just noted, as well as targeted asset sales where we can transact for value, are key components supporting that objective.

So this concludes our prepared remarks and we are now ready to take some questions. Please keep in mind that we do have a full queue and try to limit yourself to one question or perhaps one follow-up if necessary. We will certainly do our best to get all of your questions answered.

So, Jonathan, could you open the lines please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jason Gammel, Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: And thanks especially for the incremental disclosure on the Permian. I would like to direct my question there.

Bruce, you mentioned that the finding and development cost was probably one of the most important metrics that you have in the basin. Can you talk about how you are benchmarking yourself against some of the E&P companies in the basin and how you think that might improve as you get your infrastructure into place?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: Thanks for the question, Jason. On slide 12 we showed finding and development cost per barrel. The lighter bars are the Chevron operated activity and the darker bars are those of our NOJV competitors where we also invest.

That is our best direct benchmarking comparison because we invest in the wells and we're able to see the full value chain that is created. We are able to address financial performance issues directly that aren't often available from a less complete data set.

I suppose there is a narrative that a company of our size can't be competitive, but in the case of Chevron we are. The NOJV partners that are listed on this chart are some of the best in the basin and you can see on the chart that our performance today is competitive and improving.

JASON GAMMEL: That is great. Just as a follow-up, can you maybe address the pace of development that you think you could achieve? I recognize that you have got your projection of volumes through 2020. But with such a huge acreage position what type of rig program do you think you could ultimately apply in the basin?

And then I suppose the other question there would be, just given the position you have, would you maybe consider monetizing some of the position through acreage sales or through joint ventures?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: Let me start with pace first. So we are already growing; as I noted, we have initiated the growth. In fact we have added five rigs over essentially the second half of 2016. That is a pace of rig additions of about one rig a month.

Production has grown from the third quarter of last year by 24%, further supporting the notion that we are growing and our pace and rate of additions are intentional. Again, we are focused on returns. I don't feel capital-limited in the Permian basin.

And our additions are targeted to ensure that we are getting the outcomes we intend and that are supportive of high returns and eventually generating free cash flow. We do expect to grow, as you noted, you can see that on slide 13. And as we go forward we have options. We continually monitor our performance and we adjust.

PAT YARRINGTON: And, Jason, let me just add a thought to that. As you know we have had a practice of evaluating assets when we have pieces of our portfolio where we felt there wasn't long-term strategic value or we felt others would offer more value to us than we would obtain in our portfolio. In those cases we have been willing to make asset sales, and we have had a very routine practice of having asset sales over a number of years.

I think the key to getting to that point in the decision process is having a really good understanding of the value of the asset. And in the Permian basin there has been a great deal of fluidity of that asset valuation over the last couple of years.

There has been additional appraisal and evaluation work and there has been greater understanding of the asset base, but there still has been significant movement in valuations. In some cases pieces of property have moved up by a factor of 10,000 fold.

And that is the kind of thing that you would not want to get on the wrong side of in your haste to make a decision about selling an asset. So our process will be to try to do evaluation and appraisal so that we'll get a really good understanding of the asset valuation.

And to the extent that we don't find it fitting into our longer-term development plan, then of course we would look to other monetization options.

FRANK MOUNT, GM OF IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Jason.

JASON GAMMEL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: A follow-up for Bruce on the Permian. How much are you guys spending there annually? Could you give us an idea of the level of CapEx and the outlook for CapEx?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: Yes, Paul. We are spending presently in the area of about $1.5 billion annually across both the Company operated and our non-operated joint venture programs.

PAUL SANKEY: And so the outlook for that is flat is it or is that going to go up?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: I would expect it to go up. At our current pace we are delivering a growth profile. You can see on slide 13 what we shared at the Analyst Day last March in terms of production growth and there will be some growing activity that would support that.

We are continually getting more efficient and so the capital invested that we expect going forward will be more efficient as reflected by the finding and development cost trend that we showed on slide 12.

PAUL SANKEY: Understood. So if I look at the Tengiz expansion, you are spending -- previously in September you had said $18 per BOE of development cost for I think a $36 billion investment. Why would you be spending so much less in the Permian at what I think looks like a $10 F&D cost per barrel? Maybe that one is for Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, it is. So, Paul, just a couple of things. If you go back to slide 13 here, I think we have said that -- and we said this back [in the SAM] and throughout the year here -- that we could see the top end of that light blue portion of the profile and that would result in approximately a doubling of our current activity levels.

We are spending $1.5 billion here, and you can see us potentially doubling that. That is the current view that we have, but again, this is an area that we will update you on when we get to the March security analyst meeting.

In reference to FGP, the future growth project in Tengiz, it is important to know that we are funding both of these projects, both the Permian fully and FGP. We think of these areas as being absolutely critical growth areas for us so we are not starving the Permian because we have taken on FGP.

I think what people often miss around FGP is that there would be a tremendous loss of value if we didn't go forward with the wellhead pressure management piece of the project because the field would go into serious decline and would be a loss of value in the legacy asset.

We are doing FGP and WPMP together because of synergies, it is a joint development concept, and there is a lot of upside that has not been built into people's models related to debottlenecking. The debottlenecking success we have been able to demonstrate in the past we hope to do on a go-forward basis.

There are also additional gas handling facilities built in to the project that will allow greater oil production. We have also talked about the full project contingency even though we were at 50% of engineering when we took FID.

And then of course down the road obviously we hope that this turns into concession extension. So there is a lot of potential upside to FGP. I think Jay did a great job on our second-quarter call in running through all of those parameters.

PAUL SANKEY: Got it. So what you are saying is $18 per barrel development cost is a very conservative number for FGP and it would be competitive with the Permian ultimately when all of these things are considered?

PAT YARRINGTON: We think we need both assets in our portfolio, yes.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you, Pat.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Two questions if I could. Bruce, what is the recovery rate that you use to get to that 9 billion barrel that are using - 10%, 12%? What do you expect and foresee that that recovery rate may change over the next say five years?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: So the 9 billion barrels is from a portion of our acreage that is currently highly characterized. It varies by horizon and by area in the Midland or Delaware Basins. Recoveries are generally single-digit and we know that in a basin or a play at this stage of maturity there is a lot of upside potential.

We have a technology organization that is working hard every day to take the first stage of development and improve upon it, much as we have in other asset classes that we operate in and are more mature.

PAUL CHENG: Will you be willing to give what you forecast that recovery rate may look like in five years?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: No, not at this point.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Pat, a second question then. Wheatstone - you're talking about a cost increase. Given the lower Australian dollar and supposedly weaker labor market which has translated into better productivity, can you elaborate a little bit more on what's causing the cost increase?

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure, Paul, as I said, we are now expecting a $34 billion total project cost, so that is up about $5 billion from the original AR. That original appropriation request was taken in 2011 and, as you can all appreciate, during the first few years of construction there was a much more heated market.

We have talked in the past about our late module delivery and this really was one of the primary drivers behind the cost increase. The modules were delayed due to poor performance at one of the fabrication yards.

The contractor was unable to effectively manage the size and the scale of the work scope that we had given. We recognized that somewhat early on, and we did end up redirecting some of the work to other yards. But even so, the modules were late.

A second factor that I would comment on is really an underestimation of the quantity of materials that were required. At the time we took FID on Wheatstone we had project engineering that was about 15% complete and so the rest was based on rules of thumb and factors.

As we matured the engineering definition, the amount of quantities needed increased substantially, and so that was a secondary reason behind the cost increase.

I would say the second element was something that we had seen on Gorgon as well and it is one of the primary areas where we are trying to improve our project execution going forward.

As you know, when we took FID on FGP we were at about 50% project engineering level. So this is one of the primary improvement practices that we are putting in place for future projects.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Bruce, you had made a comment on one of the earlier questions about a free cash flow focus and I was just wondering if you take together what you have said about capital spending and the production outlook.

When would you expect the Permian to become free cash flow positive? And how do you think about some of the assets in the Permian that might need some more material infrastructure spending?

Is that something that you guys are really willing to spend a lot of money on in the next few years or are you more focused on immediate cash flow?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: So thanks for the question, Phil. We will provide more color and specifics in the Analyst Day next March. We do have internal projections on when the overall program reaches free cash flow and that obviously depends on a number of factors including the trajectory that we pursue.

And I will remind you again, we have many options we can adjust based on the results that we see. We do have an integrated approach where we not only connect the upstream activity that we are engaged in - drilling and completing wells, but also pair that with midstream activity to move product to the market centers that we choose.

We typically engage in that through commercial transactions. It is a very competitive basin; there are a lot of companies that operate in that space. We typically deploy our capital in the areas where we can differentiate our performance in drilling and completions.

And then, working with high-quality third-party suppliers, look to them to move the crude to market, operate the gas processing and NGL fractionation activities.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, got it. Thanks. And then my follow-up -- I guess maybe this would be best for Pat, following on what Paul was asking about $10 F&D in the Permian, $18 for Tengiz.

Where would you say, as you are assessing the deepwater opportunities in the portfolio, particularly the brownfield side of things, how would that stack up at this stage as costs continue to come down?

PAT YARRINGTON: Brownfield would be very good. Greenfield would be a little bit more challenged, but brownfield would be very good.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Pat and Bruce and Frank, I am not sure who wants to take this one, but I guess Chevron has always been a Company led by large scale major project developments, exploration and so on.

And I guess what I am really trying to understand here is what are the limiting factors on the Permian given its flexibility, lower execution risk, the absence of the kind of cost issues you have had in things like Gorgon and Wheatstone.

I guess what I'm asking is -- is the Permian big enough to drive a much more meaningful strategic shift in how Chevron allocates capital longer-term? Is that what we are looking at here?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think best if I take that one here, Doug. When you have such an extraordinary asset base in the Permian, when it has as much depth and breadth to it -- and I don't mean that in a literal sense but a figurative sense -- such huge economic strength. Everything else in the portfolio really needs to be judged against those options.

We don't believe we want to be just a single asset class company, so we have great strategic capabilities and basin positions in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater. We have the Tengiz project that we talked about, we have the LNG projects.

We have a pretty broad-based portfolio here and we are not looking to take all activity down to the Permian. But the value of the Permian - its tremendous economic capability and its capital efficiency, its great flexibility, its short cycle/high return attributes ensure that other parts of the portfolio have to compete for capital against that.

So I think it raises the bar on where the incremental dollar is going to go. I think Permian will get the first call, but we will manage the portfolio. And over time you should still expect us to have some significant other projects. We can pace those projects quite nicely I think, and match those against the opportunities the Permian provides for us.

DOUG LEGGATE: So is it pretty simple, Pat, the Permian is going to take market share from the rest of your portfolio, is that a good way of thinking about it?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think that is reasonable within limits.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay, my follow-up just very quickly

PAT YARRINGTON: And we will go through more of this in the security analyst meeting in March because I think that is really where it's the appropriate time to lay out our portfolio.

DOUG LEGGATE: I guess a related question my follow-up is that there has been -- we haven't talked much about the disposals in a couple quarters. I am guessing a high grading exercise, if you want to call it that, like the Permian changes the map a little bit in terms of what competes for capital.

There has been some speculation around Bangladesh which is sizable obviously. I think you have talked about that publicly. Can you just give us an update as to where you see the changing map on disposals both in scale and for perhaps any identified assets that have changed since the Analyst Day?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. We really haven't changed our view. We look at asset sales when we can get good value, where we see it as not strategic or we don't see any kind of the compelling relationship within the Chevron portfolio.

We have announced certain assets for sale and we put a list out in the second quarter. The current list essentially is the same. I can confirm that there are commercial discussions going on in and around Bangladesh. But I will go back to the primary element here which is we want to get good value.

And so, on any of these transactions that we have queued up and are beginning to have people into data rooms, either in an early round or a secondary round, if in fact we don't get the value proposition that we are seeking then we will just move on.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Slide 12 is great and shows how you have made improvement. I guess you are still a little bit above the development cost of the non-operated JV partners. Is that geographical, are there some different ways that you approach the business? So just maybe some color on that.

BRUCE NIEMEYER: Sure, Ed. We are providing you quarterly data on this chart and it is an aggregation of everything that was completed in that particular quarter. And you are right to suspect that there is a little portfolio aspect to what goes on in any particular quarter.

We have operations in both the Midland and Delaware Basins on the Company operated side and on the NOJV side as well. And the mix of activity in any particular quarter is going to cause those bars to be up and down a little bit.

If we had the fourth quarter of 2015 you would see the first two quarters where the Company operated bars are a little lower and the last two quarters where the NOJV bars are a little lower. But we look internally at a much finer level of detail. Wolfcamp B wells in the Central Midland Basin that are a mile and a half laterals and are we comparable in that activity or not, and what do we address about that?

The overall performance is competitive and I will tell you that there is a competitive group, there is a lead pack in the Permian and we are a part of that. I think the data on slide 12 shows that and some of the quarter-to-quarter variations are simply a function of which particular wells are completing.

Because our costs include full cycle, there are facility costs in our bars in the quarter in which we start wells in a new area that have central tank batteries or other things that are being executed in that period.

ED WESTLAKE: It is just a great portfolio with also tax and royalty advantages. And you will want to get after it; the rest of the industry is getting after it. Maybe just give us some high-level thoughts about inflation.

On the one hand there are probably still learnings that can improve that development cost as you progress. On the other hand things might get a little hot over the next few years. So maybe just some high-level thoughts as to how you think about that.

BRUCE NIEMEYER: Yes, we have certainly driven in the last two years to a very positive position. We operate in a dynamic price environment and a dynamic activity environment.

Over the last two years we have really leveraged the scale of Chevron where we have an advantage to do so. So tubulars, or the pipe that goes in the wells, is a key cost component and Chevron buys a lot of pipe around the world. So we are able to leverage our worldwide supply chain effort to bring a pricing advantage to what we do.

We also consolidate work with key suppliers, they give us the right combination of unit price, execution performance, access to technology and the ability to grow with us.

And then we've put in place some contractual arrangements with unit-based fixed terms, some are index-based, some of these include performance incentives. But they are all intended to keep us on the competitive side of the price curve irrespective of what commodity prices are doing.

Structurally the things that stay with us in any price environment are things like multi-well pad designs which we have done for a very long time, the acreage position that we have that allows us to drill longer lateral lengths, and efficiencies we engage in on a daily basis such as zipper fracking where you have activities occurring simultaneously. Those will stay with us regardless of what price does.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks, Bruce.

OPERATOR: Neil Mehta, Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Pat, really good progress here on capital spending. Where do you believe we are tracking relative to guidance here in 2016 for CapEx? And then relative to the $17 billion to $22 billion, any early look of how the deflation you have seen in 2016 will carry forward?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, so I think we had said before that in 2016 we thought we would come in at around $25 billion. I think last time I said even below $25 billion. And this time I am really thinking we'll probably be closer to $24 billion. So a significant reduction from a year ago's time.

We are in the process of doing our business plan right now. The range that we put out for 2017 to 2018 is in the $17 billion to $22 billion range. I think we will be in that range. We are just going through and doing the business plan prioritization at the moment.

And typically we'll come out with a C&E press release after our Board approves the plan. I don't really want to get ahead of that. But obviously the cost efficiencies that we have seen, and that Bruce just talked through for his business unit, those are going on around the globe in terms of supplier optimization, supplier rationalization and we are getting our supply chain costs down.

That will continue and I think we will hold onto that. The one area where there probably is a little bit of an inflationary element will be the Permian because that is where investment is being attracted.

But when you look around that is really not happening in the rest of the world. Investment is not going to those locations, so we are not seeing those kind of cost pressures. We believe the efficiencies through the supply chain organization we been able to capture will hold there.

NEIL MEHTA: That is a good follow-up. And maybe for Bruce here, as you see activity pick up in the Permian, do you see any bottlenecks either from an infrastructure perspective, labor perspective, or other parts of that resource that will make it difficult for you to achieve the high end of the range that we talked about?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: We certainly recognize, Neil, that we have to plan ahead and we do so. When you think about takeaway, our efforts in maximizing realization have a secondary component which is flow assurance. To make sure that we are able to move to the market centers of the locations where we ultimately wish to sell without being disrupted.

When you get to the supply of drilling and completing wells and the suppliers that we work with, we pick intentionally in part for their ability to grow, both in terms of the availability of the equipment, the type of equipment we want and in terms of how they will staff and maintain that staffing going forward.

So there will be some changes overall in the basin, but we are taking a multi-year view and are able to look a little bit into the future and base our planning around that.

NEIL MEHTA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL: Pat, going back to the deflationary pressures you are seeing on CapEx. I think you alluded to a $50 Brent breakeven, which is pretty consistent with what you had articulated before. Is it fair to think that that number is trending lower also?

PAT YARRINGTON: We are working very hard to get that number lower, absolutely. And it certainly has moved down from when we first put that target out there, meaning our actuals are moving in that direction.

So, yes, we are trying as best we can through operating efficiencies and capital efficiencies to have our outflows contained relative to the inflows that we anticipate coming. So it's what I consider to be a cost structure reset and a capital expenditure reset given the environment that we are in.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, fair enough. And then, Bruce, on the Permian, it looks like you are trending above the top end of guidance on your range. Obviously you are adding rigs, we probably haven't seen the full impact of that yet. Is there any reason to believe that you are not on track to potentially surpass what the upper end of this range is here?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: Well, we are ahead now and our guidance remains the same at this point to 2020 -- 250,000 to 350,000 barrels a day. Our Analyst Day in March is the typical time where we would unpack more of that for you and everybody else.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Good deal. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good results today. My first question, staying with the Permian, Bruce I know some of your acreage in South West Reeves overlaps Apache's recently announced Alpine High play. Can you share your view on the viability of that play, potential economics and how that would or may compete for capital with this Permian core that you have laid out today?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: Sure, Evan. Well, let me start first by saying we are excited by this activity and hope it is fully successful. We have 180,000 acres in our portfolio and you can see it there on the slide. But it is a great example of how our strategy has played out across the Permian, allowing the industry to de-risk and create data that can refine our assessment.

Alpine High, that area in the southern part of Reeves County is right now on our overall portfolio pie in that wedge that is labeled less than $20,000 per acre. The subsurface is structurally more complex, it appears to be a little more gassy and it is far from existing infrastructure.

Additional positive data certainly has the potential to move that area to higher value. And if it does we go through a regular reset of priorities and we would adjust our activity, as that reset indicated.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Maybe my second is -- it is a follow-up to some prior Permian questions. Does the upside to your Permian production range, which is the same as it was in May despite improvements here?

Does that represent the limit to how much you can grow in a capital efficient manner and maybe that looks achievable on a 30-rig program by the end of 2020? And if so what are the limiting factors in your current plan to how much the Permian can take and subsequently grow?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: Well, so, our focus in the near-term and quite frankly throughout, is on capital efficiency. We are focused not on chasing a particular production curve -- growing production is important, growing volume is important, but retaining efficiency throughout is what we do.

We have many options going forward to adjust our pace of activity up and down. We have the ability to grow activity, but it is returns that we are ultimately focused on and that will drive our decision making going forward.

EVAN CALIO: Great.

OPERATOR: Brendan Warn, BMO Capital Markets.

BRENDAN WARN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning or good afternoon, wherever you are sitting in the world. I'm going to ask a question away from the Permian if I can. If I could just get an update on Rosebank in the UK North Sea just in terms of -- I know you are out rebidding and renegotiating. Just how you are seeing that project stack up in terms of its cost if you can give any update and I have a follow-up, please.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I think all I can say at this point, is in essence we are staying with that project in FEED while we are trying to get the development costs down. So I don't have a lot of specific information to provide for you.

With what has happened to oil price, and what has happened to the optionality that we have here in the Permian, there is a competing-for-capital element that Rosebank has to fight for within our portfolio. So we are continuing to work at it.

We recognize how important Rosebank is to the region, we recognize how important it is to the UK, but we have in the past been able to take a second look at the design and get costs down. In the past we have been able to re-characterize the subsurface and work improvements in there and we are still working on that same process.

BRENDAN WARN: And follow-up, just how much would the weaker pound assist that project in terms of economics?

PAT YARRINGTON: Obviously it would help, but I don't have the ability to quantify that for you at the moment.

BRENDAN WARN: Okay, thank you. Thanks, Pat.

OPERATOR: Anish Kapadia, TPH.

ANISH KAPADIA, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT: My first question was on some of your other potential international project sanctions. I wanted to get a little bit of an update on the Gulf of Mexico projects where you are at in terms of the appraisals and potential development. So the ones I was thinking of were the Anchor projects, the Tigris project and Sicily.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, so on Anchor we are still in the appraisal process, we feel positive about it but we are still in the appraisal process there. On Tigris there are multiple fields that are involved, appraisal drilling has been completed and we have filed for a suspension of production here. On Sicily we have allowed the leases to lapse.

ANISH KAPADIA: Okay, thank you. And then I had a question for Bruce on the Permian. Again thank you for the useful slides that you put out.

In terms of the high graded area that you have talked about, the 600,000 acres, within that I was wondering if you could give some idea of the number of locations that are contained within that in your current thinking. And which benches that you are looking at are you currently thinking are going to be developed in that acreage?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: Well, the areas that are at the top of our queue vary between the Midland and Delaware Basin as do the horizons. The things that we are most interested in are again those that create the right kind of full cycle returns. And so the oil/gas split between those areas, cost of execution of those areas is what causes them to be in the top tier for us.

So in the Midland Basin Wolfcamp B and the lower Spraberry are two horizons that we like a lot. We also like some aspects of the Wolfcamp in the Delaware Basin. We are drilling wells in a few other horizons.

But there isn't a one-size-fits-all. You move to one part of the basin and that particular horizon that you are interested in is just not as great a value as others. So what we do in these development areas is put together a strategy that paces development based on value.

We go to the best-performing horizon on a return basis first and then follow it with the others. There is not a simple answer that fits the whole basin.

ANISH KAPADIA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great result. Maybe I will stick on the trend and ask one Permian question followed by another one. In the Permian, if you look at your acreage, if you look on the map on 11, and you have shown this map a number of different times. But you've still got a lot of checkerboard acreage across core portions of the Permian basin.

Any further interest at this point in potential JVs or partnerships like you did with Cimarex in the past that would allow for an increasing amount of long laterals and capital efficient developments? How do you think about managing that acreage going forward?

BRUCE NIEMEYER: So it is a good question. We are actually very actively engaged in swaps working with the individuals that would own or have rights to checkerboarded acreage. And we have actually executed quite a number of those. It does allow us to extend laterals, concentrate facilities and infrastructure in certain places.

We will also contemplate joint ventures where that would lead us to the right kind of return outcomes if a combination of acreage in some way leads to a more efficient result.

But I will tell you what has been more active for us in the last year and a half, has been finding acreage consolidations that we can make through swaps. And that is bolstered by the fact that our Company operated execution is becoming highly efficient and those are the sorts of activities that are driving returns to the top of our queue.

RYAN TODD: Great, thanks. And then maybe if I could ask one question for Pat there, kind of a high-level philosophical one. If we look at what the majors such as yourself have been able to do in terms of capital reduction over the past couple years it has been quite impressive.

And as we look forward over the next let's say two to five years, and I realize there is a time variable in this. How do you think about what a reasonable level of sustainable CapEx is?

If you talk about potentially being sub $20 billion a year in a 2017, has there been enough structural cost deflation or efficiency gains that that is a reasonable medium-term level to think about longer-term? Or does that still feel like capital starvation mode and there is a need to bounce back into some level in the 20s as more sustainable over the medium-term?

PAT YARRINGTON: So I think the critical variable that you are leaving unsaid there is what is happening to price. Just a little bit on price, I think our own view here is that in the medium-term we are potentially going to be range-bound.

We are constructive on price and we do think over time there will be price appreciation, but we see it being relatively modest. But in the period that we are talking about here I don't see that changing our view of the $17 billion to $22 billion range being appropriate for us.

You are hearing an awful lot about the Permian being one of the best investment opportunities that we have. And the great thing about that is that it is short cycle, it is high return, it is very flexible. It lowers our capital intensity, gives us greater flexibility than we have had in several years.

And the only other major project that we've sanctioned at this point in time is TCO. Our share of that in terms of an outflow would be in the range of $2 billion to $3 billion a year over the next few years. So we consider that to be very manageable and that is within the $17 billion to $22 billion range that we have given you.

So I think that is a reasonable range on C&E to expect for us under a reasonable range of prices that might be anticipated. I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Just a quick one about Nigeria. You mentioned losing 28,000 a day in Q3. What kind of recovery have you seen on your Nigerian assets so far this quarter and what is embedded in the exit rate guidance that you gave for the year?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I think we have two factors going on. We have had some instances of sabotage as we have talked about. We had a more recent one here in the last couple of days. So that is obviously a detriment that is impacting Nigerian production.

But on the opposite side we have Agbami plateau extension investments coming on line. So I think that it is not a huge factor in terms of a variance in what we are showing for the December exit range.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Appreciate it.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay.

FRANK MOUNT: Thanks, Pavel.

PAT YARRINGTON: All right, so I think that concludes our call for the third quarter here. I would like to thank everybody for your time on the call. We certainly appreciate your interest in Chevron and we appreciate everybody's participation on the call. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's third-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Upstream Operations | iioil : Integrated Oil/Gas
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161029ecas0096l
  


 HD
 Q2  2016  Chevron  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,658 words
   PD
29 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

   TD
I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation. Ms. Pat Yarrington, please go ahead.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Okay. Thank you very much, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Jay Johnson, Executive Vice President, Upstream, and Frank Mount, General Manager of Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

I'll begin with a recap of our second-quarter 2016 financial results, and then Jay will provide an update on our upstream business, prior to my concluding remarks. Turning to slide 3, slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.

The Company's second-quarter loss was $1.5 billion or negative $0.78 per diluted share. Included in the quarter were impairments and other charges of $2.8 billion. These are primarily associated with certain assets where, through a combination of reservoir performance and price, revenue from oil and gas production is not expected to recover costs.

Excluding these items, as well as the impact of asset sale gains of $420 million and foreign exchange effects of $279 million, earnings for the quarter totaled $661 million or $0.35 per share. A detailed reconciliation of special items and foreign exchange is included in the Appendix to this presentation.

Cash from operations for the quarter was $2.5 billion, and our debt ratio at quarter end was approximately 23%. Our net debt ratio was a bit under 20%.

During the second quarter, we paid $2 billion in dividends. Earlier in the week, we announced a dividend of $1.07 per share, payable to stockholders of record as of August 19, 2016. We currently yield 4.2%.

Turning to slide 4, cash generated from operations was $2.5 billion during the second quarter and $3.7 billion year-to-date. Upstream cash generation was stronger than the first quarter, commensurate with rising crude prices.

Working capital effects of $2 billion and $2 billion in deferred tax items -- for example, those associated with tax loss positions -- reduced year-to-date operating cash. These are generally transitory effects which reverse in future periods. We expect a portion of the working capital drain to reverse later this year.

Proceeds from asset sales for the quarter totaled $1.3 billion, mainly from the sale of our New Zealand marketing assets, Canadian natural gas storage assets, and pipeline assets in North America. Cash capital expenditures were $4.5 billion, a decrease of over $3 billion from second-quarter 2015 and down more than $1 billion from the first quarter of 2016.

At quarter end, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled approximately $9 billion, and our net debt position was $36 billion.

Turning to slide 5, slide 5 compares current-quarter earnings with the same period last year. Second-quarter 2016 results were $2 billion lower than second-quarter 2015 results. Special items, primarily the absence of the second-quarter 2015 gain on the sale of Caltex Australia Limited, partially offset by the second-quarter 2016 gain on the sale of New Zealand marketing, reduced earnings by $1.4 billion between periods.

In both quarters, depreciation expense was impacted by impairments and other charges.

The swing in foreign exchange impacts improved earnings by $530 million between periods. As a reminder, most of our foreign exchange impacts stem from balance sheet translation and do not generally affect cash.

Upstream earnings, excluding special items and foreign exchange, decreased $528 million between quarters. Lower crude realizations were partially offset by lower exploration and operating expenses, as well as other unrelated positive variances.

Downstream results, excluding special items and foreign exchange, decreased by $535 million, primarily driven by lower worldwide refining margins, partially offset by lower operating expenses.

Turning now to slide 6, I'll now compare results for the second quarter of 2016 with the first quarter of 2016. Second-quarter results were $745 million lower than the first quarter. Net special items for impairments, project suspensions, and other related charges decreased earnings by $2.2 billion between periods. Foreign exchange created a positive earnings variance of nearly $600 million between periods.

Upstream results, excluding special items and foreign exchange, increased approximately $1.2 billion between quarters, primarily reflecting higher realizations, in line with our price sensitivity, as well as lower exploration and depreciation charges. Downstream earnings, excluding special items and foreign exchange, were lower by $79 million as lower operating expenses were more than offset by inventory revaluation effects. The variance in the other segment largely reflects unfavorable corporate tax items.

Jay will now review our worldwide quarterly production and provide an update on our upstream operations. Jay?

JAY JOHNSON, EVP UPSTREAM, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. I'll start with second-quarter 2016 production and then provide an update on a few of our key upstream projects.

Slide 7 compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the second-quarter 2016 and the second-quarter 2015. Net production decreased by 68,000 barrels a day between these quarters, yielding first-half 2016 production of 2.6 million barrels a day.

Shale and tight production increased by 50,000 barrels a day primarily due to growth in the Midland and Delaware Basins in the Permian, with the Marcellus, Vaca Muerta, Duvernay, and Liard Basins also reflecting year-on-year growth. Major capital projects increased production by 37,000 barrels a day as ramp-ups continue at Jack/St. Malo, Chuandongbei, and Angola LNG, and we saw initial production from Gorgon.

Disruptions due to external events accounted for the temporary shut-in of 63,000 barrels per day, which included the Partitioned Zone, security issues in Nigeria, and fires in Canada. The sale of our Michigan assets and several assets in the Gulf of Mexico shelf resulted in decreased production of 44,000 barrels a day.

The decrease of 48,000 barrels a day in the base business and other bar reflects normal field declines and higher turnaround activity, partially offset by new base business production from brownfield investments.

The chart shown on slide 8 was presented in January and outlined our production guidance and uncertainties for 2016. The cumulative impact of the uncertainties has been unfavorable, and we expect to be near the bottom of the annualized guidance we provided.

For example, we anticipated that oil production in the Partitioned Zone would be restarted by midyear, which hasn't happened. As a reminder, in the first quarter of 2015 this field produced over 75,000 barrels a day, Chevron share. We've also worked through various startup issues at Gorgon that impacted our first-half production.

We've been successful with our upstream divestment program, which is impacting our production. Transactions closed this year represent a daily production rate of just over 40,000 barrels a day, and we expect to see an additional 15,000 to 30,000 daily barrels leaving the portfolio before the end of this year.

In addition to these uncertainties, production in the third quarter will be adversely impacted by a large number of turnarounds, including the second-generation plant at Tengiz.

At the same time, our long-anticipated queue of projects is now coming online. In the second half of this year, we expect to see sustained production from Angola LNG, Gorgon Trains 1 and 2, and all three trains at Chuandongbei. We are also expecting continued growth from the Permian, which I'll talk further in a few minutes.

The overall result is that we expect to exit the year with a December production in the range of 2.65 million to 2.7 million barrels per day.

Turning to slide 9. Funding the completion of projects under construction is our first capital allocation priority. At Gorgon we are currently producing at 70% of Train 1's capacity, or approximately 90,000 barrels per day.

In early July, we took a short shutdown to address a number of issues and repair a minor leak. Production resumed mid-July, and the plant has been running smoothly since that time.

We're incorporating all the experience gained from Train 1's construction, completion, and initial operations into Trains 2 and 3. Construction on Trains 2 and 3 is progressing very well. We expect first LNG from Train 2 early in the fourth quarter and from Train 3 in the second quarter of 2017.

At Wheatstone, our outlook for first LNG remains mid-2017 for Train 1. The cleanup and testing of all nine development wells has been completed, and the rig has been released. Initial results are in line with expectations.

At the plant site, piping, electrical, and instrumentation work is currently progressing very well. We're working to maintain this progress as we begin the transition to completion, commissioning, and startup activities. Train 2 construction work is also progressing per plan, with startup expected six to eight months after Train 1.

Slide 10 shows our other 2016 startups. At Angola LNG, modifications were completed at the plant and production restarted on May 20. Since restarting the plant we've loaded four LNG and seven LPG cargoes.

The plant was tested at 75% capacity and ran smoothly prior to the planned shutdown for strainer and other maintenance activities. The modifications to the gas conditioning section operated as designed, and all other repairs are complete. We expect to achieve sustained production during the third quarter.

At Chuandongbei, Train 3 started up in late May, and all three trains have delivered at full capacity and are now operational. There have been no changes since our previous updates on Alder, Mafumeira Sul, or Bangka.

Turning to slide 11, our next capital priority is to fund high-return, short-cycle base, and shale and tight investments. First among these opportunities is the Permian, where we have a large royalty-advantaged acreage position.

We're making excellent progress in the Permian towards the growth we discussed at our Analyst Meeting in March. Production this quarter was 21% or 24,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day higher than the second quarter of last year.

Efficiency gains and a shift to more Chevron-operated rigs have more than offset the reduction in total rig count. We're delivering our plan with fewer rigs and less cost.

Turn to slide 12. As we've said before, one of our primary benchmarking metrics for our Permian assets is development cost per barrel. Since the second quarter of last year, we've reduced our unit development costs by approximately 30%.

We've been able to accelerate our performance improvements by incorporating industry-best practices and applying lessons learned from our joint ventures and contractors. As shown by the data, our development cost is competitive with our joint venture partners.

The table shows improvement in our drilling and completion cost performance from recent pad drilling programs. For 7,500-foot laterals in the Midland Basin, we're averaging $5.6 million per well, which is a 25% reduction from what we showed you at our Analyst Meeting in March.

Our recovery per well is also improving as we continue to implement learnings and optimize our lateral lengths, well completions, and drawdown strategies. Earlier this year we exceeded 2,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in a 24-hour well test on a 7,500-foot lateral well in the Greater Bryant G area. We also put our 100th Company-operated horizontal well on production and continue to gain confidence in our acreage characterization and performance.

We're taking a disciplined, measured approach to development, and we're optimizing and prioritizing the large number of available well locations. We're delivering on our objective to be a competitive operator whose royalty position provides an incremental competitive advantage, and we're consistently improving our financial performance.

Slide 13. In addition to the Permian and other large-scale short-cycle businesses, such as San Joaquin and Gulf of Thailand, we have a number of attractive major capital projects that leverage previous investments. The projects listed on this slide all take advantage of existing infrastructure, reducing development costs and cycle times. As they build upon existing developments, they also tend to carry less subsurface and execution risk. The average development cost for these projects is around $15 a barrel.

At Jack and St. Malo, we continue to ramp up production. In June, the combined production for both fields reached 110,000 barrels a day.

This was accomplished through continued high facility reliability and the startup of the eighth well. The first Stage 2 well is expected to come online next month.

Turning to slide 14. A major brownfield opportunity that we've talked about many times is the Future Growth and Wellhead Pressure Management Project in Tengiz. As we announced earlier this month, the TCO partnership sanctioned the project.

WPMP provides additional wells and pressure-boosting facilities to maintain production levels in the existing plants as reservoir pressures decline. FGP builds on the sour gas injection technology already proven in existing operations at Tengiz. It adds additional production and gas injection capacity to increase total oil production by around 260,000 barrels a day.

The project is designed to capture execution and infrastructure efficiencies and will take advantage of current market conditions. Incremental recovery is expected to be 2 billion barrels of oil equivalent.

Turning to slide 15, FGP/WPMP is estimated to cost $36.8 billion, which includes $27 billion for facilities, $3.5 billion for wells, and $6.2 billion for contingency and escalation. The development cost for the project is $18 a barrel.

Operating and transportation costs are expected to be consistent with our existing operations. TCO has secured financing to ensure uninterrupted project funding, utilizing a combination of bank loans, co-lending and bonds. Demand for the first tranche of the bond offering was strong, and the bonds were placed at an attractive interest rate.

Go to slide 16. As I've discussed, we're committed to improving our project execution performance across the enterprise. I've used this slide previously to describe the actions we are taking on the projects in order to deliver strong execution performance and mitigate the amount of contingency consumed. We're confident these actions will improve our ability to deliver this project predictably and reliably, and I'll update you on a few examples.

Engineering is currently greater than 50% complete, well ahead of industry practice of 25% or less at FID. Having a more advanced engineering design provides a better understanding of the quantity and quality of materials, equipment, and labor required to execute the project and reduces the likelihood of out-of-sequence work and construction delays due to engineering issues. The project team and principal contractor have been integrated into one team, with fewer layers of management, lower cost and more effective leadership.

Turning to slide 17. We're pleased to see this project enter execution and are excited about the value the project brings to Kazakhstan, TCO, and our shareholders. Tengiz is a world-class reservoir and FGP/WPMP provides the foundation for the continued economic development of the field.

The project utilizes technology already proven at Tengiz. It addresses declining reservoir pressure and enhances recovery from the reservoir.

This countercyclical investment takes advantage of the current market in terms of cost savings, fabrication capacity, and contractor capabilities. Project economics are attractive within the current concession life and include 20% contingency.

The project provides additional upside opportunities including future infill drilling, facility debottlenecking, increased oil production from existing plants, as well as additional enhanced recovery projects. A concession extension or utilizing less contingency would also provide additional benefits. Tengiz has been an excellent asset for Chevron, and this investment will allow Tengiz to continue to generate value into the future.

I'll now hand back to Pat to discuss our progress on spend reductions.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Now turning to slide 18, we are delivering on our committed spend reductions. You'll note the steep reduction in quarterly C&E average over the past three years. Year-to-date capital expenditures are down 31% when compared with 2015.

We're on a trend line for 2016 C&E of $25 billion or less. For 2017, 2018, we anticipate capital expenditures between $17 billion and $22 billion. If the current price environment persists, we will revisit the bottom end of the range, as our primary goal is to be cash balanced.

Year-to-date operating expense is also down, down 8% when compared to 2015. And we expect a downward quarterly trend to continue in the second half of this year, as we realize the full-year run rate of organizational actions and supply chain initiatives.

Turning to slide 19, just a quick update on our asset sales program. Over the last 10 years on average we have received proceeds from asset sales of $2.9 billion per year. With the sale of our interest in Caltex Australia, 2015 was the highest dollar transaction year.

Year-to-date, we have received proceeds of $1.4 billion covering several transactions: New Zealand marketing, Canadian gas storage assets, pipeline assets in California, and upstream assets in the Gulf of Mexico. We have a number of potential transactions presently being worked.

The larger, publicly known transactions are noted on the slide. There are a few attributes that these transactions have in common: the assets are not essential to delivering on our strategy, their valuations are not particularly oil price-sensitive, and there are multiple interested buyers.

We believe our sales program is executable and that we can secure good value. We have confidence in achieving our $5 billion to $10 billion target for total proceeds over this year and next. And as I said last quarter, we have line of sight on around $2 billion for 2016.

I'd like to close the presentation here on slide 20 by reiterating a few key points. We remain committed to becoming cash balanced in 2017. Our projects are coming online, and we're making huge strides in lowering our cost structure and getting our capital outflows down.

We're on track with our asset sales program. We see those as back-end loaded, with more occurring in 2017 than this year.

They're eminently doable. We believe they are a realistic part of our cash balancing program.

Looking out the next 12 to 24 months, our profile is just as we have long said it would be: strong volume growth and cash flow margin accretion at the same time. That's a powerful combination, offering tremendous value growth for our shareholders.

Our financial priorities remain unchanged. We're committed to growing the dividend as earnings and cash flow permit. We recognize the value our shareholders place on dividends and the value they place on our long history of annual dividend payment increases.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We're now ready to take some questions. Please do keep in mind that we have a full queue, so try to limit yourself to one question and perhaps one follow-up, if necessary. We'll do our best to get everyone's questions answered.

Jonathan, can you please open the lines?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey. Good morning. Thanks for all the color in the slide deck today. My two quick questions are going back to the Analyst Day and then tying it to what you said today.

The first one would just be on the production growth outlook, looking out to 2017 in the fuzzy bar chart. At the time, at the Analyst Day, you had mentioned that the 2.9 to 3.0 target generally still held at that point in time. Obviously, there's been a lot of transitory items this year, and then there are some asset sales.

I'm just wondering if you could give us a little bit of an update as you look ahead to 2017, either on the number itself or some of the moving pieces we should think about with respect to that number.

JAY JOHNSON: I think as we look forward at the production, the thing that's coming through are the major capital projects. As they start up and we're seeing good performance out of those, I think that part of our performance is very strong, as is the growth coming from assets like the Permian and our other base business.

Actually our base decline rates have been very good. We will see potentially some decline. We're expecting to go maybe from 2 into the 2 to 4 range because of the cutbacks in capital. But we still see pretty good performance from all of our base assets.

The asset sales program, we'll give some further updates when we get to the SAM meeting on where we stand there. Some of those were already baked into that forecast.

And of course, as we move forward and build a business plan this year, a lot of it's going to be responsive to the environment that we find ourselves in as we move forward. I think a key thing is that these new barrels coming online from Permian and from these major capital projects are accretive to our existing portfolio, and so we expect to see strong cash generation as we move forward.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. Then my follow-up is just on the Permian. At the Analyst Day, you had talked about a potential doubling of the capital budget to meet this strong growth profile through 2020. It sounds like the costs are coming in very well.

So maybe just talk about how you think about growth versus capital preservation. If you can do more with less, would you focus on reducing the capital? Or would you try and actually increase this production target over time?

JAY JOHNSON: We'll give further updates on our production targets I think at the SAM meeting. But what I would say in the meantime is we continue to want to grow our Permian business, so we are adding an additional rig in August. We expect to have a total of four additional rigs; that's going from six currently to 10 rigs by the end of this year in the Permian.

And we'd expect to see good performance coming from those rigs. One of the things we've tried to do is take a measured pace so that we preserve the productivity and the capital efficiency that we've been able to capture so far.

We want to make sure we do that as we ramp up. We feel quite confident we can do so.

PHIL GRESH: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Hi, good morning, everyone. I think I've got the longest question I've ever asked here, which is: the Kazak concession expires in 2032. Is that correct?

JAY JOHNSON: 2033.

PAUL SANKEY: 2033. Is that included in your economic assumptions as an endpoint for the -- I know it's kind of crazy, but obviously if you're investing for startup in 2022, 10 years, 11 years is not that much later in terms of the scale of the project. Are the economics that you've run assuming that the concession goes away?

JAY JOHNSON: We base all of our economics and decision-making on the actual end-of-life of the concession. But obviously, there's considerable upside I think both for the country and for the companies if we continue to progress the concession with an extension.

PAUL SANKEY: Got it; thank you, Jay. Nearer term, were there any special items that we should consider in the cash flow -- I asked a similar question to Exxon -- that makes this an unrepresentative quarter? Because obviously the cash balances right now are not even covering the dividend. Is there anything special?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, I'd mention two things. I mentioned them in the official comments.

One is working capital and the other is deferred tax. On a year-to-date basis, both of them are worth about $2 billion each.

From a working capital standpoint, I indicated that we expect a portion of that will reverse this year. The deferred tax impacts will also reverse; and you need to think about these as tax loss carrybacks or tax loss carryforwards.

Across the world it depends on specific circumstances and specific jurisdictions. But in either case we can take these back against prior income or we can carry them forward against future income.

So in our case, I know for example we will be filing for amended tax returns in 2017. The point is that those negatives -- both on working capital and deferred tax are negatives right now, but they become positives in the future.

When you think about this impact -- it's pretty significant on a year-to-date basis. Again $4 billion across the two of those. When you take that into account and you think about Gorgon and Wheatstone coming online and the $2 dollar a barrel margin accretion that we gave you over the whole portfolio, our outlook on cash flow generation going forward is quite positive.

PAUL SANKEY: I'm sorry. Could I just ask a quick follow-up? Sorry. This working capital effect, isn't that from prices going up during the quarter? So wouldn't it -- why would it reverse if prices went further up from here?

PAT YARRINGTON: I mean a part of it is inventory. Part of it in this particular time just happened to be cargo timing on receivables versus payables.

So we've analyzed it to quite an extent and we're pretty comfortable saying somewhere in the neighborhood of at least half of it will go down between now and the end of the year. We obviously are being impacted by lower activity and then just changes in prices and cost structures.

PAUL SANKEY: Thanks, Pat.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, guys; good morning. Jay, two questions in here. First, Gorgon Train 2 and 3, previously I think the expectation is that may be a little bit sooner; Train 2 will be maybe the third quarter and Train 3 will be the first quarter of 2017. And also I think that historically you guys are suggesting three to six months of the startup period or the ramp-up period; now talking about six to eight months.

Is that being just conservative on your part, or that there is something fundamentally when you're looking at the LNG business, leads you to believe that the ramp-up period and everything, that may just take a bit longer than historically has been?

JAY JOHNSON: Paul, a couple things. We've always said that our expectation is that Trains 2 and 3 would start up at roughly six-month intervals, and we're pretty much still on that plan. We started up the first train in March, so we're projecting early in the fourth quarter for Train 2; and then Train 3 will follow along behind. So there's latitude in those quarters.

We are seeing very good construction progress on 2 and 3. And importantly, all the lessons, as I said, that we've learned not only during the construction time but in the design and all the modifications we've had to make as we started up Train 1, all that's been built into Train 2, as well as the actual hours to complete these projects.

So we feel very encouraged by the results we're seeing. We're happy with the construction progress. We're well into commissioning of Train 2, so there it's pretty much as we expected.

As far as the ramp-up, our view has been six to eight months. We based that looking at LNG projects around the world; that's a normal ramp-up period.

As I've said before, it's not so much that you're on this smooth curve from startup to full capacity, but as you start up one of these plants there are issues that have to be dealt with. So you have periods of downtime as you go down to make modifications or fix some of the equipment that you have difficulty with on startup -- tuning loops, things like that. So it's really a function of the downtime and the overall effect is a curve as you approach 100% capacity.

So we still expect that six - to eight-month kind of a ramp-up period. But again with 2 and 3 and the benefit of the experiences we're gaining on Train 1 -- they are identical designs -- it gives us a little bit of a head start in terms of that ramp-up for the second two trains.

PAUL CHENG: Second question on Tengiz Future Growth Project. Maybe I'm wrong, but my current assumption is that if I have, say, $10 on the transportation costs and 5% is discount on the price realization to Brent price, and assume an 18% royalty and 30% income tax, it looked like even at $80 Brent I only get maybe less than 10% internal rate of return for the full project.

Just want to see whether you can comment on that. Whether that -- internally that you guys are looking for a much better return. And if it's $80, why will you sanction the projects?

JAY JOHNSON: I think our economics are little bit different than yours, Paul. I can't get into details of the fiscal terms that we work under with the contract, but we do see a better rate than what you are seeing.

The transportation costs are quite good with CPC. Of course, with FGP some portion of the throughput would have to go by rail; but it's going to be within the envelope of what we've already moved by rail prior to the expansion at CPC. So we're quite comfortable with that.

When we look at FGP overall, I think there's a couple things in terms of the economics. We have a very good understanding of this reservoir. It's largely been de-risked.

We've been operating it for 23 years. We have a very strong operating organization and maintenance organization there that's given us very high reliability.

So between the good reservoir models and our understanding of that reservoir, as well as the operation and reliability we get from the facilities, this is a very good project for us in terms of the of scale and the amount of capacity it adds.

We also see that the market conditions right now are favorable, and the project is ready for execution. As we've talked about, the engineering is well advanced, over 50%; the procurement is 67%. We have a very good understanding of what it's going to take to execute this project, and we've got a lot of the infrastructure already in place because effectively this builds on the infrastructure that's already in Tengiz. So we see it as a relatively low-risk project from all those factors.

In terms of the opportunities, though, we see a lot of upside opportunity. We've done a great job in the past at Tengiz, and we've really got a proven track record of extracting incremental value out of the infrastructure once it's installed.

If you look at SGP, for example, the second-generation plant that started up in 2008, this really tested the new technology that's being used at FGP. Since startup we've been able to increase the capacity of that facility by 22% over nameplate, which gives us a lot of incremental capacity.

FGP is actually simpler in terms of the processing facilities than SGP, and we would expect to see similar types of upside opportunity. There is also upside when you look at the infill drilling that FGP puts in place.

And FGP carries incrementally large gas handling capacity, more than what's required right now. So as the reservoir pressures continue to decline, not only does it help stabilize the platform, but we take that additional gas handling capacity and use it on existing facilities today and help handle that increase in gas/oil ratio into the future. So there's a lot of upside benefits that are yet to come.

Of course, when we talked about the opportunity for contract extensions, we feel this is good for the country as well as ourselves.

Now there's other assessments out there like Wood Mac; many of you may have seen it. There's a number of areas where we see some differences in our view and their view. As I said, we have a very well-matched, accurate reservoir model, history match model. We have a faster ramp-up on the project after completion.

We also have a faster decline on the reservoir if we weren't doing the project than what Wood Mac is counting on. Both of those would drive value into the project.

Finally, Wood Mac has almost twice as many wells in their forecast than we carry in our development plan. So those are some key differences I would point out as well as some of the upside potential we see with this project.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning, everybody. I wonder if I could ask one for Pat and one Jay? Pat, I'm not quite sure how to ask this one, but it's a follow-up to Paul's question about deferred tax. One of your competitors, ConocoPhillips, gave some sensitivities about what the impact of deferred tax is. It's quite meaningful. And they say on earnings every $10 is like $1.5 billion on cash flow; however, up to a certain level like $60 oil, it's about $2.5 billion for every $10.

I'm guessing it's the same kind of thing you're getting at. Wondering if you could give some sensitivities around just exactly that issue, because obviously the deferred tax credit back could be quite material.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, Doug; it's a great question. I'm not prepared here to give you a sensitivity around it. It is one of the primary areas of exploration, I would say, as we go through our business planning cycle here over the next couple of months.

It's a critical element for us to understand, jurisdiction by jurisdiction, what the sensitivity is over a variety of price levels. So it's something I don't have today, but it's something we are investigating and in the future we'll be in a better place once we put this current business plan together to be able to address that question.

DOUG LEGGATE: My guess -- this is an observation, Pat. My guess is, including myself, a lot of folks are scrambling to understand that. Because I think it could be a big delta on folks' expectations of your future cash flow.

My follow-up is really for Jay. I don't know to what extent you can answer this, Jay, but my understanding is John was recently in New York over the last several months and was talking about the longer-term spending restrictions, if you like, or the level at which he expects to see, beyond your current five-year planning horizon. And more importantly, indicated that the unconventional portfolio could really become a very large part, like 25% of the Company, by the middle of the next decade.

I'm just wondering if you can frame that in terms of implications for additional long-cycle projects and whether my understanding of that is accurate.

JAY JOHNSON: Well, I think John's comments about unconventional becoming a larger and larger part of our Company are valid. We gave you a capital range of $17 billion to $22 billion for next year. We have both TCO and expansion of our unconventional built into that number already.

We're actually getting very granular in our planning of capital allocation across all the assets in the Company and making sure that the capital is flowing to where we expect to get the highest return. Unconventional, with the derisking that we've been able to do, particularly in the Permian, and then the way we're using best practice in one field to spread to all the others we have -- the Marcellus, the Permian, the Duvernay, Vaca Muerta -- is really showing benefits right across our unconventional portfolio and we're quite excited about the role this is going to play going forward.

As for the large major capital projects, we will still have some; that's an important part of our portfolio. But we're going to take a measured approach to these. We're only going to be approving the ones that represent the best value for us, and it's going to be in balance with the other opportunities we have as we maintain a very disciplined capital program going forward.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks. To be clear, Jay, just a point of clarification, that 25% number is globally right, but it's a global number, not a US number?

JAY JOHNSON: Yes.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great. Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, SCOTIA HOWARD WEIL: Folks, good morning. Jay, I realize you went through the execution readiness on Tengiz. I guess my question is really around the potential for that $6.2 billion of contingency to maybe not even come in at that level. I realize you're pretty well along on several fronts; but is there an opportunity to lock in costs at this point?

I guess I'm just trying to understand. Is there a potential to mitigate the risk of that $6.2 billion coming to fruition?

JAY JOHNSON: Absolutely there is a chance to mitigate the risk. What we've really tried to do is both be reasonable and as practical -- realistic, I should say -- in our view of what contingency is required on these very large projects. This is based on our past, but also the industry experience in executing these projects.

But then what we've tried to do is take our experiences on other very large projects like Gorgon and Wheatstone as well as projects we've done in Tengiz and build those in. We've looked ahead and said: These are the areas that cause us difficulty on these projects. And we've tried to mitigate each one of those.

I won't go through them in detail again. They are in the slides. I've talked about them before.

But engineering represents one of the biggest challenges, and our work to advance the engineering before FID, but also advance the engineering before we start the execution. Before we cut the first steel for any of the fabrication, our models will be complete at the 90% point, and design assurance verified before we start any of the actual fabrication work on facilities.

We've done a tremendous amount of work on the design assurance reviews, and we're working to make sure the procurement is advanced so that when we start the execution in the field we know that we'll be able to move through that execution smoothly and in sequence. We think all of these brought together along with our experience in Kazakhstan is going to help us really stay focused on mitigating any use of that contingency.

Contingency is expected to be used. What we're trying to do is reduce the risk and uncertainty so that we can minimize how much of it we do have to use.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Got it. I'll leave it there. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, good morning. I guess first question just around CapEx and OpEx. You've been making some good progress, and you've got these downward arrows suggesting that in the second half of the year we'll still see further progress.

I'm just wondering, maybe just give us an update as perhaps where OpEx and SG&A -- where the new bottom of that cost structure could get to.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I think on the capital side we've given you everything that we anticipate at this point in time. Right now we're sitting at the midway part of the year, trending on a $25 billion sort of range.

We think that's where we could end; possibly a little bit lower than that. We're actually trending on $24 billion at the six-month mark, $24 billion may be where we end the year.

So somewhere between $24 billion and $25 billion I think is the appropriate level for you to think about. And then in terms of 2017 and 2018, we've given you the range there of the $17 billion to $22 billion; but obviously, we need to be market-responsive and so right now we're thinking it's towards the lower end of that range, and if in fact the market doesn't move prices anywhere off of where they are today we'll probably be lower than that or certainly at the very low end of that range.

So that's as much guidance as I can give you on capital at the moment. We're rolling up the business plans, and we'll have more to say as we get towards the end of the year.

On operating expense, our target really -- we came down on operating expense $2 billion between 2014 and 2015, and our target is to come down another $2 billion between 2015 and 2016. We have a number of organizational impacts that have occurred through the first half of this year, but there will be more that will come in the second half of this year.

We also continue to work through the supply chain. We've got another set of targets internally for continued effort to reduce cost through the supply chain.

ED WESTLAKE: Then a question for Jay. One of the criticisms, I guess, of the majors which you have addressed in slide 12 on the Permian is the relative costs and EURs. You have, I think last year at the Analyst Day or this year, it was 7.1 million and now you're talking about some of the average wells in some of the plays being 5.6 million. And your EURs I think at the Analyst Day were, I guess, 960 in the Delaware and 850 in the Midland; but obviously, the purer-plays who've been able to, I guess, get out on the front foot in terms of press releases, are doing a lot of work with completion technology to boost EUR.

So maybe just give us some color as to how you see your competitive positioning relative to, I guess, a lot of people who are just the other side of the gate and even in some of the same wells as you.

JAY JOHNSON: I think we are now fully competitive with these other players. We may not be flashy, but we're steady.

We have taken all these learnings in. We've been very methodical in our approach and very systematic.

Our goal, as I said before, is to be fully competitive on an operating basis so that when you add in the advantaged royalty position it gives us a clear incremental value proposition over competitors. We'll continue to stay focused on this. And as I said, we're ramping up the number of Company-operated rigs, but we're going to do so in a manner that allows us to maintain those efficiencies.

The one other thing I'd say is that our current view is that we're building infrastructure into some of these initial development projects. As that infrastructure comes into play it provides a solid foundation for us to continue to incrementally improve economics as we move forward.

ED WESTLAKE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, Evercore ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning, everybody. Pat, a few of your competitors recently committed to new capital management plans and performance metrics by which they plan to be held accountable in the future. And on this point, you guys have had a pathway to improve returns in your materials for a few quarters now, and you've clearly made progress on the cost side, based on today's results. I think it was slide 18 or so.

So, my question is, if oil prices and financial performance recover in 2016 and 2017, can you envision a scenario whereby your financial priorities might shift for an intermediate-term period? Let's say return of capital to shareholders having greater priority than spending, for instance.

Or do you feel that between the cyclical timing, and the low cost that we have today, and the quality of your portfolio, that higher spending would almost surely be in the best interest of shareholders? So the question is about how you weigh these different financial options in a recovery scenario.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, Doug, we have had the same financial priorities for a long period of time. Dividend return to shareholders being first, and then re-investments in the business second, and then having a prudent financial structure being third. I don't see those priorities changing going forward.

We're going to obviously work to balance those priorities under the circumstances that are presented to us.

DOUG TERRESON: Sure.

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't see that there is significant C&E increases coming for us. I think we're going to increase our dividend when cash flow permits it; we're going to make the investment profile that we've talked about, where we're moving to shorter-cycle, higher-return projects and not as many of the long duration of return, lower-return projects. FGP/WPMP is the only significant project that we have taken to FID.

We do see additional major capital projects in our future, but they are not going to come with the same pace that we have had most recently here. We want to be much more ratable and predictable in our capital program. And we are going to have to take some of the cash that we're generating in the future and use it to restore our balance sheet.

DOUG TERRESON: Sure. Thanks for the clarity and the update.

OPERATOR: Neil Mehta, Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hey, good morning, guys. Just wanting to get an update on two areas of disrupted production. First is the Neutral Zone and the second is Nigeria, recognizing the latter could have some sensitivities. What update can you provide on the return to production?

JAY JOHNSON: In the Partitioned Zone, this is really an issue between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. They continue to engage to work this forward.

Our view is that we would like to see a return to production; that's what we advocate. But in the meantime what we've done are two things.

We've tried to bring all the preservation work and maintain the field in a state of readiness so it can be restarted. We've also done quite a bit of work to understand and use the opportunity with our technical people to model the entire field and look for efficiencies that we can build into this field when it restarts, and we've been quite successful in some of the planning that we have for the restart.

We've also been bringing our cost structures down, and there will be more of that to come if this continues forward.

In terms of Nigeria, this is an area where we've operated for a long time. There are some issues there. The government is working these issues.

Our priority is on protecting people and making sure that we protect our operations. But I really won't say too much more about it, other than this is an issue that continues to be addressed by the government.

NEIL MEHTA: If I can ask a quick follow-up here, Pat, on your comments on return of capital. For the last two to three decades you've raised the dividend every year. Are you still on track to do that in 2016? And just if you can comment on the broader strategy around dividend growth.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. What I can say is that we are fully aware of the 28-year annual dividend payment increase. We are also fully aware that an increase needs to occur in 2016 if we are to keep that pattern alive.

The Board fully understands the value of the dividend increase, and they understand the value of growing the dividend over time. So the Board will be looking at cash generation and our ability, from a sustainable sense, to support a higher dividend going forward.

I guess I would just reiterate, we do see our cash flow circumstance improving over time. We've got the confidence in our future growth in production. We've got confidence in our future cash generation.

I'll take you back to the $2 per barrel margin increase that we showed at the Security Analyst Day on the portfolio. Assuming flat commodity prices, that's the margin accretion that we get out of these LNG projects predominantly. It raises the cash margin on the entire portfolio.

We also believe that we can compete very successfully and sustainably over time here with a much lower capital program, because we've got assets, for example, like the Permian and other unconventionals. So we feel very comfortable about what our future holds.

NEIL MEHTA: Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good afternoon, everybody. Yes, Jay, maybe a follow-up on Paul's prior question on Tengiz. It really gets to this concern that it's a lower-return project, given future lease expiry or otherwise.

Not really asking for confidential terms, but can you share any expected project return on sanction, or how it compared to other projects while gating in the portfolio, even maybe by tier?

JAY JOHNSON: I can't really get into divulging our economics and our view of it, other than to say we have been very disciplined in our capital. We're putting that capital where we believe it's going to give us a good return.

We look at a lot of things when we consider the performance of a project, and part of it is the risk we're taking on as well as the potential for additional upside to be gained. I talked about those earlier.

Ultimately, the economic value of this project will be a function of the prices realized over the period of time between now and the end of the concession. But we're taking a lot of steps to make sure that we're building as much value into this as we can. We see it as an attractive project.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Maybe just a brief follow-up if I could. What is the percentage of total project financing targeted here? Just to help better understand what the future cash flow, at least out the door, looked like.

JAY JOHNSON: Well, the financing is really in place as an assist. The entire project is not being funded by the financing.

We have a combination of co-lending, we have a bank facility, and we have the bond issuance. So that combination, coupled with the cash generation of TCO, which is actually quite strong, should provide sufficient funding for the project as well as ongoing value to the shareholders.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Appreciate it, guys.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great; thanks. Maybe one follow-up on the Permian. You have a chart there on the slides, which I think is -- again relative to the Analyst Day presentation -- showing the multiyear outlook for growth in the Permian. If you think about the assumptions that are in that chart, both in terms of activity levels and well performance, how would you say that things are trending in the basin right now relative to your assumptions there? In terms -- are the wells performing better than assumed in the base case there? Activity levels similar?

And where would the bias be? Is there an upwards or downward bias do you think for that multiyear outlook?

JAY JOHNSON: Yes. You can see the red line shows where we actually are relative to that view, and we're on plan with the initial growth there. As we said, we saw about a -- over a 20% growth in the Permian relative to last year.

Now that's done even with less rigs. We're running about the same number of rigs we expected on the Company side. Our non-operated rigs are actually less; but we're actually accomplishing our objectives with fewer rigs.

We're going to be going from six rigs to 10 rigs by the end of this year, so we're staffing up and ramping up our activity level. I would say the bias on this is upwards going forward.

RYAN TODD: Great, thanks. Then maybe if I could switch gears to the Gulf of Mexico, you've had a number of different projects in various stages of appraisal or development there. Any thoughts on how those resources are shaking up? Where the Gulf of Mexico -- how you see those types of projects stacking up potentially within your portfolio going forward?

And maybe one specific one: one of your partners that was in the joint development project I think for Tiber, Guadalupe, Gibson, and those, recently impaired leases at those fields. Is that project still on plan going forward? Or is that one that you guys may be walking away from?

JAY JOHNSON: I think of the projects in two categories. We've got an existing set of deepwater projects that are already in operation in the Gulf of Mexico, and they are very profitable. And more than that, they provide a good platform for additional investment, as we talked about earlier in the presentation.

Going forward, the key really is getting our development cost down and we're very focused on doing that in a couple of ways. Our deepwater drilling has improved fairly substantially. If you look at just in the last year or so, we've seen 30% faster drilling rates in the deepwater. And with the cost of rigs, that has a big impact.

As we move forward, we expect to see our rig cost go down as well as the rates of drilling progress go up. We're also looking at the facilities and getting them rightsized. What I mean by that is rather than chasing for peak production, for example, we may go with smaller facilities, have a longer plateau of production, higher capital efficiencies.

So as we look at driving the cost per barrel, the development cost down, I think that's what's going to be required for new projects to be competitive with other opportunities in our portfolio.

Once these projects are on, they have relatively low operating cost. We get good margins out of them. It's just the time between the initial exploration program and development wells and ultimately the production that burdens these projects from an overall financial return standpoint.

In terms of the Tiber that you asked about, this project is still under assessment. I really don't want to comment too much further, but we're evaluating it. There may be some additional appraisal work to do, and then we'll be putting that against some of the other opportunities that we have.

We do think the deepwater represents a good resource base, and it is important for meeting global demand in the future. So we think production from this area will continue.

But, as I said, our focus is on driving those development costs down so that these projects are competitive with other opportunities in the portfolio.

RYAN TODD: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Roger Read, Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Yes, thanks; good morning. I guess just a quick follow-up on the CapEx side. It looked like you're going to underspend this year potentially -- at least on track for it. You think about the guidance of $17 billion to $22 billion over the next couple of years, should we think about the benefits this year are something that are transitory or something that are looking a little more permanent? And then maybe you either get more for $17 billion to $22 billion, or you can potentially underspend $17 billion to $22 billion, as we think about the next three years?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, Roger. I think one of the primary drivers in moving from the 2016 circumstance to 2017 and beyond is the trailing off of these projects under construction. Just the LNG projects, Gorgon and Wheatstone, for example, is a significant reason behind the drop-off in the capital spending between the years.

But also going forward, as we've talked about the portfolio shift that we have, where we have a lot more of our future investment coming forward in the shorter-cycle, Permian-based activity as opposed to the long-cycle and large-duration major capital projects, that's really what drives the change in the absolute level of spending.

We've made a commitment as well. There is an affordability component here. We've made a commitment as well to get cash balanced in 2017.

And because of the opportunity that we've got both in the brownfield extensions as well as in the Permian unconventional-like activity, we believe we've got a very competitive capital program at a $17 billion range. So I think of it as being a sustainable capital level under prices that we have today.

ROGER READ: Right. No, I understood sustainability; I was more just trying to understand -- is the fact that you're tracking under the $25 billion due, I guess, more to the large projects that do come to an end? Or are you seeing an actual improvement in underlying spending, service costs, equipment costs, whatever they are?

Trying to think about it. Is $17 billion to $22 billion, should it really be maybe $15.5 billion to, say, $20 billion or something like that? On an apples-to-apples comparison.

JAY JOHNSON: Yes, building on what Pat said, I think there's a lot of things that drive capital spending. It can be everything from our current price environment to foreign exchange rates.

But what we've really focused on in the near term have been two things. One is driving down the pricing from our vendors and contractors; that's probably more transitory. But we've also been very focused on building efficiency in how we conduct our operations. And we've talked about that in previous calls and at the SAM meeting.

That work continues across the business. And as we drive more and more efficiency into our spend, we own that. We'll be able to retain that going forward.

I think the other big area for us is improving the execution of projects. It's partly doing things better internally, and I've talked about what those things are. They are on that slide.

But it's also taking advantage of market conditions like we're in now, where we can get the best yards working on our projects. We're not competing for yard resources and contractor capabilities. We can get the A-team on these projects, and that really helps us execute better. And that's sustainable through this period.

ROGER READ: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Brad Heffern, RBC Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFERN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, everyone. I know we're past the top of the hour, so I'll keep it short. I was just curious on the impairment commentary in the prepared remarks. I think weaker reservoir performance was mentioned.

Obviously, we're all used to seeing price-related impairments at this point. But I was curious if you could put a finer point on what assets that related to. Is it all legacy stuff, or is it anything from major projects over the past few years?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, I mean there were multiple assets involved, but the largest single contributor here was Papa Terra in Brazil.

JAY JOHNSON: Yes. Papa Terra is one where we've been disappointed in the performance of this asset. We have gone ahead and seconded a number of our Chevron people into the operator's team. We're working with the operator to determine not only what is happening with the reservoir but also where we go from here.

So we'll give you more update at some point in the future, but at this point in time, it's largely around Papa Terra and the performance.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay. I'll leave it there. Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. I think that wraps us up for the conference call here for the second quarter. I appreciate everybody's interest in Chevron and appreciate your questions in particular. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's second-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Upstream Operations | iioil : Integrated Oil/Gas
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160730ec7t008st
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  Chevron  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,827 words
   PD
29 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.

   TD
I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

PAT YARRINGTON, VICE PRESIDENT AND CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Joe Geagea, Executive Vice President of Technology, Projects and Services. Many of you know Joe, but for those of you who don't, I thought it would be useful to highlight that he leads our technology, procurement and project functions. He also oversees our centers of excellence for upstream, including drilling. Also joining me on the call is Frank Mount, General Manager of Investor Relations.

We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide two.

I will begin with key messages from our March 2016 security analyst meeting followed by a recap of our first-quarter 2016 financial results. Joe will provide some color around our spend reduction initiatives and discuss recent updates on key projects prior to my concluding remarks.

Turning now to slide three, our analyst day was about seven weeks ago now and I thought it would be worthwhile to reiterate the primary messages from that series of sessions. Preserving and growing the dividend is our first priority. Our intention is to be able to cover the dividend in 2017.

Our capital spend profile is coming down. We are completing major capital projects already under construction but otherwise reducing long-cycle spend. We are lowering our cost structure to better match a low price environment by improving efficiencies, streamlining the organization and working with suppliers to achieve cost reductions.

At the same time, we expect our cash inflows to be growing. Production increases will occur as we bring on and ramp-up projects. While volume growth is sensitive to any number of unknowns such as prices, divestments, ramp-up profiles, we anticipate volume growth through the end of the decade using reasonable estimates for these and other uncertainties.

The cash generation of the new assets coming online is substantial to the point where these production adds are expected to raise the overall cash margin per barrel of the entire portfolio even absent any increase in price.

This year we plan to use some of our borrowing capacity to complete projects. We have one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry and we believe we can come through the lows of this price cycle with long-term financial strength intact. Our investment will shift to a higher proportion of short-cycle projects. Not only are many of these brownfield opportunities, but they will give us greater capital flexibility going forward to help limit further debt increases.

Finally, we are focused on improving financial returns, reducing pre-productive capital, moving towards more short-cycle higher return investments, lowering our cost structure and improving execution on major capital projects.

Turning to slide four, an overview of our financial performance. The Company's first-quarter loss was $725 million or a negative $0.39 per diluted share. Excluding foreign exchange and special items, as detailed in an appendix slide, the loss for the quarter totaled $211 million or a negative $0.11 per share. Cash from operations for the quarter was $1.1 billion and our debt ratio at quarter end was 22%. Our net debt ratio was 18%.

During the first quarter we paid $2 billion in dividends, earlier in the week, we announced a dividend of $1.07 per share payable to stockholders of record as of May 19th. We currently yield 4.2%.

Turning to slide five, cash generated from operations was $1.1 billion during the first quarter. Obviously, upstream cash generation has been heavily penalized by low commodity prices. Downstream continues to generate strong cash flow, although seasonal patterns are evident.

During the quarter, operating cash flow reflected about $1 billion of working capital requirements as well as certain pension contributions. In addition, affiliate dividends were modest in the quarter, a pattern that is clearly price-related. We expect cash generation to improve going forward as our costs come down and as prices move up.

Cash capital expenditures were $5.6 billion, a decrease of approximately 27% from first-quarter 2015. At quarter end, our cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $8.9 billion and our net debt position was about $33 billion.

Turning to slide six. Slide six compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year. First-quarter 2016 results were $3.3 billion lower than first-quarter 2015 results. About half of this quarter-on-quarter decline was in special items and foreign exchange. Overall, special items accounted for a negative variance between quarters of $755 million, the bulk of which related to last year's recognition of both asset sale gains and the favorable impact of changes in UK petroleum tax regulations.

A swing in foreign exchange impacts decreased earnings by $900 million between periods. As a reminder, most of our foreign exchange impacts stem from balance sheet translations and do not generally affect cash.

Excluding special items and foreign exchange, upstream earnings decreased approximately $1.6 billion between quarters. Lower crude realizations were partially offset by higher sales volumes and lower operating and exploration expenses. The realization change was in line with our sensitivity of $350 million per dollar change in Brent.

Downstream results, excluding special items and foreign exchange, decreased by approximately $475 million primarily driven by lower worldwide refining margins. The variance in the other segment was primarily from lower corporate tax items.

Turning to slide seven. I will now compare results for the first-quarter 2016 with the fourth-quarter 2015. First-quarter results were $137 million lower than fourth quarter. A swing in special items, mainly the absence of fourth quarter's impairment and project suspension charges, increased earnings by $930 million. Foreign exchange impacts went the other way, decreasing earnings by $365 million between periods.

Upstream results, excluding special items and foreign exchange, decreased by approximately $750 million between quarters primarily reflecting lower realizations again in line with our sensitivity.

Downstream earnings excluding special items and foreign exchange were lower by $163 million. Weaker refining margins were partially offset by stronger trading results, lower operating expenses and the absence of year-end inventory charges from a draw into higher cost prior-year layers. The variance in the other segment largely reflects lower corporate charges.

Slide eight compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the first quarter of 2016 and the fourth quarter of 2015. Net production decreased by 7,000 barrels per day between quarters. Major capital project ramp-ups, primarily at Gorgon in Australia, Chuandongbei in China, and Lianzi and Moho Nord in West Africa increased production by 11,000 barrels per day. The absence of planned and unplanned downtime, mainly at Tengiz in Kazakhstan, increased production by 25,000 barrels per day between periods.

Shale and tight production declined 5,000 barrels a day between quarters as external constraints such as weather impacts and downtime at a third-party processing facility impacted the Permian. Price and cost recovery effects associated with production sharing and variable royalty contracts decreased production by 18,000 barrels per day between quarters as lower crude prices were more than offset by the impact from lower spend on cost recovery.

The remaining variance in the base business and other bar primarily reflects natural field declines and other adjustments. All this said, first-quarter volumes are up about 2% from full-year 2015 production. This is right in the middle of the guidance range we provided in January and reaffirmed in March. We still believe this guidance is appropriate.

Slide nine compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the first quarter of 2016 and the first quarter of 2015. Net production decreased by 15,000 barrels per day between quarters. Major capital projects increased production by 38,000 barrels per day primarily due to production ramp-ups from the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Bangladesh and West Africa, in addition to start-ups at Gorgon in Australia and Chuandongbei in China.

Shale and tight production increased by 37,000 barrels per day due to the growth in the Permian and Marcellus in the US and the Liard and Duvernay basins in Canada. Volumes associated with production sharing and variable royalty contracts increased production by 16,000 barrels per day as the positive impact from lower crude prices was partially offset by the impact of lower spending on cost recovery.

The shut-in of operations in the Partition Zone decreased production by approximately 76,000 barrels per day. The decrease of 30,000 barrels per day in the "Base Business andOther" bar primarily reflects normal field declines and higher downtime activity partially offset by production from new wells and favorable impact from reduced external constraints.

Turning now to slide 10, we are making good progress at reducing our spend. These charts use a rolling four-quarter average to illustrate capital and operating expense reductions. When comparing the rolling four-quarter average of first-quarter 2016 to the same period of the prior year, capital outlays are down 19%.

In December, we announced a C&E program of $26.6 billion for the year, but as we noted in March, we are now targeting closer to $25 billion for the year. As we continue to finish major capital projects under construction, we will move to an absolute lower level of annual spend in future years, as evidenced by our $17 billion to 22 billion range that we have given you for 2017 to 2018.

Affordability considerations at the time will be paramount in determining actual budgets. Capital intensity will be going down, capital discipline will be going up.

You see the same general pattern on operating expense, same downward pattern on operating expense. Expenses continued to rise through 2014 but then notably turned south in mid-2015 as our deliberate cost savings initiatives began to take hold. The rolling first-quarter 2016 average is 6% lower than the comparable figure a year ago.

There are some transitional costs such as severance and rig termination fees that are incurred as we take steps to compete more effectively in a lower price environment. Once we are through with the transition costs and as we carry on with the implementation of our various cost savings initiatives, we expect to see continued movement towards a lower sustainable cost structure. Cost reduction momentum should continue through 2016 and 2017 as the full run rate of our actions is recognized.

Joe will now walk you through some specific examples of our cost reduction efforts before offering an update on key projects.

JOE GEAGEA, EVP, TECHNOLOGY, PROJECTS AND SERVICES, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Pat. Turning to slide 11, I will start by providing some examples in support of Pat's analysis. Our efforts have focused on achieving sustainable reductions and improving efficiencies.

On the organizational side, to date we have reduced our employee headcount by more than 4,000 relative to year-end 2014 and we are on target to achieve approximately 8,000 total employee reductions by the end of 2016. We are also on target to reduce our contractor workforce by about 6,500 from 2014 levels.

At the analyst meeting we shared with you examples of our improved drilling efficiencies in the Permian and Gulf of Mexico. So today let me give you an additional example from a different region of the world.

In Thailand, operational discipline and streamlined processes have enhanced drilling execution efficiency resulting in about 45% lower average days per 10,000 feet drilled in a two-year period, as you can see in the graph. And we are continuing to outperform our regional competitors.

We are also focused on improving our efficiencies and logistics. One example in West Africa includes shifting from department dedicated vessels to a centrally managed fleet using a decision support center. As a result of this effort, we expect to achieve savings of 30% and reduce the number of vessels in that region by about 40%.

We are also continuing to take advantage of our size and scale. In a different part of the world, we are coordinating contract awards with one supplier across three different regions in reducing the number of vessels by optimizing marine vessel size.

One of our focus areas is to retain gains achieved during this industry downturn. We are doing this across the globe. For example, in one region we are taking advantage of the current downturn to negotiate with our main supplier, lock in lower rates through 2022 and upgrade with newer and more capable equipment. It not only improved our rates, but is also expected to improve our reliability.

As we look ahead in the supply chain, we see opportunities for more strategic supplier relationships and standardization. At the analyst meeting we shared with you the cost savings achieved in the oil fields Tubulars category. These reductions were achieved through standardization and supplier rationalization where we went from having 35 suppliers in the past to four going forward.

On Gorgon, we have worked to standardize and intend to replicate subsea equipment generating procurement and installation efficiencies as well as considerable cost savings. And lastly, we have been working at standardizing the valves for some time and we will start deploying these standard valves on future projects.

Turning to slide 12, let me give you some project updates. At Gorgon, we commenced LNG production on March 7. We ramped up total production to approximately 90,000 barrels per day, and we shipped the first cargo on March 21. Since late March, we have incurred downtime at the plant due to mechanical issues with the propane refrigerant circuit of Train 1. Repairs to this equipment are nearing completion and we are in the process of reinstating the propane refrigerant circuit. We expect to restart Train 1 in the next few weeks and resume LNG production within the 30- to 60-day estimate we provided previously. We still expect to achieve Train 1 ramp-up within the previous guidance of six to eight months from initial start-up.

Construction on Trains 2 and 3 is progressing as planned and we anticipate these trains being ready for start-up at roughly six month intervals.

Turning to slide 13, at Wheatstone all nine development wells are completed. We expect to release the drilling rig in the next few months following well cleanup activities. Offshore platform hook-up and commissioning is progressing on track with this work expected to be complete well in advance of plant start-up.

At the plant site, piping, electrical and instrumentation work is progressing well. Our plan reflects observed performance rates on other Australian LNG projects. Actual rates are currently on track with our plan and the outlook for first LNG remains mid-2017.

Train 2 construction work is also progressing on schedule. 12 of 24 process modules required for Train 2 start-up are now on site and module deliveries are meeting scheduled milestones.

Turning to slide 14, I would like to share brief updates on the other projects which we are expecting to start-up this year.

At Angola LNG, gas has been introduced into the plant and the team is working through the start-up process with dehydration ongoing ahead of commencing liquefaction. We expect LNG production imminently and anticipate shipping the next cargo in May.

At Mafumeira Sul, hook-up and commissioning is ongoing. All structures, top sides and pipelines are installed and the living quarters platform is now occupied enabling increased manpower on piping, electrical and commissioning work. Batch drilling of the first 10 wells is complete and first production is expected later this year.

At Chuandongbei, Train 1 started up in January and we were able to ramp up to full capacity within 30 days. Train 2 came online in early April and ramp-up is in progress. We expect to start Train 3 this quarter.

At Alder, topsides have been installed and subsea installation work is progressing. At Bangka, well completions are currently ongoing. First production is expected from both these projects later this year.

Pat will now share an update on our asset sales program.

PAT YARRINGTON: All right. Thanks, Joe. Turning to slide 15, asset sales are a routine part of our business. They generate needed cash and they enable a more strategic, effective and capital efficient portfolio. Over the next two years, we are targeting $5 billion to $10 billion in sales proceeds. The assets targeted for sale are marketable and we believe the prospective transactions are executable as well.

We generally do not discuss specific assets targeted for sale until we have a transaction. However, there has been growing media coverage since our analyst day on a few of these prospective sales, and as such, we wanted to provide updates where possible.

The chart highlights some specific transactions that are in the public domain. You will note the vast majority of these are not oil price sensitive, and thus we expect to be able to obtain good values on the sale. There were no significant transactions in the first quarter but activity has picked up in the second quarter. Already known second-quarter transactions include the sale of our interest in two gas storage facilities in Western Canada, the sale of our KLM pipeline in Western San Joaquin crude oil pipelines in California, and the divestiture of 19 fields and associated assets located primarily in the Gulf of Mexico Outer Shelf and in Louisiana state waters.

In 2015, we signed an agreement to sell our New Zealand downstream operations subject to certain regulatory approvals. Those regulatory approvals were received yesterday and we now anticipate final closing midyear.

Just last week, we reached an agreement to sell our assets in Hawaii. The sale includes the 58,000 barrel per day refinery, interest in a 58 site branded service station network, four product distribution terminals, pipeline systems and other downstream-related assets. This transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to be completed in the second half of 2016.

In addition, we are soliciting interest to sell our 75% shareholding in South Africa downstream. We are also exploring potential interest in our geothermal business and Myanmar upstream assets.

In aggregate, while it is always difficult to be precise about specific timing, we currently have line of sight on around $2 billion in proceeds, maybe a little higher, for 2016. And because we have multiple transactions in the queue including those not highlighted on the slide, we have confidence in achieving our two-year $5 billion to $10 billion target.

Turning to slide 16, I would like to close with another slide from our recent investor session. It is an illustration of how we get cash balance next year. In this slide, we use $52 Brent, as it was the actual average price in 2015 and in line with average sell side analyst price targets for 2017. However, we are committed to balancing at any reasonable price. Spending will come down significantly this year and next as major development projects get finished and come online, as we high-grade future investments to shorter cycle higher return opportunities and as we get more efficient and lower our cost structure.

Cash generation will grow not only because of more production but also because of accretive cash margins on the new production. We will continue to streamline the portfolio. In short, we are taking the steps necessary to compete in a lower price environment. If a lower price environment persists for longer, we will adjust and pursue even more significant cost savings and even greater cuts in capital to continue to lower our cash flow breakeven.

We intend to be a resilient competitor regardless of the price environment.

Okay, that concludes our prepared remarks and we are now ready to take some questions. Please keep in mind that we have a lot of folks trying to get questions in so please limit yourself to one question and perhaps one follow-up if that is necessary. We will do our best to get all your questions answered.

Jonathan, please open the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Neil Mehta, Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANAYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, guys. So just, Pat, wanted to start off on dividend growth and just your thoughts on raising the dividend in 2016. Is that still a priority for the Company? And then how we should think about timing?

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure, yes. Sustaining and growing the dividend is still the first priority from a cash use standpoint for the Corporation. It long has been and it continues to be. Obviously our immediate financial environment makes this challenging. We have long said that we will raise the dividend when our cash flow and our earnings allow it to be sustained and obviously in the first quarter, that was not the circumstances that we found ourselves in and therefore a deferral was prudent.

I think going forward, the timing will obviously be dependent upon future cash, future earnings, what happens to price, what happens to our project ramp-ups, how all that plays out in future quarters.

We will also have to take a look at what we think is happening to commodity prices over a longer sweep of time because again, we are looking at the dividend as being essentially a commitment in perpetuity. We are very aware of our 28-year record of consecutive annual per-share payment increases and that will be taken into account. So the Board will take all of this into account as it looks at dividends each and every quarter.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, SCOTIA HOWARD WEIL: Folks, good morning. When I look at the composition of the upstream earnings, it seems like the US scene is kind of lackluster compared to the international component and to me that is kind of a proxy for short cycle versus long cycle. I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about how you envision the economics there changing as far as short cycle may be improving relative to long cycle longer-term?

JOE GEAGEA: Okay, let me start by restating that prices were very low in the first quarter. As Pat mentioned, there were a number of one-time events in the first quarter which adversely impacted our production. Going forward we still expect to realize the growth range we provided at our analyst meeting.

The key for us is to really exercise the things within our control and that is to continue to drive costs down and to improve our efficiencies. And we have given several proof points in the past about how much progress we have done in that regard. We are now in full horizontal factory mode in the Permian. We brought our well costs down by about 40% and we have about 4,000 well locations that offer us a 10% rate of return at around $50 WTI. And when you add on top of all of that the royalty advantage that we have, we see our activity in the Permian as being very, very strong.

So the key for us is to continue to be competitive and we do that very well because we also have NOJVs -- so we have a good line of sight on how well other people are operating in the basin, and of course, we screen and base our own economics. And lastly, the royalty advantage give us a tremendous boost here.

PAT YARRINGTON: I would just like to add too that as we lower our operating expenses from a corporate standpoint as well as in terms of organizational efficiencies, you are going to continue to see those benefits come through as well. And I talked earlier about some transitional costs, severance costs being one of those that I would highlight. That impacted the US segment in this particular quarter and as we move through that, you will obviously have stronger earnings once those are concluded.

JOE GEAGEA: To support Pat, our costs at the center have gone down by 20% and many SBUs in our upstream in particular have gone through tremendous re-organizational changes, and we are going to see the fruit of that over the next few quarters.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Got it. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Pat, you provided on slide 16 an illustration of how you can get back to flat with a $52 assumption and an arrow pointing upwards on price recovery. If that arrow is pointing downwards and you mentioned you would prioritize the dividend and go into further cost savings and further CapEx cuts, how low could you go on CapEx? Can you give us an idea of what the absolute base number is for you guys? Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't want to go to an absolute base number. I mean we have given you a range of $17 billion to $22 billion and I think the $17 billion number was low kind of given a representative or a reasonable set of price expectations. But frankly if we find ourselves in a different place, affordability is a paramount consideration here for us and we will continue to prioritize and high grade our opportunities.

Our primary methodology in terms of capital allocation starts from what do we absolutely need to do to maintain reliability, maintain the asset integrity? After we have concluded what that is for the operation, then we build up our capital program after that and we have a great deal of flexibility. So each and every one of those layers of additional spend will have significant hurdles that they have to overcome and affordability becomes an overriding consideration.

So we will continue to manage the capital down commensurate with the price environment. We will continue to push forward with our asset sales.

I mentioned only $2 billion or so line of sight, maybe a little bit more for this year but we see our way clear to the $5 billion to $10 billion program and obviously for us to have confidence in saying it is $5 billion to $10 billion, we've got more lined up behind that because we know not every transaction will be executed in the timeframe that we have outlined. So we feel confident about our ability to get cash balanced at any reasonable price here.

PAUL SANKEY: That first number that you gave, what is the number? That is not $17 billion is it? The starting point number? That is the number I'm looking for.

PAT YARRINGTON: The $17 billion. (multiple speakers) It was the bottom of the range that we gave for C&E prospectively for 2017 to 2018.

PAUL SANKEY: But the number that you said you would start with as an absolute minimum for integrity, that is the number I'm looking for.

PAT YARRINGTON: And we haven't publicized that number. It would be low because it really is just from an asset integrity and asset reliability standpoint. All I can say is the vast majority of our capital program is above that and would give us opportunities for flexibility.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, Pat. So a key message from the analyst day was obviously as you get these big projects lined up, shift to shorter cycle shale but also monetize the large brownfield opportunity which you already have behind existing facilities that you have built, and you should be much more capital intensive. That is a good thing. On the other hand, your debt burden is clearly going to be much higher. It depends how long the down cycle lasts.

So can you talk a little bit about where you want to end up in terms of debt burden? It is good news that you talked about extra disposal candidates over and above the $5 billion to $10 billion but talk to how you are going to get the debt down to a more usual level?

PAT YARRINGTON: The way I look at this, and the way we look at this, really is that obviously when you're at the peak of a price cycle that is when you want to have restored your balance sheet, have an ultraconservative balance sheet and that allows you to come through a price downturn. Right now we are sitting at a 22% debt ratio. We showed a slide at the security analyst meeting that said we could take somewhere between $25 billion to $30 billion of incremental debt. That would take us up to about a 30% debt ratio. There is nothing necessarily magic about the 30%. It was just an indicative place to do a measurement ourselves versus peers.

But I would see as you go through the lows of a price cycle you would expect your debt burden to increase into the 30%-ish range, maybe a little bit higher on a temporary basis. But if you look through the whole cycle, I think a good place for a Company like Chevron with projects that we take on, our size, our scale, our scope would be probably in the low 20s through the cycle, but getting into the 30%-ish range we could handle that if it is temporary.

ED WESTLAKE: And then a very quick one just on the actual costs, were there any sort of restructuring charges affecting the cash or anything else that we should focus on in terms of the cash generation? Was it more in line with the macro sensitivity that you would have expected?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, I would say cash from operations was low this quarter operationally obviously because of crude price, but we did have the working capital consumption of about $1 billion and then there were several items that were not particularly ratable. Pension contributions were one of those, affiliate dividends weren't particularly ratable as well.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, Pat. Good morning, Frank. Good morning, Joe. I guess this is kind of a follow-up to Ed's question because the question seems to be coming up for a lot of the industry right now is when do you start re-upping spending in contrast to when do you or how far do you repair your balance sheet? Obviously with companies of your size, the issue is long cycle capital projects. In light of your comments about the balance sheet getting up into the 30s, should we think about you as in kind of harvest mode until you get that balance sheet back to where you want it to be? And I wonder if you could just characterize for us what your appetite is for large-scale new project sanctions and obviously in the top of my mind is Tengiz.

PAT YARRINGTON: So I will just go back to our cash flow priorities. Dividend is number one, reinvesting in the business number two and then a prudent financial structure, strong balance sheet is number three. By virtue of the opportunities we have ahead of us in terms of moving towards more short cycle, frankly all of the advantages that we have in the Permian, we have growing capital flexibility. So we will see shorter cycle movement there and that obviously puts less of a strain on your balance sheet because you can adjust those as conditions permit.

But we are going to continue to go forward with major capital projects and FGP is the poster child for that. That is an important project for us, an economic project for us to go forward with and we will continue to do those. So I think of it as being over time a better balance between short-cycle opportunities and long-cycle opportunities.

We are coming off a period that was significantly weighted by long duration, highly capital intensive projects, and we are moving the portfolio now, our investments now to a better balance between those. So I think we have got a tremendous amount of flexibility to not only reinvest in the business in short cycle, take on selective high graded wonderful projects like FGP, but also then have opportunity to restore the balance sheet.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay, thanks for the answer, Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Those balancing activities will all be part of our balancing considerations as we go forward.

DOUG LEGGATE: There is no debt target as such then?

PAT YARRINGTON: There is no debt target as such.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, guys. I know there has been an increased focus on project execution and emphasized on the third-quarter call from John and the analyst day more engineering and less reliance on third parties and more oversight. Maybe Joe, because you are on the call today, how do these plans increase your confidence in the ability to improve execution as you deliver this broader slate of projects and where are the biggest areas for continued improvement or execution risk as you bring them online?

JOE GEAGEA: I will start by acknowledging that we do some things well. We have delivered good projects. We have Jack/St. Malo. We have the Bibyana expansion. We have Agbami 3. These are three recent examples where we actually delivered on cost and schedule. Having said that, we and the industry have learned a great deal over the last few years, and the only thing we can do is to actually take those learnings and apply them on future projects.

Gorgon Trains 2 and 3 and Wheatstone Trains 1 and 2 will benefit from all the learnings on Angola LNG and Gorgon Train 1. All the things -- the initiatives that were highlighted at the analyst meeting -- in terms of what it takes to actually improve our chances of execution, we are committed to doing those. We are moving a lot of things in house. We are going to focus on design and engineering. We are going to assure those designs. We are going to pick the right contractors. We are going to work hard on the right contracting strategy. We need to get projects ready for execution, and we are applying all of those on FGP and recall the slide that we had back in March. FGP is going to be wonderful for us because it is countercyclical.

We are going to go into a period where there is capacity in the industry. We are going to go into a period where we will have the right organizational capability working on those projects, and I think it is a tremendous time for us to actually deliver better on those projects. We will have lower execution risk as well on the base shale and tight.

We have done look-backs on our short-term investments, and we don't talk about them that much but they actually beat the expectations always. So as we move into short cycle, we are very confident delivering those as we take the learnings on the MCPs. Whether it is FGP or other projects we are considering doing, I believe our chances of improving execution and delivering those projects should be improved.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, guys. Joe, just curious, I think a lot of people sort of comment especially in the US shale, their supply cost deflation may be coming pretty close to a bottom. So I don't know whether you agree. And I also want to see if you do, does it make sense now to start to lock in the supply cost curve given that it may be close to a bottom, and how far you guys may be willing to do it?

JOE GEAGEA: Thanks for the question, Paul. I agree with you. I think our opportunity is to work with suppliers and to see if we can have an arrangement that actually gives us a better shot at cost, and we are already having those conversations with our suppliers.

Now key to this is how much capital are we going to put into those activities and as Pat said, we have to consider all the lenses before we commit capital. Our intention is to move in that direction. I believe we have the organizational capability to deliver on this, and the conversation we are having with our suppliers tell us that we can do so.

And those conversations with respect to locking in rigs and material give us greater confidence that we can sustain some of the savings and the efficiencies that we are seeing right now. So we are exactly working on the kind of things you are suggesting.

PAUL CHENG: Can you comment in terms of what kind of extend that you are willing to do lock in for your expected 50% of your supply requirement for the next five years or lock in for three years, five years. Any kind of the magnitude that you can share?

JOE GEAGEA: All I can tell you is it takes also the supplier to be willing to have those conversations. We clearly have talked about one year, two year, potentially three years in certain areas on rigs, and we are willing to consider that. But like I said, they are going to depend on the program that we have, the pace in which we want to invest, but all of those are on the table, and I think the suppliers are increasingly willing to have that discussion with us. And, they are going to see us with the position that I described earlier in the Permian as a key customer for them.

They are going to view those relationships more strategic. They are going to be willing to work with us on everything in the contracts -- it is not just the rate that is important. There's a lot of other clauses in the contracts that are importable. So they will see us as a reliable customer with a commitment to the region, and they clearly want to do business with us.

OPERATOR: Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just a follow-up on the asset sales commentary, you had talked about $2 billion or so for this year and so it kind of back-end loads the high-end of the $5 billion to $10 billion target. So maybe any additional color you would have on whether the oil price environment or the asset sale environment in any way kind of pushes you towards the low end or high end of that range? How are you thinking about it now?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think what we are really just seeing is acknowledgment that some of these transactions take much longer to close for regulatory approval reasons or whatnot than you might think. And so we are just being cautious in terms of the guidance that we are giving not only in terms of the $5 billion to $10 billion. We feel that is executable, those are transactable but pinning it down to whether it is going to happen in the next nine months is very hard for us to say at this point. We have a number of transaction activities underway and getting the precise timing as to whether it closes in 2016 or it closes in 2017 is where the difficult challenge lies. They can be very lumpy.

I do agree, it is back-end loaded for this year, we believe, but I think it is also likely to be back-end loaded for the 2016 to 2017 time period. Overall we still have confidence in that $5 billion to $10 billion range that we have indicated for the two years.

PHIL GRESH: Understood. How much is locked in for 2Q by the way?

PAT YARRINGTON: Won't give a number completely for 2Q. I will just say again for line of sight for this year, we anticipate somewhere around $2 billion, maybe a little bit more. Don't want to get precise on the quarters though. I feel good about April because it is almost closed but I don't want to get any more precise than that.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, Evercore ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Today's commentary seems to emphasize that cost productivity and asset sales and performance from new projects is going to lead to a stronger cash flow for Chevron and that seems pretty reasonable to me. And on this point -- I have two questions. First, for clarification, does the divestiture under consideration in Myanmar represent the majority of the position in that country?

The second question is somewhat different -- if the industry does recover and free cash flow does materialize, the question is whether there are likely to be changes to Chevron's capital priorities over the medium-term? And I ask this question because I think Pat talked a few minutes about greater focus on returns being likely in the future. But I don't think much was said about how share repurchases might play into the mix. So just wanted to see if we could get some color on the capital management priorities and how that might change over the medium-term if they do at all?

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't really see our priorities changing over the medium-term. We are consistent in how we use the cash and the priorities we have for that. We have laid out the investment program not only for the rest of this year but for 2017 and 2018 where it is a shift to the shorter cycle investments. There will be selective major capital projects that get pushed into the portfolio, pushed into the queue. FGP is obviously the headliner on that.

I don't see share repurchases coming into play in the medium-term here. That is the last use of cash and I don't see us being in a position where that would be a relevant item for us in the medium-term.

In terms of Myanmar, it is a full exit.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, great. Thanks a lot, Pat.

OPERATOR: Roger Read, Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Just to follow up on the $52 laid out for 2017 and kind of the expectation I guess of cash flow neutrality, the CapEx $17 billion to $22 billion, should we think of the asset sales as what impacts the range of CapEx if the price were to average $52 in 2017 or what are some of the other factors there?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think you are asking about the capital flexibility we have between the $17 billion versus the $22 billion.

ROGER READ: And if oil were $52, what would then determine $17 billion versus the $22 billion? I understand the range. I'm trying to understand what would affect which part of the range and whether or not asset sales are part of that assumption?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. So the overall objective is to get balanced in 2017 and obviously if we are falling short on asset sale proceeds for a reason or other, we would want to take that into account in determining what the capital outlays are because it really is the objective to get balanced. So there would be a trade-off potentially there if we weren't seeing the execution on asset sales. We don't anticipate that being the case however.

In terms of the prioritization though, let me just go back to the logic and the process that we have for building up the capital program. We start with the asset integrity and reliability foundation and then each and every layer of projects above that competes on its merits on a returns focused kind of basis. And we will balance the short-cycle investments and we will balance initiation and commitment to larger longer-cycle capital projects.

Again the only one of size that is queued up here in the near-term would be Future Growth Project. So we will take all of that into account. The overarching objective though is to get balanced on cash in 2017.

We continue to be very focused on capital discipline and so there will be high hurdle rates for all of the projects coming forward for possible inclusion in the capital budget.

OPERATOR: Anish Kapadia, TPH.

ANISH KAPADIA, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT & CO.: Just had a question looking at some of the pre-FID projects. I was wondering if you could give an idea of where the oil price breakeven has come down to for some of these key projects such as the Tengiz complex, some of your other lower tertiary discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico and also Rosebank in the UK.

The second question was just looking at returns, I was just wondering if you look at things internationally, does anything come even close on a risk-adjusted basis to the Permian? That is when you kind of take into account the higher geological fiscal political risk. Just wondering how you look at that capital allocation? Thank you.

JOE GEAGEA: I will take the deepwater question first. Just to put it in context, we are already producing about 140,000 barrels a day in the Gulf of Mexico in the deepwater and we do that through five operated assets and four non-operated assets. We are also the largest leaseholder in the Gulf. So in the near-term with that footprint, we do see many brownfield deepwater opportunities. In fact, 80% of our spend -- development spend -- over the next few years is going to be geared towards brownfield development such as Jack/St. Malo and Tahiti where we actually have good economics. We have already said the single well breakeven is typically in the $20 to $40 Brent range.

We have also demonstrated tremendous improvement in drilling and completion efficiency so we continue to bring the cost equation down.

Now if we are talking about new greenfield development, we've got a few things that need to happen there. Obviously we need scale in the resource but we also need to rethink about how we bring our development. We talked before about optimizing our development concept where we could be trading lower plateau and maybe NPV for greater capital efficiencies. And this is another place where we actually need our suppliers. We need to work closely with them to continue to drive the cost down.

This is an important area for us to be good at and we are committed to do that.

Now in terms of how does the Permian compete? We can't just be a Permian company. We have a lot of other places where actually we have good resources. We talked about Tengiz, we talked about Thailand, we talked about Indonesia. Australia is going to give us those opportunities. So yes, while the Permian give us tremendous advantage, the size of our Company will require us to actually be broader and to put our capital in places where we can get good economics but not to be solely a one asset class company.

OPERATOR: Brad Heffern, RBC Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFERN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, everyone. I guess with Gorgon coming very close to the finish line at this point, I was wondering if you can give an update on ultimately where the costs are expected to land for that project and also if on Wheatstone you are still using the same budget?

JOE GEAGEA: I will start with Wheatstone. We are still operating under the same funding appropriation which we have communicated to you previously. We do acknowledge we have seen cost pressures but at the same time these have been offset by favorable foreign exchange. We are working very hard to mitigate those cost pressures. Earlier this week we had a good review of that project and we are very encouraged by the progress. I alluded to that in my prepared remarks.

So the progress we make over the next eight to 12 months will be very important in terms of where we are going to end up but for now, there is really no reason to change our view on the cost. AAgain, Wheatstone is a huge resource base for us and it is very important to deliver it.

Now in terms of Gorgon, we have seen cost pressures in Gorgon but at the moment really we are not going to change the cost estimate that we have provided previously.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

LUANA SIEGFRIED, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: This is Luana Siegfried in for Pavel. Good morning, thank you for the call. I have two quick questions on the US production. So I was wondering if you could share a little bit more details in the US production which grew only by 0.4% year-over-year even with Jack/St. Malo and solid production from the Permian?

FRANK MOUNT, GENERAL MANAGER, INVESTOR RELATIONS., CHEVRON CORPORATION: I'm sorry, this is Frank. Could you please repeat that? I was confused by the question.

LUANA SIEGFRIED: Sure, Frank. I was just wondering like which plays that are actually in the US are offsetting the growth factors like Jack/St. Malo or the Permian?

FRANK MOUNT: So can I repeat? I think you are basically saying where are we seeing some base declines in the US that offset the growth we have in the MCPs?

PAT YARRINGTON: A piece of that obviously is coming from asset sale divestitures if you are looking at first quarter to first quarter. A significant piece of Gulf of Mexico multiple asset divestments occurred.

LUANA SIEGFRIED: Perfect. And if I may have just another quick one in the US. Do you have any updates on Bigfoot, the latest startup for the production?

JOE GEAGEA: Is the question about Bigfoot?

LUANA SIEGFRIED: Yes.

JOE GEAGEA: There is no change from the prior guidance we gave and that is the second half of 2018.

FRANK MOUNT: Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: It looks like that concludes the lineup of questioners. So thank you very much. I want to thank everybody for their time today. We appreciate your interest in Chevron and appreciate your participation. Jonathan, I will turn it back to you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's first-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160430ec4t008kd
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  Chevron  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,702 words
   PD
29 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's fourth-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. John Watson. Please go ahead.

   TD
JOHN WATSON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's fourth-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Frank Mount, the General Manager of Investor Relations. We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

Turning to slide 3, today, we announced a quarterly loss in annual results that were significantly below prior years. Pat will walk you through the financial details, but prior to that, I would like to provide a few thoughts. In 2015, we delivered strong underlying operating results. We had one of our best years in personal safety, process safety and environmental performance. On most measures, we either matched 2014's record low or set new lows in 2015.

The downstream business produced strong financial performance underpinned by one of the best years ever in terms of facility utilization and reliability. In upstream, we grew production by 2%, within the guidance we provided a year ago. Additionally, we logged a five-year reserve replacement ratio of 113%.

Despite the strong operating results, an oversupplied market led prices to fall to levels not seen since 2004 (corrected by company after the call). As expected, our financial results suffered. Across the corporation, we are responding to this low-price environment. Our priorities remain completing projects under construction and reducing spend, both operating expense and capital, to levels consistent with current conditions. We will also continue to divest assets where we can obtain a good value.

Our number one financial priority is to maintain and grow the dividend. We have a strong balance sheet for precisely transition times like this. Pat will now take you through our financial results.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Okay, thanks, John. I will be presenting three slides on our financial results. Additional earnings and production variance slides, along with the tabulation of special items are available in the appendix section of the presentation on our website.

Turning now to slide 4, an overview of our financial performance. The Company's fourth-quarter loss was $588 million or $0.31 per diluted share. Excluding foreign exchange, impairments and other special items, earnings for the quarter totaled $491 million or $0.26 per share. For the year, earnings were $4.6 billion or $5.6 billion, excluding special items and foreign exchange. Return on capital employed was 2.5% and our debt ratio at year-end was approximately 20%.

During the fourth quarter, we paid $2 billion in dividends, bringing our total for the year to $8 billion or $4.28 per share. 2015 was the 28th consecutive year of annual per-share dividend increases.

Turning to slide 5, cash generated from operations was $4.6 billion during the fourth quarter and $19.5 billion for the full year. Fourth-quarter cash flow declined because of lower commodity prices and lower downstream margins. Proceeds from asset sales for 2015 were $5.7 billion bringing our two-year total to more than $11 billion. Cash capital expenditures were $7.4 billion for the quarter and $29.5 billion for the full year. At year-end, our cash and cash equivalents totaled more than $11 billion. During 2015, we borrowed approximately $11 billion and at year-end, our net debt stood at $27 billion resulting in a net debt ratio of approximately 15%.

Slide 6 compares 2015 full-year earnings with 2014. Earnings for 2015 were $4.6 billion or approximately $14.7 billion lower than the 2014 results. Special items such as asset impairments, project suspensions and other charges, along with lower gains on asset sales, reduced earnings between periods by $3.1 billion, while the change in foreign exchange impacts increased earnings by approximately $300 million.

Upstream earnings, excluding special items and foreign exchange, decreased $14.6 billion between periods as lower realizations were only slightly offset by higher liftings, lower operating costs and other items. Downstream results, excluding special items and foreign exchange, increased by $2.2 billion, primarily due to higher margins. The variance in the other segment primarily reflects lower tax items. I'd like to now turn it back to John.

JOHN WATSON: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 7, we're aggressively reducing investment and driving cost out of our business. During 2015, total spend was down approximately $9 billion or more than 12%. Capital outlays alone were down $6 billion. Part of this reduction was long-scheduled as in-progress major capital projects were completed and outlays ramped down.

In addition, capital expenditure savings were achieved because of deliberate choices being made to reprioritize and repace investments and by challenging supply chain costs. Operating expenses also declined between years. The largest impact occurred in our upstream and corporate segments reflecting purposeful initiatives to rationalize headcount and boost workflow efficiencies. In upstream, declining costs and growing production led to a lower operating cost per barrel, which is expected to exceed 10% when the final results are reported in our 10-K.

Looking to 2016, we expect to see additional spend reduction in the range of 13% to 18% as the full-year run rate effects of many of the 2015 initiatives come to bear and incremental cost-saving projects are implemented.

Turning to slide 8, our investment priorities remain consistent. We will fund investments to ensure safe, reliable operations, complete the projects already under construction, enable investment in high return short cycle opportunities and preserve options for viable long cycle projects.

In December, we announced a 2016 capital program of $26.6 billion, which was within the guidance range provided on our third-quarter earnings call. Since then, market conditions have deteriorated and we will be responsive. Flexibility in our capital program allows discretion in our spend with a likely outcome for 2016 being near the bottom of our guidance range. Looking beyond 2016, our flexibility will continue to increase and we expect further reductions in our capital program.

Turning to slide 9, divestitures are a normal part of our portfolio work. We will divest assets that no longer have a strategic fit or do not compete for capital with our other investment alternatives. Our asset sales program has been successful as well-timed transactions have captured good value and generated $11.5 billion in cash through the end of 2015.

Over 2016 and 2017, we're targeting another $5 billion to $10 billion in divestments. Publicly known in-progress transactions include New Zealand and South Africa downstream businesses, the Hawaii refinery, upstream and pipeline assets in the Gulf of Mexico shelf and gas storage assets in Canada. Additional opportunities are being pursued and will be disclosed in due course when commercial sensitivities permit. In all cases, we will only sell assets where we can realize fair value.

Turning to slide 10, in 2015, we grew annual production by 2%. Rampups at major capital projects, including Jack/St. Malo and Tubular Bells and the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Bibiyana expansion in Bangladesh, along with shale and tight production growth of approximately 30%, contributed to increased volumes.

Additionally, current prices benefited production through PSC and other entitlement effects. Offsetting the increases was the effect of a shut-in of the Partitioned Zone production, the impact of asset sales and a base decline of less than 2%. For 2016, our production guidance is a range of flat to 4% growth. The uncertainty is a reflection of market conditions, current activities and divestments.

To clarify, production from the Partitioned Zone remains shut in. The exact timing of production restart is unknown and dependent on dispute resolutions between sovereign states. Contributions from major capital project startups and rampups will be significant in 2016 and small movements in timing or the pace of rampups can make a significant difference in annual production.

Uncertainty in exact timing and precise composition of asset divestments will be another variable because we are value-driven on all sales.

Finally, current market conditions will create impacts related to PSC and other pricing-related entitlement effects. Additionally, low prices will restrict our overall spend levels, which in turn will result in somewhat higher base decline rates.

Turning to slide 11, our reserve replacement in 2015 was 107%. We saw significant adds in our shale and tight assets, which reflect strong well performance results and new geologic data in these plays. Additional volumes were booked based upon development drilling results at Wheatstone, strong base business performance resulted in positive reserve revisions, including Tengiz, Thailand, Nigeria and the Gulf of Mexico. Commodity price impact benefited in entitlement volumes for profit-sharing and variable royalty contracts. Our five-year reserve replacement ratio is 113%.

Now let's talk about progress on our major capital projects starting with Gorgon. Turning to slide 12, at Gorgon, system commissioning from train one is in the final stages with key process units starting up, a cooldown cargo delivered and system cooling underway. The first LNG production is expected within the next few weeks with first cargo anticipated soon after that. We will be ramping up train one in the months ahead. Gas for train one startup will come from Jansz-lo wells. These wells have been successfully flow-tested and initial performance indications look good.

On trains two and three, all modules have been delivered to site and construction is progressing. Lessons learned from train one are being applied and key milestones are being achieved on schedule with start-ups expected at approximately six-month intervals after train one.

Turning to Wheatstone on slide 13, on the upstream portion of the project, hookup and commissioning of the offshore platform is progressing. The trunkline is ready for service and the final tie-in work is ongoing. Six of nine wells are drilled and completed offering sufficient well capacity for the first train. At the plant site, the operations center and LNG loading jetty are complete and tank hydro testing is ongoing. As previously communicated, initial module fabrication in Malaysia was delayed.

We were successful in mitigating further delays and all modules required for train one are now on site. Piping and cabling work is ongoing. The pace of this work will determine critical path towards first LNG, which is expected to be midyear 2017. Train two module deliveries are underway and on track. Turning to slide 15, I've just run through the steps we've already taken to improve our financial results and to be responsive to current market conditions. On the elements we control, operating expenses, capital outlays and project execution, you can expect even more improvements in 2016. However, price remains a significant uncertainty. I'll come back to that in just a minute.

What I would like to talk about is other projects that we have that are also contributing to our performance. If you look at the chart on page 14, you'll see that we have significant progress on new projects. We have the Lianzi and Moho Nord, which came on in the fourth quarter. Chuandongbei, the first train of Chuandongbei has come online and here in January of 2016.

We're seeing progress on Angola LNG as recommissioning is underway. We expect to introduce gas to the plant later this quarter and have first LNG cargo in the second quarter. Mafumeira Sul in Angola, Bangka in Indonesia and Alder in the North Sea are also progressing towards expected startup later in the year.

I mentioned that price is a very significant uncertainty to us going forward. If you look at slide 15, you'll see a chart that was put together by WoodMac. This obviously represents a significant source of uncertainty in cash flows going forward. Consistent with many of you, we believe demand will continue to grow. The larger wildcard or uncertainty, if you will, is supply.

Non-OPEC liquids production, which is shown on this chart, remained much more resilient in 2015 than most predicted. With the significant contraction in global investment caused by low prices, the world would see supplies drop off. WoodMac shows that occurring this year, thereby pushing the oil market into better balance. Until that balance occurs, prices will continue to be constrained and the financial damage to the energy sector seen in 2015 will continue.

Relative to balance sheet strength and growing flexibility in our spend, Chevron will be advantaged relative to the others in this industry as prices rebound. We are well-positioned to benefit when the market does balance and prices begin to rise because of the leverage that we have and our growing production profile.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We're now ready to keep some questions. Keep in mind that we do have a full queue, so please try to limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up, if necessary. We will do our best to get all of your questions answered. So Jonathan, please open the lines.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGANCHASE: Good morning. Thanks for all the color today. The dividend coverage priority is obviously key and very clear. On the third-quarter call, you built us a bridge to cover the dividend with free cash flow by 2017, which looked fairly reasonable in the $50 or so environment. And you highlight the flexibility for 2016 in the slides. So I guess what I was wondering is looking out to 2017 if we're sub $50, how low can you realistically go with additional CapEx and OpEx cuts before you feel like you might need asset sales or the balance sheet to bridge the gap? Is there a level of CapEx you really don't want to go below?

JOHN WATSON: Well, our flexibility continues to grow and, Phil, we're obviously working that number very closely. The level of spend -- if we continue to see the kinds of prices that we're seeing now, the cost of goods and services will continue to decline. We've got the impact of foreign exchange rates, etc. The biggest change between what we'll spend this year and next year is really the rampdown from major capital projects. So for example, this year, we'll be spending about $6 billion on LNG projects around the world, obviously, finishing Angola LNG and then as we wind down Gorgon and have a little more spend on Wheatstone. We expect next year that spend will be under $2 billion, so you gain $4 billion right there.

And then our flexibility grows as time goes by. We obviously have to invest to keep our operations reliable. We will still have some projects that are under construction and being completed and additional commitments and drilling off of platforms and things of that sort. But I think our flexibility is significant. We gave you a range of $20 billion to $24 billion, but we're going to continue to drive that number down.

I guess my overall message is that we're going to continue to live within our means that we have and it obviously makes sense to finish the projects under construction. We have a strong balance sheet and maybe I'll offer a couple of comments in that area because a lot of people ask. I've given the priority is to pay and grow the dividend and in order to do that, obviously, you do have to invest in the business because we are a depleting resource business.

So those are always the first two priorities that we have consistent with good economics on the spending. We've indicated that we're in a long cycle business and in such a long cycle business where you can have ups and downs in the commodity markets and you get started on long cycle projects, you need a strong balance sheet and so we have always advertised that and indicated that a AA rating was what we were looking for.

And that is really indicative of needing to have a strong balance sheet. But the reason you keep a strong balance sheet is so you can withstand the ups and downs of the business and right now, we're in the downs with prices low and so we'll use our balance sheet this year almost regardless of where prices are during the year. And we're going to cut costs, we're going to reduce spend where we can and that flexibility grows in time.

We work very closely with the rating agencies. We talk to rating agencies. They see our internal forecasts around our business. They see more than you do, in other words. And so we'll be very clear where our priorities are and where the flexibility is and then they have to do their job. But we think that we'll retain a very strong balance sheet and the ability to withstand these ups and downs.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. That's very helpful. Thanks. And then just on the projects, I appreciate all the updates there. Maybe you could just let us know where you stand on the FID for Tengiz and given what you've been saying about the macro environment and how long this could last. Where does that stand today?

JOHN WATSON: As you know, Phil -- it's a good question. Tengiz, as you know, has been a very good business for us in Kazakhstan. We and our partners have had very good relationships there and we've had a lot of success, financial and otherwise. And the next phase of opportunity there is the Wellhead Pressure Management Project and the Future Growth Project. And we've been working this for some time and we've consciously delayed FID. When prices came down, we consciously delayed FID so that we could get additional definition around the project, get greater certainty around what the costs would be and frankly to drive costs down given the opportunity that is present given conditions in the industry and we've had some success with that.

But we're not at the point where we're ready to take FID today. With low prices that we're seeing, we're working closely with our partners to ensure that we have adequate funding for the project and to further take costs down. We have been pacing investment. We've been doing critical infrastructure work, but we're still working this project to get it in condition for FID. So I think you'll see us continue to pace investments and we will keep you updated when we can. We do think these projects are good. We do think that they will go forward, but we're continuing to work it to drive costs down and get alignment on financing.

PHIL GRESH: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning. John, two questions, if I may. For 2016, you gave a range of $25 billion at the low end and you indicate that you -- given the market condition -- you most likely go down to $25 billion. If you really have to, is there any additional area that you would be willing to cut and drive it down further and what's that area and by how much or that this is really the minimum that you can go given the major projects pending?

The second question, if I could, is a quick one. We understand that you have one of the strongest balance sheets, but the credit agencies are also becoming increasingly hostile to the energy sector and look like that they may have a sector downgrade anyway. So what may be the minimum credit rating that is acceptable by the Company?

JOHN WATSON: Okay, well, in terms of flexibility when it comes to capital program, we've given you that range for a good reason. As I indicated, we've got some committed spend that's likely to go forward regardless of the price environment and really it pertains to the big LNG projects and the projects that are under construction. So we're going to continue to work spend down and there's always a little bit more flexibility. There's the uncertainty of exchange rates and things of that sort, but I don't want to flag a significant reduction below the range -- below the $26.6 billion that's in our budget and below the range that we've talked about because I don't want to shut in all rigs around the world, for example.

There obviously are things you could do that I don't think are the proper things to do given our expectations going forward. For example, we've done terrific work in the Permian Basin to get our costs down. And we want to keep that momentum going. So we have 6 operated rigs, 14 non-operated rigs. We want to continue that activity. Our group has done a terrific job of getting costs down and obviously, at $30, every business is stressed, but we think that supplies are going to be needed and we want to continue the activity that we have there. We need to continue to drive down costs, but we want to continue that activity. So there's a little bit more room, but I don't want to flag something outside the range.

I offered some comments on the philosophy. Maybe I let Pat talk a little bit about interaction with the rating agencies and her view on what sort of minimum requirements might be.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, so as John said, the rating agencies need to do what the rating agencies need to do and they have conservative oil price scenarios out there and I think that's understandable. If you were in their position, you would be doing the same thing and I think it's perfectly reasonable to think that Chevron, along with everybody in the industry, in this particular price environment would be up for review. They've indicated that many of the companies are up for review. I'm certain that Chevron will be in that queue right after the first tiering goes through.

So if a downgrade does occur, and I think they've been moving in that direction, but if that were to occur, we would not be the only one that that would happen to. I don't see it materially impacting our cost of funds or materially impacting our ability to secure financing.

And in terms of a minimum, I guess I don't think of it that way. We have a strong balance sheet even if there were to be a downgrade. We have a very strong balance sheet, amongst the strongest in the industry, and we've already committed and said multiple times that we are going to get balance. We will live within our cash flow. And I think that is the profile that we put forward to the rating agencies.

JOHN WATSON: I will just say, you asked about flexibility on CapEx for 2016. I don't want to suggest there isn't additional flexibility for 2017 and 2018 because there is, particularly if lower prices persist. But we've given you a range that reflects what we think today based on the forward look. Obviously, if conditions remain where they are today, we'll review those numbers just as we would all our other operating statistics.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thank you and hi, everyone. I just wanted to ask about, as you are reviewing potential capital expenditure reductions, how the Deepwater program actually fits into this discussion because I note a string of successes in both exploration and appraisal that's occurring in the Deepwater right now, so how do you think about that drilling program? And then secondly, within the Deepwater, how do you see that competing over the medium term? Do you still see that as being within the cost curve based upon your own projections of where oil prices could go?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, it's a great question and it's one of the areas that I think we and others in the industry are looking at very closely. And I guess if I can take just a second to sort of back up a little bit, if you look at the macro environment on where supplies are going to come from to meet any demand estimate that might be out there, the world is going to need Deepwater oil. It is a significant resource and over time those barrels are going to be needed.

Now, right now, the costs in the Deepwater haven't come down quite as fast as they have onshore. We obviously have seen some rig rate reductions, but in general as we get to deeper and deeper water, some projects are challenged. We have mentioned last year in our analyst meeting that we felt it would take larger accumulations to make some of these Deepwater projects successful. So the precise numbers are being worked, but you are going to need bigger accumulations and larger hubs in order to justify the infrastructure. And then tieback similarly will need somewhat higher prices.

We had some special charges in the fourth quarter and $0.5 billion was writing off Buckskin and Moccasin and that's a project that we thought would go forward. First, we thought it might have the potential to be a hub and then we thought it had the potential to be a tieback. And I won't say that that project couldn't have gone forward and that it wouldn't meet minimum thresholds depending upon your forward view of prices, but relative to our alternatives, we felt that for the foreseeable future, we've got better places to put our money. And so we made the very difficult decision to not go forward with that project.

And so the clock was ticking where it was going to require a couple billion dollars of investments over the next few years and we just felt over the next few years, we are going to have better places to put our money, notably the Permian.

So there are tough choices being made. Now, we have a good position in the Deepwater. We've been as successful as anyone there and we have been successful in driving costs down. We've seen really unbelievable progress last year. We had a 30% reduction in days per 10,000 feet in 2015 versus 2014. So our experience in the lower tertiary in particular, we're getting better and better at understanding it and driving costs down. We're encouraged by what we've got at Anchor. We've got some appraisal work that's undergoing there.

We've got another potential hub development with a group of fields that we had put together with a couple of partners in the industry to try to create a hub class development. But this is a work in progress for us to make sure we can have a resource cost balance to make these projects attractive to meet our thresholds. I'm comfortable we'll be able to do that. It's just we were pushed with Buckskin and Moccasin and you are seeing others make similar choices if it doesn't quite fit relative to their alternatives.

JASON GAMMEL: Appreciate those thoughts, John. If I could just ask a real quick follow-up, the $1.1 billion writedown that you had in the upstream, are you able to provide any split between exploration and depreciation on that?

JOHN WATSON: Why don't I let Pat give you a little bit of color on some of those because, you're right, it's important to know which -- it does hit multiple lines on the income statement and you saw that those numbers were up a little bit.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. So I would just say for the full year, if you look at the income statement, the special items that are categorized under exploration expense would be about $1.1 billion, and if you look at the full year for DD&A off the income statement, the special items amount to about $3.5 billion.

JASON GAMMEL: That's great. Thanks very much, folks.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. I think you're going to get 17 different questions on the same theme, but just you talked about $20 billion to $24 billion of CapEx in 2017 and 2018 and I think on the last call, you mentioned a slower rate of growth, 1% to 1.5%. Obviously, that rate of growth would also help project execution and hopefully costs will come down.

If you were to go down to a lower number of terminal CapEx for a period, maybe just talk a bit about the growth implications beyond 2017, how would it affect the growth rate? And then I have a follow-on.

JOHN WATSON: I'm not sure I'll be able to answer that fully here. I think we will probably give you -- we will give you a more complete answer when we get to March when we have a chance to run through it. But I would just say if you look at growth not just through 2017, but through 2018, we feel pretty good about it and that's largely a function of the projects we have in flight.

In 2018, you'll have a full year of production obviously from our big LNG projects, which you won't have in 2017. We also have other projects that remain under construction now that will come on during that period, projects like Hebron in Canada and Bigfoot and others that will come on in that window. So we'll have continuing momentum from those projects and we'll be ramping up our shale activity during that period, notably in the Permian.

So I think the profile will be attractive beyond 2017. Now, ultimately, the cumulative effect of the reductions in capital, if they persist at a low level, will be felt. But I think we will have a little more resilience than people think. Now, that's other things being equal, depending upon where prices are, depending upon asset sales and things of that sort.

But in terms of what sort of spend do you need to sustain production indefinitely, that will be a function of a lot of things, notably the cost environment that we see. I do think that our position in the Permian gives us a little bit of an advantage over others during this period because you've seen some of the numbers we've given you previously. We have the capability to ramp that up and mitigate some of the declines.

So even if we see a slight increase in our base decline, which has been tracking at under 2%, even if that goes up a little bit, we should be able to substantially mitigate a lot of that through the activity that we have in the shale. But we will try and give you a little longer term outlook in our upcoming meeting in March, if that's okay.

ED WESTLAKE: And then the follow-on is on the OpEx and SG&A part of that reduction of 13% to 18% from $61 billion down to a lower number. Obviously, the market helps give you some OpEx and then there's some structural changes that you've made, some difficult decisions. Should we think that there's another big structural shift that you can make to maybe even outpace the market in terms of OpEx and SG&A reduction say into 2017?

JOHN WATSON: Well, we're working really hard and we're pulling all levers. Obviously, the cost in goods and services in our procurement group is having a fair degree of success. I will say we've had more success in the US than internationally, number one. And so we'll continue to drive that hard. That's just a function of contracts and the competitive environment overseas. So one, we'll be working that very hard. We'll be working additional efficiencies.

Just as an example, we have -- we still have reorganizations in flight, so our employee count was down about 3200 between the end of 2014 to the end of 2015. There are another 4000 coming this year and a lot of that work is ongoing right now. So we're being careful. We're pretty thoughtful about the way we do this sort of work to make sure that we keep the right people in our organization for the longer term, but the reality is activity is likely to be lower and we do have a number of projects that will be ramping down and that we're going to work to be fair about how we do that so that we keep a lot of the great talent that we have that's been working around the world. But there's no question, we're looking at organizations and have a number of reorganizations in flight. So our desire is to keep moving that.

Now I will say on a dollar basis, when you are growing production and bringing on new assets, you have operating expense that you will incur. That's why we gave you the unit OpEx number, but we drove that one down. It will be -- there's still some final allocations for what goes in the 10-K and the oil and gas disclosure, but it's down over $2 a barrel and I think that general trend, we're going to continue to drive that number down.

Remember, in our OpEx, 40% of our OpEx is downstream and our downstream had record performance this year and as you know, they've had restructuring underway for some time and it is not that they are immune from some of the efforts we have to reduce costs, but I don't think you'll see a structural shift in our downstream costs. The corporate center we've obviously looked at and made some significant changes. A lot of people left the payroll in December and so those benefits will be felt and the ongoing work that I've described in the upstream.

So my message is we're driving it hard, but we are trying to be thoughtful so that we keep the talent we need for the long haul in the organization.

ED WESTLAKE: Makes sense. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, Evercore ISI Group.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: I wanted to get some clarity on 0% to 4% growth production and the point that John made a few minutes ago about higher decline rates and specifically is it reasonable to assume that we're going to have growth this year from the United States, Africa and Australia and declines elsewhere? Is that the accurate way to think about it?

JOHN WATSON: Africa, Australia and the United States? I think that is a pretty good way to look at it. We tend to look at it by project, but we do have obviously the shale and tight that's growing and ongoing rampup in the Deepwater. Obviously the projects in Australia and then Angola and volume from Angola -- from Angola LNG. So I think that's a pretty good characterization of it, yes.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. And then also, John, on the neutral zone, there's been some more commentary on progress and so my question is the progress real to your knowledge and if it is -- if we're seeing progress underway, what period of time could those fields return to full production if in fact there was movement? Meaning is this something we should think about in terms of weeks or months or quarters? So just an update there would be appreciated.

JOHN WATSON: I'm sorry. I missed the first part of it. Which locations?

DOUG TERRESON: John, on the neutral zone, there's been some commentary --.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, in the Partitioned Zone. Look, I gave you guys a long explanation last quarter. The fields, they are still shut in and there's been ongoing dialogue between the Saudis and the Kuwaitis. And as I described before, there's plenty of incentive to bring those fields back online and I probably have to leave it there.

What I will tell you, implicit in our assumption is about a midyear startup. That's sort of -- the middle of that range includes a midyear startup, but remember 2014 production was about 80,000 barrels a day. When you start up midyear, you don't start up at 80,000, you start out at something lower than that because the facilities have been mothballed and preserved for a period of time. So that's what's reflected.

To the extent that agreement is reached and there have been discussions, to the extent agreement is reached and it started up sooner, it'll be to the higher end of that range and to the extent that it continues, the bottom of the range is zero if they don't start up at all this year.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Fair enough, John. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning, everybody. John, I know I've tried this one before, but in light of the further collapse in oil prices, I wanted to ask you again about growth versus growth per share. What's really behind my question is further investing in a highly uncertain environment and what are, I'm guessing, potentially sub-economic assets, is there an argument just for outright deferral and outright declines that can be picked up again through share buybacks if indeed oil prices did recover absent any major capital commitments? I'm just wondering philosophically how you think about that given the potential risk to your credit rating that we stand right now.

JOHN WATSON: Doug, actually, I think it's a fair question. The message I've been trying to convey is that we're dramatically cutting investment going forward. We all have to make estimates of what oil and gas prices will be going forward, but in terms of longer cycle projects, we aren't initiating. We aren't initiating any. As I've described, we've got some momentum in the system from projects under construction, but we are -- you are going to see us preferentially favor short cycle investments, and if they don't meet our hurdles, we won't invest.

Taken to the extreme, we're not just going to invest to hold volume. We're going to invest where we think we can get good returns and so we've repurchased shares in the past and we'll do that again. We won't fund opportunities that we don't think will be effective for the Company. And you and I can both put some hindsight on some of the things that we and others in the industry have put money in right now, but we're tightly scrutinizing what we're spending right now. And I hope I can make that really clear to you.

That's indicative of the kind of choices we made with Buckskin/Moccasin. It's indicative of the kind of changes we've made with a big development in the North Sea. That's the direction that we're going. Again, trying to balance our expectations for the forward curve.

DOUG LEGGATE: I appreciate the answer, John. I know it's not fun for anyone right now, but my follow-up is really -- I don't know who wants to take this, but it's on the asset sales. There seems to be -- everybody and their grandmother seems to be looking to sell assets right now. Just wondering if you could characterize how you see the depth of the market and whether or not you think you can still execute on that program. I will leave it there. Thanks.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, that's a real good question. In fact, I think your point is spot on. I think it's a terrible market to be trying to sell most assets out there, particularly obviously oil-related assets and that's why I've been pretty circumspect around asset sales. We sold $11 billion over the last two years, but we're giving you a 5 to 10 for the next two years in the numbers that I've given you. And from a strategic point of view, there are some opportunities out there that I think will be tough to execute, and if we can't execute them, we won't sell them.

If you look at the kinds of things we have sold, we've gotten very good value. So for example, the last two years, there was a lot of strength in the infrastructure market selling pipelines, for example. And on strategy grounds and on valuation grounds, we felt that we were going to limit our investments in the pipeline business to those that are critical to our upstream and downstream sector and we could sell those. Things like Caltex Australia, we thought values were very strong and assets had -- we've been very well aligned with them, but they were heading off potentially in a growth direction and we felt that, from our strategic point of view, that it would be best to exit when we did.

So we've been very careful and I can tell you the assets going forward, we don't advertise them, but if you look at the ones where there's information in the public domain, I think you'll see that those are assets where there are potential buyers out there at good value. So I think your admonition is a very good one and it's why we haven't put big numbers out there.

DOUG LEGGATE: Appreciate it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, guys. John, you answered the Tengiz question before, yet are there any FIDs that are currently baked into 2016 and your 2017 to 2018 budget ranges and I guess as it relates to CapEx? How much flexibility is there to open or reprice contracts within projects post-FID? It appears to be there's more flexibility than at least what we had perceived.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, it's a good question. Obviously, for any project we had in flight, we went back to all the project teams and created an expectation that they will look to try to capture cost reductions. In some cases, where you have -- where you bid contracts and the terms and conditions are fixed, you are where you are. But on anything where you have not taken FID, you have some flexibility to go back to the providers of those services. And that's why we've delayed our costs.

Part of the recycle of projects is to see if there's a different development scheme and things like that. For example, Rosebank has a different development scheme, but part of it is also to be sure you can capture the cost reductions that are available -- that might be available in the marketplace, and sometimes you have to just say we're not going do this if we don't get better costs and that tends to focus partners and others. So we expect to see declining breakevens as a result of those initiatives both to reframe projects in some cases, or to try to drive costs out.

In terms of what we've got actually planned, most of the effort -- most of the things that we would call FIDs are really things like infield drilling. So for example, the next phase of drilling at Agbami, the next stage of drilling at Jack/St. Malo, which are utilizing existing rigs and drilling off of existing -- to support existing infrastructure.

In terms of big, new greenfield projects, it's relatively few. There are some that could be in the budget, but it's going to depend on that price/cost balance I've been talking about, and that's why I say we have significant flexibility going forward as we complete things like Gorgon, Wheatstone, Mafumeira Sul, Angola LNG and others.

EVAN CALIO: Great. So it sounds like they're not currently in the budget [Company note: The plan does include funding for the Wellhead Pressure Management and Future Growth Project at Tengiz in Kazakhstan. This comment was not addressed by management during the call]. Just a follow-up question on a smaller item. Are the startup volumes at Gorgon, are they at spot or contract pricing and can you give us any color or update on the spot LNG market and whether you see an ability to term up any incremental uncontracted Gorgon volumes and I'll leave it at that?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, in general, the sales would be under contract. In fact, you've probably seen recently, we have signed a couple of additional HOAs. We've said all along that we thought that it's appropriate to have about 85% under long-term contract for Gorgon and Wheatstone and with those HOAs, assuming those turn into SPAs, we'll be over 80%. So we feel pretty good about that and those are medium-term type contracts that we've put in place. So we feel good about it. But during the rampup, we've got contracts that are available for these volumes.

Now as far as the overall LNG market, it's lousy when you look at the spot -- at spot cargoes and prices. And I expect we're going to go through a challenging -- as an industry -- we're going to go through a challenging period for any volumes that will be sold spot into the marketplace.

EVAN CALIO: Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Good morning, gentlemen. Question, you've talked kind of indirectly a bit about your view towards the short cycle on the US onshore in the near term and I appreciate some of that color, but can you talk about trends and activity levels and volumes, and particularly in the Permian? And I guess just in a broader sense how you look to manage the short cycle spend over the near to medium term? It sounds like it's clearly taking preference over long cycle spend, but what's dictating the difference between spending $3 million or $2 billion or $1.5 billion or so on? How do you manage that over the medium term?

JOHN WATSON: It's a fair question. The short answer is there's some judgment that we're applying. We have been on a pathway in the Permian of first assessing what we have. So we've been drilling both vertical and horizontal wells. Over the last year, we've really converted our entire program to horizontal wells and really getting -- an overused term -- but getting our factory model in place. And we've done that. And our costs are now very competitive with some of the best in the business. So that is taking place. We want to continue that effort.

Our view is not that prices are going to stay at the low range they are today, but part of living within your means is limiting just how many rigs you deploy. We've got 6 operated rigs today. We've got 14 NOJV rigs that are operating today and we think that's about the right balance. We have flexibility to move up and what I've told our people, if they stay on the cost trajectory that they are, we're going to look to fund them.

The economics in some of the best areas at strip-type prices work. They are not as good as we like at higher prices, but they work. And so that obviously is guiding us, but I would hate to lose the momentum that we have in the Permian with some of the cost-reduction efforts we have underway.

We've told you we've got 3000 locations that we think meet economic threshold at $50, so obviously prices aren't $50 today, but it's indicative of the strength of the portfolio that we have.

RYAN TODD: Great. I appreciate that. Then maybe just one stepback question. We spend a lot of time these days talking about how rough everything is and all the costs that are having to be cut. But maybe if we tick around and just look at the other side, can you address any positives or opportunities that you are seeing? Resetting the cost structure is clearly one, but anything that you are seeing emerge as you look towards your position in your business for the next cycle, some of the positive things, whether it's resource capture, or fiscal terms or any other opportunities that are a silver lining on what we're seeing right now?

JOHN WATSON: Well, thank you for a silver-lining question. We're looking for this internally too. You are right; it is very tough times. A couple thoughts that I will give you. One, I think the cost reductions we're going after, most of them will be permanent. For example, the efficiencies that we've gained in our drilling, those are permanent regardless of what happens to rig rates going forward, so whether it's the Deepwater that I talked about earlier or onshore, so that's number one.

Number two, I think the benefits that we're taking on in some of our organizations and some of our structures, I think a lot of that will be permanent. And I think we've undervalued what simplicity in organizational structures can provide. So obviously we're taking out some layers. We've got rolling reorganizations that are being implemented around the world and I think that simplicity and clarity will be a positive for the business.

In terms of resource capture, there are better opportunities today than there might have been a year ago and the balance between what I will say the expectations and value of resources getting better aligned, so there are opportunities emerging. Our priority is obviously the things I've been talking about this morning, but we are in a resource business and you do want to be attentive to the opportunities that are out there.

RYAN TODD: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Neil Mehta, Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: John, you made the comment that non-OPEC supply has been relatively resilient over the course of the year. You also made the point that the base decline rate was less than 2% in your portfolio over the course of this year. How does that compare relative to history and as you look at 2016, how do you think your base decline rate looks like towards the midpoint of guidance?

JOHN WATSON: In general, the two are somewhat related. Our base decline has been good because we've operated very reliably and we've actually gotten quite efficient in our business. So we have been able to mitigate the declines. We've also flagged though that with a lower level of spending on base business, infill drilling in places like Bakersfield and elsewhere, you are going to see declines slightly higher, so that's why we've suggested that and we do expect to see that across the industry. The history has shown during downturns like this you can see an increase of a percent or two industrywide in that base decline. So that is -- I think that's clear.

In terms of the resiliency that we've seen in production, it's partly related to that, but, to me, it's been -- if you look at 2015, the impact of projects that were in flight has probably been more than we, as an industry, anticipated. So we're not the only ones with Jack/St. Malos and Bibiyanas and other projects that are under construction that are coming up.

Secondly, of course, you've had the impact of hedges in the unconventional business and the brief uptick that took place in the middle of 2015 in prices did allow some additional hedges. So you've still got a few hedges that are out there in the industry in 2016 that will allow some level of activity. But increasingly all that is wearing off as all the projects come online, as base business declines start to take over and as hedges are no longer available. So I think that's why you are seeing those volumes.

The other piece that I've consistently said has been underrepresented is the stress around the world, the stress on host governments, the stress on those government partners, national oil companies and others. And you've seen announcements that have been made because while we tend to think of living within our means as a function of forward capital spend; for host governments, living within their means is social, the choice between social spending and reinvesting in the business. And you've seen some of those choices play out in the guidance that's been given by host governments to national oil companies in certain countries.

So I think the cumulative weight of all this action will tend to bring things into balance. You still have potential sources of supply out there. Obviously, Iran is bringing volumes on, but I think the trend is inexorable.

NEIL MEHTA: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: John, you've part answered this question. My original question was going back to the volumes. It looks like quite a big percentage range, but, in barrels a day, it's only about 100,000 barrels a day for 2016. That's to say the 0% to 4% range of uncertainty. You part answered the question because you addressed the Partitioned Neutral Zone. Can you talk a bit about the variances in the other elements, so how much volume potentially variance is there in the startups, the divestments, the price effects and the spend levels because it feels like that 100,000 variance actually is not that wide? It seems big in percentage, but not so much in volume. Thanks.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, that's a very good observation. The range is widening and you've got multiple moving parts in the business. Let me see if I can give you a little bit of color. Just if you look at the difference between $30 and $60 per barrel, just on price effects, it can be over 100,000 barrels a day for that alone. And so you are right; there is a range there and what happens in a place like Indonesia, for example, for a given level of spend, and you have cost barrel reimbursement, the lower the price, the more barrels you get. And these curves aren't all linear in different locations around the world. So there is a considerable variability from price alone.

If you think about rampup of production, I will give you an example on Gorgon. Gorgon, the three trains at Gorgon, our share is a little over 200,000 barrels a day. So if you think about each train as 65,000 to 70,000 barrels a day, and we've said that we expect production to commence within a few weeks. There's an industry curve -- there are industry averages around a rampup schedule that takes place over a period of months. To the extent you're at the high end of that range where you have a smooth startup, we have the well capacity. So you could have a very rapid rampup.

Our people in Australia don't know what they don't know and so we have taken more of an average approach. And to the extent you encounter something unusual, you can be on the downside of that. Our people at Angola LNG at this point are pretty gun shy because we've had challenges, but that's 60,000 barrels a day and we've said that we expect to be introducing gas later this quarter and to have cargoes in the second quarter, but there's variability around that and the rampup.

And so all of those -- and by the way, there's a second train at Gorgon as well later this year. So all of those can impact the pace of development. And then there's just the outright spend that's a function of rigs and activity. I think it's fair to say that if we keep seeing prices in the low $30s, we're going to drop rigs as the price moves on.

And then the last piece, and it's one that I won't provide much in the way of specifics, is really divestments. Because we've indicated, for example, that our shallow water, our shelf activities that we have packages for sale out there and those have some volumes attached to them and then there are some another potential assets in the upstream that are under consideration. But it really depends on getting value and the timing of those and so that is why you get a range. And you are correct; the range can be broader than indicated there. But I felt if I gave you any broader a range, you'd say this wasn't very helpful.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Alastair Syme, Citi.

ALASTAIR SYME, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: John, can I just come back to your comment on the divestment market? You said it's a terrible market for selling assets; therefore I guess it must be a great market for buying. I appreciate the balance sheet constraints, but what leads you away from temptation?

JOHN WATSON: What leads me away from temptation? I know you've heard me over the years, but if I just -- just to ground everyone that's on the phone -- we've said over many years that we're in the resource business, it's declining and we'll replace resource through a combination of exploration, discovered resource participation and acquisitions and Chevron has done that over time.

Our growth position has been pretty good and so M&A hasn't been a particular priority for us. But we are mindful of the opportunities that are out there. I wouldn't want you to think our focus is anything other than getting the projects we have under construction and completing the work we have and ramping up the assets that we have because I think we've got a pretty nice business profile going forward.

But we do need to look at what is out there and we're going to be value-driven, but there are opportunities that could present themselves in the current market, so we'll be mindful of that. But remember, we're trying to grow the dividend and invest for the long term here and so we're not driven -- we're not particularly transaction-driven at any period of time. I have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Asit Sen, CLSA.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, COWEN & CO.: Thanks. Good morning. A quick one on shale, if I may, and tight oil. On slide 23 of the presentation, the year-over-year production bridge, shale and tight oil, is showing an impressive 44,000 barrels a day in 2015. What was the split between Permian and Vaca Muerta and also can we get a full-year 2015 shale and tight oil production for Chevron?

JOHN WATSON: The increase, of the 44,000, about two-thirds of it was Permian/Wolfcamp and the rest of it was between Argentina and some of our Appalachia activity. And in terms of what's forward-looking, I think I'm going to leave that to the security analyst meeting that we've got coming up in March where we'll give you a little deeper insight into our work in the Permian and kind of the range of rampup that we could see there. And we've done that every year and we will update you this year based on both the cost improvements that we've seen and then the realities of the price market that we're in. Okay.

ASIT SEN: Thanks, John. And since we have you, one macro question on Iran. Any early thoughts on Iran rampup and are you involved in any discussion, as has been mentioned by your European peers?

JOHN WATSON: Well, I will answer the second question first, no. We're not able to do that so we don't. I would just say that we've got our hands pretty well full. We always look at opportunities when it's legal for us to do so around the world, but I don't have any particular insight into Iran. You have seen the range of speculation around their ability to ramp up production. Some have speculated that it's going to be a little harder than advertised, but I don't have any particular insight to offer you and perhaps others can help you with that.

Okay, I would like to thank all of you for being on the call today. We appreciate your interest in our Company and your participation. We look forward to seeing you at our March meeting in New York. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's fourth-quarter 2015 earnings conference (technical difficulty).

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160130ec1t00335
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  Chevron  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,016 words
   PD
30 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter 2015 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. John Watson. Please go ahead.

JOHN WATSON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, our Vice President and CFO who you know very well, and Frank Mount, our General Manager of Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on our website.

Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you read that cautionary statement that is on slide 2.

I will now turn the call over to Pat who will take you through our financials briefly. Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: All right, thanks John. I will be presenting four slides on third-quarter results. Our normal earnings and production variance slides are available in the appendix section of the presentation which is available on our website.

Starting then with slide 3, an overview of our financial performance. Third-quarter earnings were $2 billion, or $1.09 per diluted share. Excluding foreign exchange and impairments, earnings totaled $1.9 billion, or $1.01 per share.

On this basis third-quarter results were modestly better than second quarter despite a much weaker oil market. This reconciliation is also available in the appendix.

Cash from operations for the quarter was $5.4 billion. Our debt ratio at quarter-end was just under 19%.

During the third quarter we paid $2 billion in dividends. Earlier in the week we declared $1.07 per share dividend payable in the fourth quarter. This takes our 2015 annual dividend to $4.28 per share and makes 2015 the 28th consecutive year where we have increased annual per share dividend payments.

Turning to slide 4 cash generated from operations was $5.4 billion during the third quarter and nearly $15 billion year to date. Downstream cash generation strength was sustained in the third quarter while Upstream cash flow fell, commensurate with an approximate 20% drop in global oil prices between quarters.

As of September 30 working capital FX reduced 2015 operating cash flow by $2.3 billion. Year-to-date proceeds from asset sales were $5.4 billion, bringing our total over the last seven quarters to more than $11 billion. We are tracking very well against our four-year asset divestment target of $15 billion.

Cash capital expenditures were $6.8 billion for the quarter, $800 million lower than second quarter. Year-to-date cash capital expenditures were $22 billion, down $3.6 billion or 14% compared to the same period in 2014.

At quarter-end our cash and cash equivalents were $13.2 billion and our net debt position was $22.6 billion. Debt issuance through nine months has amounted to $8 billion.

Slide 5 compares current-quarter earnings with the same period last year. Third-quarter 2015 earnings were approximately $3.6 billion lower than third-quarter 2014 results.

Upstream earnings decreased $4.6 billion between quarters, virtually all of this related to significantly lower realizations between periods. Downstream results increased by $824 million, primarily driven by higher margins and favorable foreign exchange effects, partially offset by the absence of third-quarter 2014 gains on asset sales. The variance in the other segment was mainly lower environmental reserve additions, in particular the absence of a reserve taken last year in the third quarter related to a closed mining operation.

I will now compare results for the third-quarter 2015 with the second quarter of 2015. Third-quarter earnings were $1.5 billion higher than second-quarter results. Upstream earnings increased by $2.3 billion, primarily reflecting the absence of second-quarter impairments and other related charges worth $2.6 billion.

Lower realizations reduced earnings between quarters but a favorable swing in foreign exchange and lower exploration expenses were largely offsetting. Downstream earnings decreased $745 million, mainly due to the absence of a $1.7 billion in asset sale gains recorded in the second quarter.

The current quarter also saw stronger margins and volumes, particularly in the US, favorable foreign exchange impacts as well as lower operating expenses and positive timing effects in the face of declining prices. The variance in the other segment was primarily unfavorable tax items, partially offset by lower corporate charges.

John will now provide an update on our current priorities and focus areas.

JOHN WATSON: Okay, thanks Pat. Turning to slide 7, I would like to start by reinforcing that our priorities, financial priorities are unchanged. Our first priority is to maintain the dividend and grow it as a pattern of earnings and cash flow permit.

As Pat mentioned we announced our quarterly dividend earlier this week and are very proud of the fact that we've increased the annual per share payout for 28 consecutive years. Back in March we committed to delivering free cash flow to cover the dividend in 2017. At the time the futures market was envisioning $70 prices in 2017.

Today the futures market is lower but our intent remains the same. Our goal is to balance our cash equation by completing projects under construction and reducing capital spend and operating expenses to levels consistent with the current market conditions.

We will also continue to divest assets where we can obtain good value. We will achieve this while operating all our businesses safely and reliably.

I will address each topic on this slide on the slides that follow. First, moving to an overview of the market it is clear that low prices have reduced upstream earnings for the sector and for Chevron we're no exception. Prices are low because the market is producing more than consumers want but the markets are showing signs of rebalancing.

Using Wood Mac data this chart depicts worldwide liquid supply with the black line and demand in red. The blue represents the shortfall from or surplus to inventory. In the early part of the decade the pattern was clear, supply could not keep up with demand in part because of supply disruptions in the Middle East and North Africa.

The success of shale in the US and some growing production from Iraq allowed the market to rebalance for the first several months of 2014. However, note the spike in production when the Saudis increased production and the shale growth continued its surge in late 2014.

The resultant 2 million barrels per day surplus has pushed prices down. Suppliers are adjusting.

World production peaked in turn down last month. US production, particularly shales, has peaked and is now in decline. We expect this trend to continue and accelerate at current prices.

Demand is strong as low prices provide stimulus to consumers in the US and elsewhere, leading to annual growth of 1 million to 1.5 million barrels per day. Markets will likely rebalance at some point next year. Those seasonal demand patterns are apt to blur the exact timing.

With a new equilibrium will come price recovery which is one of the levers that will help balance our cash equation. While we're confident in a price recovery the timing of course is uncertain. We're taking actions that will allow Chevron to compete effectively in a low price environment while positioning us effectively for value growth over the longer term.

Turning to slide 9, a second lever to help us balance cash flow is volume growth. As most are aware we expect to see a significant inflection point over the next two years as a number of major capital projects move from being cash consumers to cash generators. Gorgon and Wheatstone are obvious contributors but the list is long starting with Lianzi in West Africa.

Over the next several quarters we expect a progression of startups that will include Angola LNG, Mafumeira Sul, Moho Nord, Sonam, all these are in West Africa. Chuandongbei in China, the Bangka development in Indonesia, Alder in the North Sea, the Chevron Phillips chemical project on the US Gulf Coast and of course three trains at Gorgon and two trains at Wheatstone.

Our strong shale and tight portfolio, particularly in the Permian gives us low-cost, short cycle investment opportunities that nicely supplement production growth from the major capital projects. In the shale and tight class are focuses on highgrading our investment opportunities to maximize returns and cash flow. We like our portfolio diversity which when market conditions improve will provide growth opportunities.

Turning to slide 10, we're in the final stages of commissioning systems to allow startup of train 1 at Gorgon. At the plant our focus is on starting up the process units ahead of commencing liquefaction and LNG cooldown cargo is planned to arrive in mid-December to assist in cooling down the LNG tanks and associated facilities prior to first LNG export.

The Jansz-Io field subsea infrastructure is fully complete. We have opened the first two wells to the Jansz pipeline, confirming the full operability of these subsea systems. Our current outlook for loading the first LNG cargo is early 2016.

We are continuing to make good progress on trains 2 and 3 with all train 2 and nine of 13 train 3 modules installed and hookups underway. At Wheatstone all subsea infrastructure and over 100 kilometers of flow lines have been installed. Hook up and commissioning of the offshore platform continues on plan.

All nine wells are drilled to the top of the reservoir with four of nine wells now completed and subsea trees installed. At the plant 17 of the 24 modules required for first LNG have been delivered and all refrigeration compressors and gas turbine generators have been installed. Installation of all pipe racks and electrical switchgear buildings on the product loading facility is now complete as is startup of the power systems and the plant operations center.

We are still targeting the first LNG cargo by year-end 2016. However, we continue to work to mitigate Wheatstone's schedule pressures from previous delays and module delivery.

We've posted some new pictures today. And I encourage you to look at them on our investor website at Chevron.com.

Turning to slide 11, another lever to deliver free cash flow is reduced capital spending. As indicated during our March Analyst Day we have significant flexibility in our capital program as we complete projects under construction. Given the near-term price outlook we are exercising more discretion in pacing projects that have not reached final investment decision.

We are also negotiating cost reductions from suppliers. Overall our investment programs are being set at levels that will enable us to complete and ramp up the projects under construction, fund high return, short cycle investments, preserve options for viable long cycle projects and finally ensure safe, reliable operations.

We expect capital exploratory spend in 2016 to be in the range of $25 billion to $28 billion, down from $35 billion this year. We expect further reductions in 2017 and 2018 into the $20 billion to $24 billion range depending on business conditions.

Of specific note the plan does include funding for the wellhead pressure management and future growth project at Tengiz in Kazakhstan which has undergone rigorous engineering and readiness reviews based on our learnings from other projects.

Turning to slide 12 to another cash flow improvement lever, we're working on reducing costs across the Company and are beginning to see the results. Compared to prior year-to-date periods enterprise operating costs are 7% lower, in the third-quarter to third-quarter comparison are 12% lower.

On another basis year-to-date Upstream unit operating expenses are down 13% versus last year. At this point we've identified spend reductions of approximately $4 billion on an annual full run rate basis. About half of this is coming through organizational reviews and portfolio rationalization and about half working through the supply chain.

On the organizational side lower investment activity, portfolio changes and efficiency reviews across the Upstream, Gas and Midstream and the corporate and service company groups are expected to result in employee reductions of between 6,000 to 7,000. A similar number of contractor reductions are anticipated over this same period.

Supply chain initiatives including rate reductions, greater equipment standardization, project re-scoping and timing optimization are expected to contribute approximately $2 billion also on an annual run rate basis. An example, we're leveraging our enterprise spend for drill pipe across the Company and we're seeing cost reductions of up to 35%. These supply chain benefits will show up as lower operating expense, lower capital expenditures and lower cost of goods sold.

Finally, we're seeing efficiency improvements throughout the organization which are driving improved value capture. As an example, in the last year we had seen the drilling cycle time from spud to rig release reduced by 55% within our Permian horizontal drilling program.

Turning to slide 13, a final cash flow lever is asset sales. These are a normal part of portfolio work and contribute proceeds to help manage the balance sheet. We divest assets that no longer have a strategic fit or where we no longer see the cost effective application of our technology, where future investments do not compete for capital within our portfolio and where we can obtain good value. So there are a number of drivers on asset sales.

As you know we made a commitment to generate $15 billion from the asset sales program from 2014 through 2017 and over the last seven quarters we've made real good progress and achieved $11 billion of this goal. From today out through 2017 we could see another $10 billion in sales proceeds. There is a range around this new expectation because of uncertainties on future market conditions, we're only going to sell assets where we can obtain good value.

Turning to slide 14, we expect to end this year within the production guidance range we provided back in January. Over the next couple of years you will see the growth projects we've talked about for some time come onstream.

Gorgon and Wheatstone and Angola LNG are collectively expected to provide the majority of our volume growth. This growth will not be realized at one time as there is a ramp up over three years and there is variability depending upon start date. We expect offshore projects, the majority coming from West Africa, also to be a significant part of our growth.

Our projected shale and tight ramp up is steady though the current price environment is expected to lead to a slower pace of growth than we anticipated at our March Analyst Day. Similarly, our future base business spending is influenced by the current environment and its impact on economics and partner funding capabilities. We anticipate lower base business spending and as a result expect to see higher decline rates compared to our more recent pattern.

Under these assumptions we're anticipating a 13% to 15% increase in production from year-end 2015 to a range of between 2.9 million and 3 million barrels per day in 2017. In 2018 we expect volume growth momentum to continue largely because of project ramp up schedules.

Note this range excludes the impact of divestments. Their specific timing is difficult to predict.

Actual production growth is also dependent upon production sharing contract effects and the Partitioned Zone restart timing. We will issue further guidance for 2016 production as we normally would in January.

Turning to slide 15 that brings me back where I started. We like the go-forward prospect for energy as we are constructive on the long-term price outlook but sober about the current realities of lower prices. We have consistent and clear financial priorities.

We are taking significant action to balance the cash equations and cover the dividend with free cash flow by 2017. We expect to deliver volume growth and emerge on the other side of this downturn leaner and better. All of our actions are geared toward delivering value through dividend growth and stock price appreciation.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We're now ready to take some questions.

Keep in mind that we have a full queue, so please try to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up if necessary. We will do our best to get all of your questions answered. Jonathan, please open the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. John, thanks for the full update here. My first question is that one of the criticisms I continue to hear from investors about big oil is that most of the companies in the industry are just trying to manage to dividend coverage at a point in the cycle rather than through the cycle.

And I fully appreciate Chevron has a full stable of capital projects over these past few years so the spending flexibility is very high. But I was hoping you could just help us tie this new capital spending guidance to what kind of underlying capital spending would be required to keep production flat or what kind of long-term growth rate do you think Chevron could achieve using this lower capital base?

JOHN WATSON: You know it's a fair question. We do try to invest through the cycle. We got into a period at the early part of this decade where we had some good projects that were frankly stacked up on top of one another.

We thought it was the right time to take Gorgon forward. We had good contracts in place and frankly it was somewhat countercyclical when we started in 2009, very late in 2009. Wheatstone very similar, we thought it was a good market and we needed to move that one as well.

We also had Gulf of Mexico projects that from following the moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico came on we started at the same time. So we went through a period of capital spend that was pretty high. We thought these were very good projects but there's no doubt that we were going through a period of heavy capital spend and we kept our balance sheet pretty strong to enable us to withstand the ups and downs that we see in the market.

Now we saw prices rise dramatically and then we've seen them come back down a little harder than we thought. So we do have to manage through this cycle but I think we've been able to weather that pretty well. We are completing the projects that we've got.

We're working to preserve the options that we have on some of the nice opportunities we have going forward. But we do have to live within our means here. And if you look at, as you know very well, when we look at the pattern of dividends it's a nice smooth pattern with increases over 28 years.

The pattern of earnings is a lot more volatile during that period depending upon commodity prices. So we do invest through the cycle with some of these long projects. We have to be able to do that.

But we have had a period of heavy spend that we've had to go through. So there is an adjustment when prices go from $100 to $50 and we're just having to deal with that. But certainly we're investing through the cycle but making some adjustments to deal with the low prices we've got.

PHIL GRESH: Is there a specific growth rate you think you can achieve with this new spending base?

JOHN WATSON: Certainly we're going to see disproportionately strong growth through 2017, frankly into 2018 that we think will be very good. Long-term, overall hydrocarbons are growing in the 1% to 1.5% range and so that's probably a more reasonable expectation going forward. But frankly we make our investment decisions based on what we can do that is economic.

If you look at the history for companies our size, growing at something significantly greater than where aggregate demand for oil and gas is growing is pretty hard to do. And frankly we'll be guided by what we think we can do economically. We will give you a little bit more information on what we think post-2017 as we finalize our business plan.

We're still grinding --the reason we gave you a range on some of these capital numbers is we're still grinding through that business plan right now to be sure we strike the right balance. And that level of spending will dictate what the growth will be in some of the out years.

Just so you have some confidence, though, I made specific comments on the future growth project, the wellhead pressure management project, in Tengiz as one example of investing through the cycle. And that's a significant project which we're working through final details with government and partner.

But we're doing a lot of early work on the project and that's one as we take final investment decision we won't see the production from that until the next decade. So that and other investments will provide growth going forward.

PHIL GRESH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Hey guys, good morning. John, two questions.

One is really short and let me go for that first. With the cutback in the CapEx you're saying that the base operation decline rate will be higher. I think for the last five years you guys have been about 3% to 4%. Do you have a new number for us?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, actually we've been better than that. Our base business has been more like 1% or it's been less than 2% certainly during that period and we see it being more like 3%. And so frankly if you take just the difference between about 1% and 3% and apply it to our base level of production you get a little bit lower production than you might have seen otherwise.

PAUL CHENG: Excellent. Second one is a little bit more strategic I think. If we look at the hallmark for Chevron has always been under LNG, deepwater megaproject development.

But I think the market is concerned this type of development, the supply cost curve has increasingly to its the last several years at the high-end of the industry and that also that the recent cost division that they have not seen as much comparing to the soft cycle. So the question is do you agree with that view and is concerned that the hallmark of the Company what you're good at and up to be at the high-end of the supply cost curve? And if you sort of agree with that, what initiative that Chevron is taking to try to improve your cost curve position so that they will become say at the top quartile or top half at least?

JOHN WATSON: That is a philosophical question and I will give it a few comments. First I think it's true that onshore costs have come down more than offshore costs. So I think that's just factually true particularly in the United States but also around the world.

So rig rates and service costs, things of that sort. So that certainly is true.

It's also true that some short cycle based business spend traditionally has lower cost once you have infrastructure in place and it's certainly true that some of the shales are low-cost. I think what's important, though, is if you step back and look at the market overall it's a 95 million barrel a day market.

The shales are about 5 million barrels a day and there is a decline curve that's very rapid in the shales but also of course in every other producing asset. It's going to take contributions from all asset classes to meet demand. So we're going to need all forms of supply.

What we're doing is trying to take on cost reductions and get better everywhere to take cost down. And we've been able to do that. We've shown you some charts periodically, and offshore is about 25% of worldwide production, and deepwater production continues to grow and will continue to make contributions to worldwide supply.

But if you look at drilling and completions technology we've talked about things like the single trip multizone frac pack which is just more efficient way of getting in and out of the hole to do work. If you look at ocean bottom nodes work that we're doing, that really gives us better seismic imaging on the ocean floor subsea systems and boosting technology, all these things are bringing cost down.

In fact, in our Gulf of Mexico operations, our deepwater, we've been able to reduce drilling days significantly. Our drilling days per 10,000 feet are down 25% over the last two years. So we've been able to take those costs down.

I think you're also likely to see the work that we did in the Gulf of Mexico to consolidate holdings, for the industry to collaborate to create hub class developments will also help with economies of scale. So I think you'll see bigger hubs, but I think all classes of assets at the current low prices will have some spending that will fall out.

So some of your points are true, but I think you'll see costs over time come down everywhere and of course these projects are over a long period of time. LNG are 40-year projects, so you have a different lifecycle to these things as well. Some of the long cycle LNG tend to be, because they are long cycle, tend to be a little bit lower than in RORs but they have a very long life in cash flow. So they have a little different characteristic to them.

PAUL CHENG: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. Thanks for all of the color. Just on the opening remarks I think you said slower ramp up on projects.

I presume that's going to be LNG just looking at the cartoon which you put in the presentation in terms of LNG volumes. Maybe just a bit of a color around Gorgon and Wheatstone. Thanks.

JOHN WATSON: Well we said that the ramp up would take place over time. The key is getting them started and getting first LNG and then the ramp up will take place over time. So all I was trying to say with the ramp up is they will take place over the next three years.

My comment wasn't so much about the ramp up as it was that there will be a start date. Just in terms of what we're expecting I indicated that Gorgon will see first cargo in the first quarter. I had updates yesterday afternoon on both Gorgon and Wheatstone, I was pleased with the progress that I heard.

I gave you some of the key points that are kind of proof points to where we're headed there. ALNG will start up early next year as well. There's no secret that this has been a challenge as we've worked through some of the engineering issues.

But once that gets started, I think we've addressed some of the engineering issues that we encountered. There were also some technical bulletins that were issued by the technology owner and we took care of those as well during this downtime. So ALNG will start up early next year as well and my update on Wheatstone, the key issue there has been module delivery.

We had some modules out of Malaysia that were late, and the team is working very hard to mitigate schedule there. What I mean by that is with some delay in modules we're really now looking at both construction timing and some of the startup and commissioning work that will need to be done.

We've taken a close look at all the other projects that have been done in Australia and elsewhere on the east coast of Australia and Gorgon and really looking to see if we can take time, taking time out of those schedules by really taking all the best practices that were effective in those projects to keep us back on a fourth-quarter 2016 startup schedule. So the work is progressing well. The point in having a range on production is really that a quarter one way or another when you've got projects that could go up to 200,000 barrels a day at full capacity makes a difference and so it's just reflecting that reality.

ED WESTLAKE: Yes, okay. Second question is on cash flow maybe for Pat or John. So you can see this year you've done $17.2 billion before working capital so you could gross that up and say $23 billion.

Obviously you've got these new projects so they will add cash and your cash CapEx is going down, sorry, your overall group CapEx is going down to $20 billion to $24 billion. So you can see how the dividends are sustainable in sort of this year conditions. So that works fine.

It's still a long way away from the cash flow that was presented a few years back at higher oil prices. So I guess my question is is there anything this year in the cash generation of the Company that you feel has underperformed because I guess the downstream has been pretty strong. Maybe it's startup costs in some of these projects.

JOHN WATSON: Actually I think if you look at our cash flow and the rule of thumb that we gave you for the effect of oil prices was roughly $350 million after-tax and earnings and cash flow for every dollar per barrel. And you multiply that by the change in barrels I think you'd find our cash flow is better than what you might expect by that rule of thumb. Now we're trying to diminish or reduce that rule of thumb by taking on costs and other things to get better at what we do.

But I think you'd find that between those rules of thumb for oil and gas, I think you'd find that it'spretty consistent with that and in fact it's better because our downstream has performed so well. So the grim reality is when you have oil prices in the 40s as we saw in the third quarter as you look across the sector, particularly in the United States, it's tough sledding and if you've got natural gas prices where they are in the US, it's a challenge. But we're taking it on by reducing cost.

You saw some of the pretty aggressive actions that we are taking around the world to size the organization at the right level. And we think if we get some recovery in prices you'll see a nice pop from that. But I can't control prices, I can only control my cost and spend.

ED WESTLAKE: So it's just oil sensitivity. I understand. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Yes, thanks very much. Hi everyone.

You've already touched on a lot of the drivers here, John, but I was just trying to reconcile the new production range of 2.9 to 3.0 relative to the 3.1 million barrels a day that was presented at the Analyst Meeting. And I wasn't really clear whether the Partitioned Zone was included in the 2.9 million to 3.0 million or whether it's out because that's obviously a big reconciling factor. And then how much of it would essentially just be production being pushed into 2018 versus an actual lower production figure from declines?

JOHN WATSON: There are lots of effects that are in there. First off the biggest effect in the change versus what we've talked about previously was my comment on declines. We've taken, depending upon which numbers and the range you want to use, we've taken $15 billion of capital out of the business in the go-forward projections from 2016 and 2017 in total and that impacts, as I said, base declines.

So if you add 2% to the decline that's 100,000 barrels a day over a couple of years. So that's number one.

But to answer your question about the Partitioned Zone, that production a year ago was roughly 80,000 barrels a day. And if you look at where we expected to be in 2017, it was somewhere under 70,000 barrels a day, and that is included in both estimates. We expect to be back online by that time.

I just returned from the Middle East and I'll that tell you this has been pretty perplexing to me why we remain shut in. You have two great allies in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait who are having a disagreement over administrative matters in the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. It's in the Kuwaiti portion of the zone and so they administer work visas, equipment permits and things like that and they stopped issuing them.

So we ended up shutting-in in May and so we've lost the better part of 80,000 barrels a day net to our production. And the reason I think production will come back is because the Kuwaitis themselves are actually being hurt by shutting in a gross amount of 200,000 barrels a day, half of which is theirs. They are hurt, Chevron is hurt but Saudi Arabia is able to increase production elsewhere.

So I think there's motivation for the Kuwaitis to begin issuing work permits and allowing work to continue while whatever disputes are resolved and our plan is for that production to come back by 2017. In terms of other factors that are out there, we are highgrading some of the investment that we're doing in the shales, so while the growth profile will be nice, it will be a little lower. Certainly in the gas area we've curtailed spending.

We have really gotten our cost down very well in the Marcellus. We can compete with anybody there now, but nobody makes money that I'm aware of at $1.50 gas which is where we are now and futures prices remain low. So we can compete with anybody, but for the time being we're scaling back investment there.

So these are the kinds of effects that we've rolled in as well as schedule and timing of projects. A notable change from where we had been previously, of course, is Big Foot which we show no production in 2017.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, that's obviously a big factor. Great.

And John if I could just as a follow-up I think you kind of answered this in your response here but if I'm looking at the capital spend slide from again the Analyst Meeting it was looking at $32 billion or so of capital spending 2016 with some flexibility around that. Is the incremental flexibility that you've identified in the numbers you put forward today mostly coming out of that base investment which is why you're seeing the higher decline curves?

JOHN WATSON: It's a little bit of both. At $70 when we presented the information that we did to you earlier, that was with the expectation that we would be able to take costs out and that certain projects would continue. So we had funding in those out years.

Again some of it was ultimately discretionary around certain projects. Some of that has been removed or deferred in some cases and that is just reflecting the realities that we're seeing lower prices. So there is some large projects but there is also a good chunk of it that's coming in the base investment area.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning everyone. Good morning John.

John, I'm wondering first of all you've given a lot of information this morning. We really appreciate that. So thank you for all the disclosure.

But when we get to 2017 let's assume your prognosis on oil prices or at least the supply-demand balance is a little bit more optimistic, how does Chevron's strategic go-forward view change in terms of perhaps re-upping into another round of large-scale projects of which you clearly have plenty of options versus staying with the short cycle I guess flexibility until this sorts itself out?

What's really at the back of my mind is I'm curious if you feel that you've got a big enough footprint to offer you that kind of flexibility? And I've got a quick follow-up please.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, it's a very fair question. I commented a little bit earlier as you know well, Doug, we went through this period with a number of projects stacked on top of one another. I don't think you'll ever see something like that in our -- it was a series of circumstances that got us in that position.

I don't think you're likely to see that. We do have a good queue of projects. I talked about the Anchor discovery which could mature into a project and we've got others.

So we will take the best of those projects and move them forward but I think on balance you'll see a higher proportion of shorter cycle spend. Five to seven years ago we didn't really have a good understanding of our Permian Basin position for example. So you will see over time additional monies that will go to the shale developments.

And I mentioned that I had some reviews with my business units yesterday, I also had reviews with my four shale organizations which are nicely sharing their successes and the Permian is doing well. I mentioned the Marcellus is doing very well.

The Duvernay in Canada, they've taken the practices and implemented them very quickly to get down the cost curve. And we're working closely with YPF and trying to put those same practices in place. We've delineated, we know where the sweet spots are down there, now we're starting a horizontal drilling program and we expect to get better.

But I think you'll see a more balanced portfolio and I think you'll see projects that will have good economics at moderate prices as we work to standardize and take cost down. So we'll have some optionality in the portfolio and I can't envision having two big LNG projects at the same time. The Tengiz project is a significant capital project but I don't see anything like having two Gorgon and Wheatstones plus several deepwater developments stacked on top of one another.

DOUG LEGGATE: I appreciate the answer, John. My follow-up is really -- is kind of on the headcount reduction and the fact that you are now getting to the point where these major developments are coming on stream. Are there any portfolio consequences of having to amortize or rationalize a smaller headcount across a much larger portfolio? And of course, the tale changes when Gorgon and Wheatstone come on.

So I'm just wondering if outside of the disposals you've given us so far, is there another round of portfolio restructuring that we should maybe look for at some point in Chevron's future? And I'll leave it there. Thanks.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, there are some changes that will happen in the portfolio. First, just a general comment on the people reductions. One of the large areas for reductions is in Australia. As we ramp down these projects, obviously you need fewer people. That was known, and in most cases we had -- Australia has a provision for fixed term employees. So some of those people will be coming off the payroll.

We've got a significant reorganization that's taking place in Angola and frankly, as we've gone through our business units and gone through our portfolio, we have found ways to make our organization simpler. I don't know any other way to say it. So we will be seeing reductions in a lot of different places. Some of them have already happened in the Marcellus, in the North Sea, and in our home offices. So we've seen those kinds of reductions.

There is some portfolio work that some of it I would classify as normal as assets mature. You saw, for example, we sold our Netherland operations. Our view was that the Chad business was sort of on that -- a lot of the value had already been extracted, so we sold out of that business. And so there are assets that get mature where another operator, as you know well, there are smaller companies or others that want to grind out that last little bit of value that may take on opportunities that won't fit in our portfolio, and so sometimes there's a good match for them and we'll sell those.

Those can result in reduced employees and I expect it will. But I would classify that as a normal part of our business.

These reductions don't include any -- the reductions that were forecasted don't include a major portion of the divestitures. The divestiture portion at this point is looked at as maybe 10% of that employee reduction. I would classify it as more routine activity.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks very much, John.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning everybody. You've covered a lot of ground today so thank you.

John, I know other than matching the cash flows improving upon project execution is a key focus for you and Chevron, positive advances in the quarter. Can you discuss the changes you've made here and your confidence that execution will improve as you move through this key execution phase?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, you're right. We are focused on that. Jay Johnson went through some of those in a little bit of detail and Jay of course is really good on projects and I guess I would say there are a couple of things that I would highlight.

I mentioned Angola LNG earlier and that is symptomatic of something that's hit the industry, I think overall, and that is engineering and engineering maturity. And so we simply have to, in order to have a better understanding of what we're going to build, we have to advance engineering further.

So understanding pipe diameter and things down to a more granular level so that we know what materials we're going to need and we can do better cost estimates is I would say number one. And the example we've given is the Tengiz project which is a big one that we'll move forward with here, but that one we're 35% done with the engineering now and we'll be somewhere close to 50% by the time we take final investment decision. So that's number one.

But once you complete the engineering you also have to do more reviews of that engineering and I would say at a higher level taking a look at constructability of facilities so that you don't -- so that you're sure what you build really is what you want. And I'll give you an example. One of the changes we're making in Angola LNG is designing more flexibility in the front end of the plant.

It's an associated gas project and so there's greater variability in feed quality. And I think if we had done more work at the front end perhaps we would have designed that with more flexibility in mind. So those are the kinds of things that we're going to need to do.

We also have to be very cognizant of the contracting work that is -- of the kind of contract that you sign and what incentives are in that contract for the contractor. And that will dictate the level of oversight better.

We're likely, for example, on the Tengiz project to do more in the way of coordinating the activity of subcontractors on that job ourselves. So all of these things I think are going to make us better, not to mention the usual things around quality assurance that the industry has seen and things of that sort. So the answer is yes, we're working on improving execution.

EVAN CALIO: Great. And my second question on Anchor looks like great appraisal results.

Any comments on reservoir quality, size range or next appraisal steps? And maybe even somewhat related to Doug's question before, I mean in a down cycle do you see an advantage in developing these longer cycle assets where you can cement or secure a lower cost structure versus an onshore asset where you've benefited faster on cost savings but you will I presume they will reflate over time with a higher decline rate, maybe how do you think about that?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, we have to -- we just finished the second well and so we're going to drill -- we're likely to have another appraisal well that -- we're sort of assessing those results. It's likely to be a hub scale type development.

You recall we've said previously that hub scale assets are going to be 400 million to 500 million barrel type developments and so we feel pretty good about this one. We've got more work to do but we feel pretty good. As far as doing them off-cycle this one needs more work to do before we can progress it, so there's a cycle time to that.

Costs I don't want to give you the wrong impression. Costs have come down. Deepwater rig rates, you can get deepwater rigs a lot less than previously.

They have come down. I think the opportunity, if you talk to some of the equipment providers, they would say the industry can do a better job in standardizing to help them drive cost down.

I think the tendency is to think we can continue to extract money out of the supply chain just based on working rates down. But we also have to work with them to help them become more efficient in what they do. And finally some of the big cost reductions are in drilling efficiency which I noted earlier.

So our view, just to be clear, our view is that hub class developments in that 400 million to 500 million barrel range can be developed at moderate prices that wouldn't be out of line with the kinds of prices you all are thinking about and that tiebacks in the 100 million to 200 million barrel category can also be economic. But we're going through our plans right now doing exactly what you described and trying to decide which of these to move counter cyclically and which are just going to have to wait.

EVAN CALIO: Makes sense. Thanks John.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Hi everyone. John, a year ago you were guiding to $40 billion of spending in 2017. Now you're guiding to $20 billion to $24 billion.

Can you break down what comprises that $15 billion? And just a very quick follow up as well, can you give us the start date for Tengiz? Thank you.

JOHN WATSON: You're saying a year ago. If you're saying before oil prices dropped, yes, we were guiding to higher level of spend because we've got a good queue of projects and that would be the opportunity set that we would contemplate.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, I guess what I wanted to know is what projects, how much of it is cost saving, how much of it is deferred projects, which projects have been deferred, the specifics of where we got the $15 billion to $20 billion of savings from?

JOHN WATSON: It's across the board. There are some specific projects.

An example, you know we talked about the Rosebank project. We've talked about the Indonesia deepwater development project.

Both of those are not in these forecasts in terms of significant spend during the planned period. I think both projects will ultimately go.

Kitimat was on our list. We're pacing that project as well. Multiple Angola projects were in pre-FEED.

So there were a lot of projects. Bear in mind some of these projects we think will go. And it could be that they start in the third year of the plan but for now a lot of these have come out and we are going to pace them.

PAUL SANKEY: Would I guesstimate that about half of it is cost savings from lower prices and half is deferred projects? Is that I'm guesstimating I just wondered.

JOHN WATSON: Paul, look, I don't have a precise number for it. Certainly our view of development costs for the shales have come down significantly during that period but I don't have a good breakdown for you on that. Sorry.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. And just the startup for Tengiz?

JOHN WATSON: Well, it's a function of when we take FID. But we will give you more details on it. But you can think of it as being into the next decade.

PAUL SANKEY: But just to be clear I think that you said that the spending in the 2017 number does include some Tengiz spending?

JOHN WATSON: It does, it does. We've been doing work to get the port ready. We've been doing work on site infrastructure.

One of the lessons learned on these big capital projects is that you need to take care of some of these certainly long leads in certain cases and site infrastructure and preparation work. So we're spending some money as a part of the FEED work that we're doing to get greater certainty on costs but this is a five-plus-year construction project. So you can think of it as being into the next decade and we will give you more detail after we take FID.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you, sir.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: Folks, good morning. Just two quick points of clarity if I could.

For one I presume that the CapEx numbers you're providing here include equity affiliate spend. I think historically that's trended around $4 billion and has been self-funding. I'm just trying to see if for one making sure that is in there and is that a fair estimate in those numbers?

And then secondly US natural gas has been ramping up pretty healthy as far as production is concerned. John you mentioned low breakeven on Marcellus, I just wanted to confirm is that the main driver of that? Thanks much.

JOHN WATSON: The answer is yes, it's $4 billion to $5 billion in equity and affiliate spend. Remember as we ramp up the Tengiz project we've got the CP Chem project, you know we've got some significant spending that's taking place in affiliates.

And your second question on Marcellus we're not shutting down activity completely there, don't get me wrong. But we're not going to be running six to eight rigs or anything like that in these kinds of conditions. Right now we've got just a couple of rigs that are running there.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, and John if I could just confirm those equity affiliates that should remain self-funding, is that correct?

JOHN WATSON: Not necessarily. In general the answer is yes. It's depending upon where prices are, it depends on circumstances because as the Tengiz project ramps up there is significant spend and there are loan provisions that are being worked as a part of that project, some of which will be equity partners loans.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, okay. Fair enough. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great, thanks. Good morning, gentlemen. Maybe if I could follow up a little bit on some of your commentary around a longer cycle project spend.

The deferrals that we've seen, I mean I guess it comes from a combination of things which is either lower levels of operating cash flow as well as an effort to drive down project cost and improve economics. As you think going forward of where you are right now your effort to continue to defer at this point, is it driven primarily by this point by your outlook on cash flows or do you think that there's still a meaningful amount of either cost deflation on the projects or I guess the strategic engineering improvements on your end that have to happen? If cash flow should improve do you feel like you're at a point where the industry would be able to start to reinvest in those or is there still some gains to be made?

JOHN WATSON: It's a fair question. I would say a lot of it is cash flow driven right now. We're still in the final throes of our revisions to the Tengiz project cost estimates but we have a pretty good idea where that's going to land.

And we have a pretty good idea of sort of the glide path on technology and where costs are going to go for deepwater projects. But there is some uncertainty on price, and look, I know my shareholders value our dividend. I know our shareholders value increases in the dividend and I know they value us investing in high return projects. So there is some uncertainty on price and we want to be sure we've kept our balance sheet in good condition, and we want to be sure we just strike that right balance to continue to pay and grow the dividend and invest in good projects.

So we're just working through the cycle and living within our means while we take costs down. One of the things that happens if you're taking on fewer projects is the organization will focus harder on getting more efficient at what they do. And we need to do that.

We've got a very good US Upstream business but we didn't make any money in this quarter. And so we need to get more efficient at what we do, we need to look at our structures and we need to get our costs down.

And in the meantime we're going to be ready for some of the projects that I talked about earlier to move them forward. We'll have some countercyclical investment but we do need to live within our means.

RYAN TODD: Great, thanks. So then maybe if I could just get your quick thoughts on maybe on global gas demand, Asian gas demand, maybe even more in particular whether probably less that in relation to Gorgon and Wheatstone as those are contracted to a large extent, but has there been any shift in your view on global gas demand or Asian gas demand longer term? And how would that affect potentially your longer-term view on incremental LNG projects going forward?

JOHN WATSON: That's a fair question. I think overall demand is set to grow very rapidly. And I think the conventional wisdom has been that you're just going to see natural gas displacing coal and gas demand just growing in very rapid rates.

Gas has to be competitive with other options in the portfolio for these developing countries. Affordability is very much key and so while we see literally a doubling of LNG consumption if you go out 10 years versus now a very significant growth in demand I don't think that's changed. What has changed is the supply picture.

We have seen a number of projects take FID and a number of projects that are under construction and the world economy isn't growing quite as fast as we might have thought a few years ago. It's still growing but it isn't growing quite as rapidly as a few years ago. So it's a well supplied market right now.

There's still contracting opportunities out there. Customers do value security of supply. They do value having a known source of supply.

Not everybody wants to run their economy on spot gas. And so I think there are a number of buyers that want to firm up supply. And we for example signed a medium-term contract earlier this year and we think there are other opportunities to do that.

As you see slowdown in FIDs on this I think you'll see consuming countries take stock of that and start to think about additional commitments more toward, that would be more geared toward supply in the early to middle part of the next decade.

RYAN TODD: Thanks, John. I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Roger Read, Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Yes, thank you and good morning. I guess I'd like to get a little more into some of the impacts of potential production declines from you mentioned some of the equity spending at Tengiz but think about spending on non-operated projects that you're on or non=operating legacy production and how that may impact the revised production guidance we should think about or even as a challenge in the 2018 and beyond world.

JOHN WATSON: I'm not -- is there a specific non-op question or concern?

ROGER READ: No, not a specific one but let's just think about anywhere where you're not necessarily making the decision. You're dependent on someone else for that. How do you maybe take that into account in your forecast as a risk factor?

JOHN WATSON: Oh yes. Well certainly we're in dialogue with operators. For example Total is operator on some of the West Africa projects that are potentially in the portfolio.

We're operator on some, they are an operator on some, so the dialogue has been pretty good. I would say the biggest area where we can get influence frankly is in the Permian where we've got some smaller companies and they are very good at what they do but their budgets can move around a little bit. But that's nothing that we can't deal with and accommodate but I would -- I don't think that's going to determine our flexibility in our capital budget.

ROGER READ: Well I wasn't thinking so much the capital budget as I was just you mentioned earlier the underlying production decline being close to 1%, in your outlook you're thinking maybe more the 2% to 3% and I'm just wondering what would push you to the 3% or potentially beyond the 3% being these things that aren't necessarily in your full control?

JOHN WATSON: Well, I'm not going to push -- I'm not going to the change from 1% to 3% is a function of non-op decisions. Because I think everyone in the industry is doing similar things now. We've been reasonably well aligned on budgets with our partners whether we're the operator talking to them or they are the operator talking to us.

JOHN WATSON: We've got time for one more.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, Evercore ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning everybody. John, your new capital management plan appears to be one of the more direct steps towards better capital allocation outcomes that we've seen announced thus far in the super major category on these calls.

On this point I wanted to see if you'd elaborate a little bit on the drivers of the proposed changes, meaning a few minutes ago you talked about how the cyclical element which is in response to lower oil prices and the need for cash flow to cover the dividend at some point was part of it. But also is there an element of the new plan which relates to the more challenging competitive condition that appear to have been a factor for the longer-term industry returns in recent years. So the question is really what's driving the more disciplined approach to investment at Chevron internally when you guys put this together? Meaning is it cyclical, is it secular, is it both? Could you just spend a minute on that?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, truthfully I would say there's an element of all the things that you described. I think in general we were heading through a period where we had a disproportionate amount of our spend in big long cycle projects. So we were going to head to a period where we were going to be digesting those projects and then we would supplement those with a more ratable number of long cycle projects but then continue to invest in the base, in that new base of assets that we've acquired.

So I think that pattern is playing out. I think the issue is what can we do to enhance returns? We've said before we took down our price deck a little bit from where we were before and so there is a new reality in that sense.

Whether that's due to industry supply conditions or the US dollar or a lot of other factors that have taken commodities down, there is a new reality if you will in the commodity price environment for both oil and gas that we're seeing. The industry has been fabulously successful in providing supply. A lot of it is through shale but also elsewhere.

So our focus going forward directionally is consistent with what we would have done anyway but we've taken spend down as I commented earlier to help us really focus on getting the most out of the assets that we have and taking cost down so that we can improve returns. It's unacceptable for us to not be able to make money at whatever commodity price the market is giving us. And that's where we are.

Now I do think commodity prices will improve and I've said that but we need to improve our returns. And so I think that's the focus.

And as I commented earlier if you push the organization in that direction, I mean we're already seeing it's hard to put together a business plan right now because the organization is achieving good things in terms of getting our costs down and it's hard to be forward-looking to know exactly where all the efficiencies might come from as the organization gets more focused on making the best of the assets that they have. So maybe that's the way I can describe it.

So it's all the above including taking costs out of bigger projects going forward.

Okay, so thank you very much. I would like to thank everyone for your time today. We appreciate your interest in the Company. Jonathan, back to you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's third-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | africaz : Africa | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151031ebau006n2
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  Chevron  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,463 words
   PD
31 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

   TD
PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: All right, thank you, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Jay Johnson, Executive Vice President Upstream, and Frank Mount, General Manager of Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's second-quarter earnings were $571 million or $0.30 per diluted share. Included in the quarter were impairments of $1.96 billion and other charges of approximately $670 million relating to project suspensions and adverse tax affects, all of which were non-cash charges stemming from a downward revision in the Company's longer-term crude oil price outlook.

Excluding these special items, as well as asset sale gains and foreign-exchange effects, earnings were $1.8 billion or $0.97 per diluted share, approximately $400 million higher than first quarter on that same basis. A detailed reconciliation of the special items is included in the appendix to this presentation.

Cash from operations was $7.2 billion, an improvement of $4.9 billion from the prior quarter. Our debt ratio at quarter end was 17%. During the second quarter we paid $2 billion in dividends. Earlier in the week we announced a dividend of $1.07 per share payable to shareholders of record as of August 19. We are currently yielding 4.6%.

Turning to slide 4. Cash generated from operations was $7.2 billion during the second quarter and $9.5 billion year to date. Upstream cash generation was stronger than in the first quarter, the result of higher crude prices.

We also benefited from strong cash generation from our Downstream and Chemicals business. Temporary working capital effects reduced year-to-date cash flow by approximately $2 billion. We expect this impact to reverse in future quarters.

Proceeds from asset sales for the quarter totaled approximately $3.9 billion, the vast majority of which related to our sale in -- the interest in Caltex Australia. We are well ahead of pace on our four year asset divestment program. In the past 18 months we have recognized assets sale proceeds of nearly $11 billion compared to our stated $15 billion goal over the 2014 to 2017 time period.

Cash capital expenditures were $7.6 billion for the quarter, essentially flat with the first quarter. Year-to-date cash capital expenditures were $15.2 billion, down $2.2 billion or 13% compared with the same period in 2014. At quarter end our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $12.2 billion and our net debt position was $19.4 billion.

Slide 5 compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year. Second-quarter 2015 earnings were $5.1 billion lower than second quarter 2014 results. Upstream earnings decreased to $7.5 billion between quarters. The impairments and other charges I noted previously accounted for $2.6 billion of this decline.

Significantly lower crude realizations and the absence of second-quarter 2014 asset sale gains make up the remaining variance between periods.

Downstream results increased by $2.2 billion primarily driven by higher worldwide margins and gains from asset sales, principally the sale of our interest in Caltex Australia.

Operationally, the second quarter continued a positive quarterly pattern of high reliability, strong margins and good cost management. The variance in the Other segment was primarily favorable corporate tax items.

Turning now to slide 6. I will compare results with the second quarter 2015 with the first quarter of 2015. Second-quarter earnings were $2 billion lower than first-quarter results. Upstream earnings decreased by $3.8 billion, primarily reflecting the charges I previously discussed.

Unfavorable foreign-exchange effects and the absence of first-quarter asset sale gains and the positive UK tax adjustment were also large variances between periods.

Downstream earnings increased $1.5 billion as gains on asset sales were partially offset by an unfavorable foreign-exchange swing between the quarters. Operationally the quarters were fairly comparable. The variance in the Other segment was primarily favorable corporate tax items partially offset by higher corporate charges including severance accruals.

Frank will now take us through the comparisons by segment.

FRANK MOUNT, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 7. Our US Upstream earnings for the second quarter were $578 million lower than the first-quarter's results. Asset impairments and project suspensions across multiple assets, primarily, as Pat indicated, from a reduced price outlook, decreased earnings by $630 million.

Higher realizations, consistent with an increase in domestic crude prices, increased earnings by $190 million. Exploration expenses, mainly associated with the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, decreased earnings by $70 million. The Other bar reflects higher production which was more than offset by higher DD&A rates.

Turning to slide 8. International Upstream earnings were $3.2 billion lower than last quarter's results. Asset impairments, primarily at Papa-Terra in Brazil, project suspensions and adverse tax effects from price changes previously discussed reduced earnings by about $1.9 billion.

An unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects decreased earnings between periods by approximately $670 million. The absence of last quarter's gains on asset sales and the deferred tax benefit from the UK tax change decreased earnings by $660 million.

Increased exploration expenses resulted in lower earnings of $170 million. Higher realizations increased earnings by $395 million, consistent with the increase in Brent prices between the quarters. The Other bar primarily consists of an unfavorable ruling on a decade old tax issue and severance accruals booked in the second quarter.

Slide 9 summarizes the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the second quarter 2015 and the first quarter 2015. Net production decreased by 85,000 barrels per day between quarters.

Major capital project ramp ups primarily at Jack St. Malo in the Gulf of Mexico and from the expansion of the Bibiyana field in Bangladesh increased production by 22,000 barrels per day. Growth from our shale and tight assets, primarily in the Permian, contributed 11,000 barrels per day.

As we foreshadowed in our first-quarter earnings call, production in the Partitioned Zone was shut down at the end of May based on the inability to secure work and equipment permits. The shutdown decreased production in the second quarter by 38,000 barrels per day.

We are still not producing in the Partitioned Zone and we have no updated guidance as to when production is likely to restart.

Planned and unplanned downtime reduced production by 34,000 barrels per day between periods, primarily in Canada and in Australia. Price and cost recovery effects decreased production by 23,000 barrels per day between quarters as high crude prices and reduced spending decreased volumes associated with production sharing and variable royalty contracts.

The remaining variance in the Base Business and Other bar primarily reflects natural field declines and weather-related production limitations at Tengiz.

Slide 10 compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the second quarter 2015 and the second quarter 2014. Net production increased by 51,000 barrels per day between quarters.

Major capital projects increased production by 71,000 barrels per day due to production ramp-ups primarily in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Bangladesh. Shale and tight production increased by 46,000 barrels per day due to the growth in the Midland and Delaware Basins in the Permian, the Marcellus and the Vaca Muerta shale in Argentina.

Price and cost recovery fix increased production by 61,000 barrels per day due to the roughly 45% drop in crude prices between periods. The shut in of operations in the Partitioned Zone decreased production by 45,000 barrels per day. Asset sales resulted in lost production of 33,000 barrels per day principally driven by the divestment of our assets in Chad and the Netherlands.

The decrease of 49,000 barrels per day in the Base Business and Other bar primarily reflects normal field declines and the impact of higher external constraints, partially offset by a favorable variance from less planned turnaround activity. Our base business continues to perform well with the managed decline rate within our existing guidance range.

Year-to-date net oil equivalent production was 2.638 million barrels per day and within our zero to 3% guidance for 2015 growth. Looking forward to the remainder of the year, the third quarter is expected to be a comparatively heavy turnaround period and we believe the full-year production guidance remains appropriate.

Turning to slide 11. US Downstream results increased $25 million between quarters. Tight product supply, primarily on the West Coast, boosted refining and marketing margins and increased earnings by $165 million between quarters.

Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $185 million reflecting planned maintenance and turnaround activities at the El Segundo refinery and commitments related to the Richmond refinery modernization project. The variance in the other segment primarily reflects stronger results in our chemicals business.

Turning to slide 12. International Downstream earnings improved by $1.5 billion between quarters. Gains on asset sales, primarily related to the sale of the Company's interest in Caltex Australia, increased earnings by $1.7 billion.

Lower refining and marketing margins decreased earnings by $120 million between quarters as product price increases, including the negative price lag effects on naphtha and jet fuel, failed to keep pace with rising crude costs. An unfavorable swing in the foreign currency effects lowered earnings by approximately $155 million. The variance in the Other bar reflects multiple unrelated items.

Jay will now provide an update on our Upstream operations. Jay?

JAY JOHNSON, EVP, UPSTREAM, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Frank. Turning to slide 13. I'm going to discuss our upstream business where we continue to make good progress in delivering the projects that are driving our growth in volume, in value and in cash. Gorgon is a critical part of that growth and we continue to work towards the first LNG cargo.

As you can see from the photo, plant construction is advanced. We are nearing mechanical completion of the first train with over 60% of critical subsystems handed over to commissioning. We've posted new pictures today and I encourage you to look at them on our Investor website and Chevron.com.

Turning to slide 14. The upstream work scope for initial production from the Jansz field is largely complete with the control systems now active. We've established communications from the central control room on Barrow Island to the subsea well which enables us to conduct commissioning activity on the upstream and pipeline systems. Final testing is underway for the subsea infrastructure and controls.

At the plant, all LNG and condensate tanks required for first LNG are ready and commissioning of completed process systems is underway. Currently the critical path is through the refrigerant compressors and the hydrate prevention system for the subsea wells.

We expect to perform the first commissioning run of the compressors and testing of the hydrate prevention system in late September. Once we are satisfied with the operation of these systems we will be ready to introduce gas in the Jansz wells into the upstream pipeline and begin the start up of Train 1, which we currently expect late this year.

The schedule is dependent on managing commissioning and start-up risks including equipment malfunctions, possible labor and weather disruptions, as well as other unforeseen issues. Our focus is on a safe and incident free start up that leads to reliable long-term operations. We are working to achieve the first LNG cargo by year end; however, given these risks, it's likely to occur in early 2016.

Now let's talk about Wheatstone, moving to slide 15. Wheatstone is now over 65% complete. On the upstream side of the project we successfully completed the float over and installation of the offshore platform in April.

Hook up and commissioning is on plan with all subsea structures now installed, the flow line installation underway and the development drilling program ongoing. All nine wells were previously drilled to the top of the reservoir and we are now drilling the reservoir sections of each well and running the completions.

At the plant site 11 of 24 major process modules for Train 1 have been delivered. All refrigeration compressors and gas turbine generators have been installed and the domestic gas pipeline has been completed. The focus of activity at the plant has shifted from civil works to mechanical, electrical and instrumentation systems.

The work on site is going very well. Our biggest challenge has been the delays in module deliver from a fabrication yard which is putting pressure on the schedule. To address the delays we've expanded to an additional yard and provided increased oversight in the yards.

We've seen positive results from these actions and are not anticipating any further delays in the module delivery schedule. Additionally, we've increased bed capacity at the plant site and are updating our work plans to mitigate the impact to schedule. Our objective remains first LNG by year-end 2016 and we will continue to provide updates on our progress over the next 18 months.

Turning to slide 16. Performance at the Jack/St. Malo lower tertiary development continues to exceed our plan. The sixth well was brought on line ahead of schedule and total production has ramped up to around 80,000 barrels per day.

The development drilling program continues and we are seeing significant improvements in cycle time, cost and stimulation effectiveness, with the most recent completion 20% better on cost and schedule than previous wells.

Work to install the Big Foot tension leg platform was suspended in early June when 9 of the 16 tendons lost buoyancy. There were no environmental impacts or injuries and we are investigating the root cause of the incident. We have secured the site, including successful recovery of the 7 remaining tendons. The tension leg platform was undamaged and is being moved to a safe harbor location.

Site surveys and equipment inspections are in progress to determine whether the installed piles and recovered tendons can be reused and what equipment will require replacement in order to complete the project.

At this point we are not expecting any Big Foot production in 2016 or 2017, which is a reduction from our original plan of 10,000 net barrels per day in 2016 and 22,000 in 2017. As we complete the investigation and update our plan we will advise you accordingly.

Appraisal drilling is ongoing at the Anchor discovery and in the Northwest Keathley Canyon area now named Tigris. Tigris has the potential to offer a multi-field hub development of the Guadalupe, Gila and Tiber discoveries with the potential addition of the Gibson exploration prospect which we plan to drill around the end of this year.

Appraisal drilling is underway at Guadalupe and recent results from deepening the Gila discovery well are encouraging with further appraisal planned.

We continue to progress our opportunity queue in the deepwater and in the second quarter made another lower tertiary discovery at the Sicily prospect in Keathley Canyon Block 814. We are encouraged by the results of the discovery well and follow-up appraisal work is planned.

Turning to slide 17. As we communicated in March, our Permian position is strong. We have a large high-quality acreage position with advantage royalty which we are cost-effectively developing.

We remain on track to drill 325 wells this year and have expanded to multiple factory mode horizontal well development programs across the Midland and Delaware Basins. We remain committed to our pace development approach but the short cycle nature of these investments allows us to adjust this pace relatively quickly.

In the current market we have been active in negotiating cost reductions with our suppliers achieving rate reductions of 20% to 50% across our major drilling and completion spend categories. At the same time we continue to improve our drilling and completion efficiency.

Since last year we achieved roughly a 15% increase in drilling footage and a 20% increase in frac stages per day. The initial production rates for these wells are also very encouraging with our Bradford Ranch laterals averaging 1,100 barrels a day and comprising around 90% liquids. In addition, current estimated well recoveries have increased by 30%.

So in summary, cost reductions, improved efficiency and increased recoveries have improved our development cost per barrel by around 35% relative to 2014 and made more than 3,000 well prospects economic at $50 per barrel WTI.

Let's move to slide 18. The major capital projects driving our growth are nearing completion and are underpinned by our strong base business. The volumes associated with this growth are accretive to our cash margins and will contribute to long-term cash flow.

We have reduced our current year capital spending by $5 billion relative to 2014. In the current environment we are planning to reduce our 2016 and 2017 capital programs and our flexibility in capital spending significantly increases as our projects already in execution are completed.

We are pacing projects not yet in execution to ensure we capture the cost advantages presented by the current environment and are prioritizing them to manage our capital program.

We continue to drive cost reduction and efficiency to strengthen our cash flow by systematically reviewing our organizational structures and activity levels in our business units and by working with our suppliers.

Pat will now complete by sharing the enterprise impacts of these efforts.

PAT YARRINGTON: All right, turning to slide 19. I would like to now provide an update on the self-help efforts that we have underway to lower our costs and improve our efficiency.

To date we have identified more than $3 billion in spend reductions with about half coming through organizational reviews and half working through the supply-chain.

On the organizational side efficiency reviews have recently concluded that covered our corporate, gas and midstream and service company groups. Similar reviews are occurring on a rolling basis within our upstream business units. Work activities in these identified groups have been prioritized, streamlined and right sized to the current environment.

Savings total approximately $1.4 billion on a full run rate basis and represent both dollar and workforce reductions off the relevant base of about 20%. These benefits to our cost structure should become increasingly evident as they move through the next several quarters. In future periods we expect to see additional savings identified as our remaining upstream units complete their reviews.

We're also aggressively pursuing savings through the supply-chain, particularly in the US where supplier responsiveness has been high. We have negotiated in excess of $1 billion in immediate savings achieving product category reductions of typically 15% to 30%.

We are also changing the way we work through greater standardization, project re-scoping, refinement of fit for purpose designs and timing optimization. In combination we estimate negotiated savings and work changes will lower our future supply-chain spend $1.6 billion.

These savings will appear in multiple ways as we move through 2015 into 2016. Impacts will come in the form of lower operating expenses, lower capital and lower cost of goods sold. And we are not done.

We expect more supply-chain savings to be identified in future months, particularly as activity continues to slow and as additional spare capacity emerges. We are being aggressive in pursuing these self-help measures in response to a very challenging industry environment.

Moving to slide 20. I would like to close with a few thoughts. We made a commitment to our investors in March. We said we would cover the dividend from free cash flow in 2017, we stand by that commitment. We are taking the steps necessary to ensure we are a resilient competitor regardless of the ensuing price environment.

Our focus areas are shown on the slide: get our capital projects currently under construction online; rebase and reprioritize our capital outflows; maintain reliability and drive our cost structure lower; and conclude our planned divestment programs.

If a lower price environment persists for longer you will see even more significant cost savings and even greater cuts in capital. As we showed you in March, we have tremendous flexibility in our 2017 C&E spend. We are confident that we can and are committed to scaling our C&E outflows in a manner that will allow us to continue our 27-year record of annual dividend payment increases.

So that concludes our prepared remarks. I appreciate you listening in. We are now ready to take your questions. Please keep in mind that we do have a full queue, so try to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up if necessary, and we will do our best to get all of your questions answered. Jonathan, please open the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jason Gammel, Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: First of all if I could just ask on Gorgon. Jay, you mentioned that the key risks still to getting to the first commercial cargo included labor risks and there has been a lot of media attention to one of the unions that is employed by one of your primary contractors. Do you have any update on any industrial actions that could prevent getting that first commercial cargo in early 2016?

JAY JOHNSON: Thanks for the question. At this point the work with the contractors and the unions to agree a new contract is ongoing, the discussions continue. There was a fourth vote that was unsuccessful recently, and so the unions have requested and received permission to seek a strike vote. But there is warning time that has to occur before that happens.

At this point in time any action that would occur would be relatively short in duration, 24 hours or less, and we would have ample warning time before that would occur. But I think it is important to recognize that a strike at this point is really not going to be in anyone's benefit.

And so, the negotiations continue between our contractors and the unions and I am optimistic that they will be able to find a solution and a way forward. I think the issues have largely been addressed. The primary one appears to be just around work schedules. And so that is an area that is receiving quite a bit of focus as we move forward.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, appreciate that. If I could just as a follow-up ask a question about the charges that were recorded in the quarter for project suspension. Would you be able to give us any examples of projects that are being deferred and the level of CapEx savings that is being associated with these deferrals?

JAY JOHNSON: We really aren't going to go into any specific projects that have been deferred. But as we look at our pre-FID capital, the projects that have not moved to sanction, we are really looking to do either deferments as we slow them down to take advantage of the current market environment, build lower cost structure into those projects.

We are also looking to pace those projects as we build our capital programs looking ahead to 2016 and 2017. But some projects that we feel are not going to be competitive, rather than keep them moving we have just elected to go ahead and suspend those and those cost reflect some of those projects that we've suspended.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, thanks for your thoughts, Jay.

OPERATOR: Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: First question -- I appreciate the additional color on the operating cost reduction potential. And if we think about the capital cost side, looking at your Analyst Day deck you had a gray bar with respect to capital costs of about $20 billion in 2016.

So, I guess I am just wondering like how much reduction potential is there from a deflation standpoint, a deferral standpoint? And really if you kind of wrap it altogether with the operating cost, your guidance at the Analyst Day suggested you could cover dividend at $70. So how low do you think that could go given where we are in this current oil price environment?

PAT YARRINGTON: So I think there is two elements there. Let me just start with the last component here. Really we did say we would cover our dividend from free cash flow at the $70 price. What I was trying to indicate in my earlier words is we intend to cover the dividend from free cash flow at whatever the ensuing price is.

That is a firm commitment on the part of the Company and we have tremendous flexibility really in our 2017 C&E to flex that down. We are being very successful in driving our operating cost lower and working through the supply-chain to accomplish not only operating expense but capital reductions as well.

And that really is an affordability component for us; it is a cash flow management element for us. And after we get these projects that are currently under construction online, that flexibility in C&E becomes quite significant in 2017. So I will let Jay talk to his prioritization process in terms of looking at the capital program in 2017.

JAY JOHNSON: So, as we are building -- we are in the process of building our plan right now for 2016, 2017 and 2018. As we go through, as we said before, our primary focus first and foremost is on putting the investment back into our base business, around asset integrity and maintaining good reliable operations. And then we also fund the major capital projects that are in execution.

And as you have seen in our slides, that will decrease significantly as these projects come online. Just for example, in our LNG projects, this year we expect to spend around $8 billion in LNG, C&E, but by 2017 that is down to $1 billion. So we will see tremendous flexibility coming in just from that.

At the same time we are looking at our base business and, as I mentioned, we are bringing our costs down, our efficiencies up. So we are seeing very good performance out of our base business and able to compete even in this environment. So we are evaluating how much money to put back into the base to maintain and continue to grow particularly the short cycle high-value returns.

And then finally, we are looking at the projects that are pre-FID. And as I said, we want to build in the lower-cost structures and we want to be able to preserve the option so that as prices recover we can decide at what pace and how to ratably bring these projects back into the program.

Moving engineering forward so that we have better definition, better understanding of these projects is a very low-cost way to build more confidence into our program for the future.

And the last area is our exploration. We've been very successful in the last several years so we have built up a bit of an inventory on the resource side. And so, we can pull back on exploration over the next couple of years as we consolidate and wait for prices to recover.

So, I would see a dramatic and significant reduction in capital as we move forward. We are building that into our plans, but the exact amount is yet to be determined.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, that is helpful. And then the second question is just in light of the commentary about Big Foot, so the risks around Gorgon and Wheatstone. Maybe you could just discuss your degree of confidence with the 3.1 million barrels a day production target for 2017 at this point.

And to what degree you might be able to quantify what you see as the downside risks. I know there was some cushion in that at one point, but maybe just kind of update us with your latest thoughts on that. Thanks.

JAY JOHNSON: We still feel very confident about the growth we are going to deliver, and that is primarily because the growth is captured and driven by these major capital projects that are currently in execution. And as I have said, we will continue to fund those and bring those to completion.

So that growth is there, it is real and it is based on our underlying base business performance which has been very strong and we done a good job of being able to maintain our underlying decline rate. But we are in a different world and so we are seeing costs change as obviously the cost structure -- price structures have come down, costs are moving.

And so, just as we did with North America gas, there is still opportunity to make adjustments in how we continue to invest in some of the shorter cycle opportunities.

So I see us as having a very strong base, the growth is -- we are very confident with that. The level of divestment, the level of base business, those can be some factors that go into it. But on balance we are very strong on the growth prospect and the growth story that we have presented to you.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Maybe a small question to begin with. Just obviously Big Foot delay and then you're talking about extra fab space for Wheatstone and extra beds. I presume there'd be a CapEx impact that you might be able to speak to or not. And then obviously would you be able to offset that with the cost reduction efforts that the industry is going through?

JAY JOHNSON: Thanks. That's a good question. With Wheatstone, when you put extra beds in there are some costs associated with that. At the same time, because the modules were late we didn't build up the manpower initially as we had originally planned. So there were some of savings early on.

But in general we are facing cost pressure on the projects just as we are around the world. At the same time we are seeing very favorable exchange rates in Australia that are a countervailing force to that.

So we are still working under the cost forecast that we have already provided to you. We will continue to monitor that and see how we progress through the next 18 months and we will update you if we feel costs have changed significantly.

ED WESTLAKE: Right. And then this is a broader question. I mean there was a period where Chevron had very good project execution, and then there have been obviously some well-publicized setbacks more recently.

If there was one change or one message that you were trying to get to investors and to the organization about how to hold onto better project execution what would that message be? And is there any anecdotes or data to illustrate that that is changing?

JAY JOHNSON: That is also a good question. I think we have some seen some degradation in terms of performance and it is driven by a couple of things. One, the projects have been very large and complex.

In and of itself that is not something that should be difficult to manage. But because of the number of projects being simultaneously managed, I think both the industry's resources were stretched thin as well as our own resources to manage these projects were stretched thin.

As we now consolidate and finish this big wave of projects that drives the growth that we have, roughly 20% from 2014 to 2017, we won't see that kind of sustained effort to maintain that growth going forward. It will be at a much more moderate pace. So I think we will have a more ratable queue of projects back into the range that's more straightforward to manage.

At the same time we are also working to lower the cost structures and increase the predictability of these projects by advancing engineering before we move them to FID. So as I mentioned, on many of our pre-FID projects such as FGP, we talked in March about advancing the engineering past 50%, that 40% to 50% range by the time we take FID.

Just as an example, you were looking for a proof point, when we took Gorgon to FID we had modeled 12-inch pipe and larger in our 3D CAD models at the time of FID. FGP will have 3-inch and larger pipe in our system and sketches done for everything below that.

So there is a great deal more definition in the design before we are moving these projects forward. So I think the combination of having a more ratable program along with better engineering, more advanced, higher quality engineering will pay dividends for us.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks, Jay.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Jay, if I could two questions. If you are looking at a company the scope and size of Chevron, on a going forward basis historically that you spend most of your capital in the long cycle mega development. How is that going to change? And is there maybe a sweet spot how that is going to shift between the short cycle and long cycle development effort going forward?

JAY JOHNSON: Yes. I think as you look at projects like Wheatstone, the Gorgon, the FGPs and TCO, these are projects that will add very large base and very long-term assets to our portfolio. As we execute our small capital projects, which are often infill drilling programs, work over programs and debottlenecking, we typically see rates of return of above 50% and they are built on these assets, we have already made the investment.

So I think we are really doing a good job of rejuvenating our base and putting some new life into the base that we can continue to exploit over a long period of time. But at the same time we are building our capability day by day in our ability to go after the shale and tight, largely in North America and in Argentina.

So as you have seen our performance numbers continue to increase, we are coming down that learning curve and we are becoming more and more competitive. And it is going to give us a very good balance between deepwater projects, large base projects in the LNG and sour gas, as well as access to the shorter cycle shale and tight unconventional projects. So I see a very good balance and very good diverse portfolio that we are developing.

PAUL CHENG: Is there a percentage that you can share that on a going forward basis there was the capital [spend] between the long and the short cycle going to look like?

JAY JOHNSON: At this point in time I don't have a ratio or a percentage to share with you. Our resource base has increased about 15%. Our portfolio has increased in the unconventional side by about 15% over the last five years in particular. So we are seeing more of our resource base being the unconventionals.

But the unconventionals have very high, very fast decline rates and that is always going to be something we balance against the longer-term projects with their stable production. So that is something we will work through as we react to market conditions, our view of forward pricing and the capital that we want to invest across the portfolio.

PAUL CHENG: The second question is that, Jay, going back into your early comment, not just Chevron, it looked like the whole industry the last maybe 10 years has got overly optimistic about their capability to deliver and execute. And so, it seems like everyone is stretching themselves to the limit and we start seeing all these execution issues.

For Chevron, learning from the mistake of the last several years, have you changed the way -- I mean you are talking a little bit about more definition. But at the top how have you changed the investment decision process on the FID?

Will you be -- I mean in the future -- in the past the industry tends to just looking at the financial capability and whether that you can afford the project and whether it is a good project. How that is going to change in the future particularly for Chevron?

JAY JOHNSON: For Chevron we have traditionally looked at individual projects and the economic opportunity each project presents in making an investment decision. I would say now in the current environment and looking forward there will be two additional lenses that will be added to that decision.

First and foremost the project and the economic proposition it presents. But then we will be looking at what is the overall level of investment we want to be making and also what is the level of human capacity we have to manage the projects. And those will certainly be factors that we will build into the process and we are building in into the process now so that we can keep that as we move forward.

We have also done a lot of work to put in what we call readiness reviews. And these are to make sure that both from a design and a design assurance standpoint before the project moves to execution. But also before we start up these projects we are going through readiness reviews that are much more rigorous and help us make sure we have the resources and the capabilities in place to execute these projects as expected.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Maybe if I could do one follow-up on the cost -- on the slide that you had there, on slide 19, the $3 billion in spend reduction targeted. I am not sure if you -- if I missed it when you said it, but is this all -- is that CapEx and OpEx, is that all on the OpEx side? Can you estimate how much you have captured to date; how far along you are at this point?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. So the combination of the $3 billion is for both operating expense and capital. The $1.4 billion is predominately going to be operating expense and the $1.6 billion is going to be a mixture of both and probably leaning a little bit more towards the capital side of things.

And these are elements that should begin to show in an accelerated basis as we move through the third and the fourth quarter. I would say captured to date actually has been some but not a high proportion of the $3 billion total.

RYAN TODD: Okay. And is there a timing on when you hope -- is this something you hope to capture over the next year or two years or --?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think it will be more immediate than that. I mean I think it will be into the third quarter and fourth quarter of 2015 with some carry over into 2016 as well. I mean a large portion of the supplier engagement element there, $1 billion of that, are negotiated price reductions off of planned 2015 activity.

So, those negotiations began, as you know, back in the January/February timeframe, were sort of concluded in the May/June timeframe. And so those rate reductions we should begin to see coming forward in the next half of the year.

RYAN TODD: Great, thank you. Very helpful. And then maybe if -- I appreciate the color that you gave earlier on Big Foot and the contribution of Big Foot to the 2016 and 2017 plans. Could you maybe give the same numbers for what -- in the 2017 plan what is assumed for the Partitioned Zone and Angola LNG? And maybe any updates you have on both of those projects?

JAY JOHNSON: Sure. And first I will start with the PZ. The PZ at this point in time we have around 60,000 to 70,000 barrels a day expected in the 2017 plan, but we do not expect that field to still be shut-in in 2017. So my expectation is that we will be able to resume operations.

There is an issue that is being discussed between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait; the impact on us is the difficulty in receiving visas and equipment permits. So we were unable to continue operations and we stopped operations there as this issue is addressed.

Our goal would be to return to normal operations in the short-term as the -- any other issues are continued to be worked out between the two governments. And so, we work and we are trying to support the activities in that area accordingly.

In terms of the ALNG, progress is moving along quite well there. We are completing the work on all the piping modifications. You recall this was a result of the acoustic induced vibration analysis that was done. So that work should be finishing up in the month of August and then that will allow us to start the recommissioning process of the plant.

The other work in terms of the conditioning equipment on the front end of the plan to handle the diversity of the associated gas feeding the plant will be complete as are the technical bulletins. So we would expect to see restart late in the year and then sustained production in 2016 and onward. So that is really the status of those two projects.

RYAN TODD: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Neil Mehta, Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: So, Pat, I just want to talk philosophically about how you are thinking about the dividend and your strategy there. Didn't raise the dividend in the third quarter, but the way we read the comments was that if we look for you to raise it here in the fourth quarter even if it is a nominal level and as a priority to continue to raise the dividend going forward. I just want to confirm that and then get your thoughts on the broader dividend strategy.

PAT YARRINGTON: Good question. So our broader dividend strategy hasn't changed. Our financial priorities haven't changed. Maintaining a competitive and growing dividend is our absolutely number one objective.

What has changed though is obviously our immediate financial environment. And so, the Board chose not to raise the dividend in this quarter. I think that is a prudent action at this point because we are not running as strongly certainly as we would like on both earnings and cash flow because of where commodity prices sit.

And it is not -- I would say it is probably we are not in a very stable either revenue or cost environment. We have a lot of fluidity on those two components here.

I will say the Board is very committed to growing the dividend and seeing our pattern of dividend increases every year materialize. But what is important here is it is the annual dividend payment that has moved up every year.

That doesn't mean you get an increase in the per share every single year because we typically have moved them in the second quarter. So it is an annual dividend payment history that applies to the 27 year factor.

So I think the Board is committed to that. We are committed to that. So I would like to be able to say our entire objective is being able to grow the dividend when the time is appropriate.

We don't want to get out over our skis; we want to do it in a manner and at a time when we can see that we can hold onto that increase sort of in perpetuity. We don't want to put ourselves into a position where we are pushing things, where we are having to fund the dividend off the balance sheet for an extended period of time. So we will do it as soon as the financials really allow us to get there. It is our number one priority though.

NEIL MEHTA: Thank you, Pat. And, Jay, a question for you around Latin America. Two regions in particular, Venezuela output generally seems to be very robust across the country. Curious what you are seeing there and if you can comment on your relationship with -- just politically over there and given some of the potential tensions.

And then the outlook for Argentina as well. It looks like a very powerful resource, obviously a dynamic political situation there as well. But comments on both of those plays would be terrific.

JAY JOHNSON: The performance in both of those areas has been good. And our relationships with the government in both countries I would characterize as very strong. We have a long history and we have worked hard to maintain both our performance and our relationships.

In terms of the unconventional play in Loma Campana, we are seeing continued progress there. We have linked in that asset team and they are tied to our North America asset team, so there is good sharing of information as we continue to move down the learning curve.

As we gain knowledge from the industry and offset partners we are plowing those back into the business moving to consistent set of metrics. So that drive to continue to improve in the unconventional space is being applied in Argentina as well. So we are quite excited about the potential for that asset.

ED WESTLAKE: Thank you, Jay. Thank you, Pat. Thanks, Frank.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I think you mentioned earlier an inability to slow offshore exploration spending in this current environment or in your outlook here. But can you quantify exploration spending in 2015 and 2016 from -- at least from an Analyst Day timeframe and discuss rig commitments that limit your flexibility into that timeframe?

JAY JOHNSON: Yes. The deepwater drilling that is going on in the Gulf of Mexico of course we have six rigs there and it moves back and forth between exploration and appraisal. So as we have exploration success then rigs get taken out of exploration and moved into more appraisal and development work.

So, for example, right now we have, of the six rigs, four working on production and development wells and two are working on appraisal wells. And we will move some of those back into the exploration area.

We currently expect to drill about 12 what we consider to be high impact exploration wells around the world this year. We continue to see activity in West Africa. Deepwater West Africa and the Gulf of Mexico are two of our primary areas. But we also have some other work in the unconventional going on as well.

EVAN CALIO: Right. So this is more of a shifting than maybe a reduction on the rig side?

JAY JOHNSON: I think as we move forward we are going to -- on the rig side we shift those back and forth. Of course they are under long-term contracts, the large deepwater rigs. But in terms of some of the unconventional work, those rigs are on shorter cycle and we can move accordingly with our capital allocation.

Going forward my comment was really around how much additional work we are going to put in outside of those committed deepwater rigs.

EVAN CALIO: Great, Jay. And since I have you on the call, maybe a question on the Permian. Your EURs are up 30% on the slides, maybe color on the driver there, whether it's completion, lateral length, different zones?

And maybe just generally within your portfolio given the returns -- is this region a net receiver of more capital versus other areas where there may be more capital pressure in this environment?

JAY JOHNSON: Yes, on the first question, I would say it is all the above. As we are getting more effective in our drilling we are learning a lot from our offset operators and we are moving, as you know, from vertical wells to horizontal wells. And our preference is to really be able to drill those 7,500 foot laterals.

The IP rates are consistent with what we were hoping for. We are seeing high liquids content in Bradford Ranch. So everything is looking pretty positive there. And when you combine that with the reductions we are getting from our cost of suppliers and the efficiencies. That is what is driving that 35% reduction in our development cost per barrel.

I would say that as we look forward we certainly see the Permian as a very lucrative area for us to continue to grow. But because so much of that acreage is held by fee, we have the luxury of being able to moderate and decide just how much we went to put in there and really can use that as a flywheel. And as we put more infrastructure into the area, it really gives us increasing flexibility and profitability as we move forward.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Thanks for your answers.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, Evercore ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: On the industry deflation theme, I wanted to see if Jay could comment on whether -- Jay, whether you think the pace of cost capture that Chevron is experiencing is different between the US and overseas markets, meaning is one of them lagging the other?

And also, do you think it is reasonable to believe that the pace of cost productivity capture for larger companies like Chevron might lag that of smaller companies during this part of the cycle?

JAY JOHNSON: Good questions. I will talk first about the US versus international. We have seen a faster response in cost reductions in the US than in the international side.

A lot of that is driven by the competitiveness of the US market. There are more contractors out there, there are more service providers and you can work and make transition from one to another faster if needed.

As you get into the international environment it varies country by country, but the barriers to entry can be much higher. There is often local content issues. Many of these companies may be in joint venture with local companies. So it just makes it more difficult sometimes to drive those costs lower in the short-term.

But what is happening is we are seeing the activity levels come off substantially. And as activity levels come off we are seeing that drive the cost structure lower. So I think we will see, and particularly as low prices persist, we will see the international continue to come down. It just hasn't been at the rate that we have seen in North America. I'm sorry, the second part of your question?

DOUG TERRESON: Yes, and also, Jay, do you think it is reasonable that larger -- that the cost productivity capture for big companies like Chevron might lag that of the smaller companies during this part of the cycle?

JAY JOHNSON: Yes. I think in North America the small companies can also drive costs down just as we do because, as I said, there is enough competition for provision of goods and services that they can make those switches just as we can. And so they can drive very, very rapid reductions in price.

In the international area what we are trying to do is really work as an enterprise so that we are working with our major suppliers and coordinating our efforts to drive those costs down around the globe.

That is where I think a big company has some leverage that a small company wouldn't. We can work with these very large companies to drive those efficiencies, to make sure that our global contracts and terms and conditions support a lower cost structure.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.

PAT YARRINGTON: And I would just add that I think because of our spend and our size that gives us additional leverage that some of the smaller firms don't have.

DOUG TERRESON: It seems like it would over some period. And then also, Jay, you talked about the neutral zone a few minutes ago and it has obviously been shut in for a few quarters. And I know it is hard to know whether the Saudi's and the Kuwaiti's are close to resolving their issues.

But my question is, if those fields were able to be brought back on stream over what period of time do you think this could happen? Meaning is this something that could occur over months or is it quarters or is it a longer-term period given the extended nature of the shut in? So, how do you think about that?

JAY JOHNSON: Well, the fields were shut in, the Wafra field was shut in in mid-May, so that kind of gives the beginning of the timeframe. And obviously it depends on how long they remain shut in. If we were able to restart in the next couple of months I think we would be looking at probably like about a six-month ramp up to get back into kind of normal operations.

Obviously visas have to be issued, we have to get workers into the country, we have to get to the facilities restarted. But we have been doing steadily since the facilities were shut in preservation work to make sure that the facilities are protected and that we are ready for a restart.

There is extensive planning around the restart. So I think as we work to get approval to restart that field it really just depends on how long it is going to take before that restart initiates. But at this point in time we can restart in a relatively short period of time, a couple of quarters I would say.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, good, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Pat, (multiple speakers) a follow-up to some earlier comments and then I have a separate question. I wasn't quite clear what you are saying about the dividend. Did you say that the 27-year record is not of increases in per share dividend but is an absolute payout? I think that is what you said.

PAT YARRINGTON: It is an annual payment record, yes.

PAUL SANKEY: So, we are looking at the dollars that you pay out as an amount, is that the increase that (multiple speakers)?

PAT YARRINGTON: That is correct. That is correct.

PAUL SANKEY: So what you're saying is it may not increase on a per share basis.

PAT YARRINGTON: Each year it may not. But the payment in each year has increased 27 years.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes. Given all the moving parts here, if we could just -- I am sorry if I missed it. But are we still reiterating the 3.1 million a day for 2017? And is that changing with the asset sale element here? I am not clear if you've increased your asset sale target. And I think you net asset sales from the 3.1 million a day, is that correct?

And furthermore, is the cash flow neutrality target dependent on asset sales? And I am, again, not clear if you have increased the asset sales. And finally, is the cash flow neutrality a number at which you keep volumes flat or you grow? Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, so, let me just go back and talk about the original objective that we put out in 2017 in $70 oil and the cash flow neutrality. The assumption that we had in there was independent of asset sales, at the $70 price.

Now depending upon where you go on price I have indicated that we would continue to work our cost structure, we would continue to work our capital outlays. I think we also need to keep asset sales in the portfolio. It is an arrow in the quiver, it is a lever that we would have.

And what we showed you back in March, we were cash flow neutral covering the dividend without asset sales in there. Depending upon where prices end, obviously I think that is a lever that we still need to have available to us.

JAY JOHNSON: So, when we gave you the SAM information in March we had about 65,000 decrease from the 2014 to 2017 in asset sales. And that, as Pat said, can certainly change as we determine what the level of asset sales is going to be. But the 3.1 is really driven by the major capital projects that are under construction that are going to be coming online.

And I think one of the key points was, as we also said in March, those volumes that are contributed are accretive from a cash margin standpoint. So as those projects come online we still see that as the main driver of our growth. And then we just have to evaluate both from a divestment standpoint and any moderation in capital into the base what the impacts of that might be.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, so we are sticking with the 3.1. It is not necessarily contingent. You are not adjusting for asset sales, but neither are you adjusting for the project issues that you talked about on the call. The cash flow neutrality doesn't or does include asset sales and can you grow from there from 2017 if you are cash flow neutral? Thanks.

JAY JOHNSON: Yes, I think from the standpoint that the -- 3.1 million is an outcome. It was 3.3. And as the North America gas pricing came substantially lower and we saw it staying lower we pulled back some investment from North America gas and brought our target down accordingly.

At this point we are still with the 3.1 million, we still have all these projects that are under construction and driving forward. But obviously we just have to see if this very low price condition persists it may have some impact. 3.1 million is as good a number as an outcome that I can drive you to at this point in time.

In terms of going forward, we will actually see our capital programs we've talked about moderate quite a bit because we are not going to be trying to do and accomplish the organic growth that we are underway right now.

So as we look forward we are evaluating that now. We will see some momentum continue. Projects like Gorgon have two trains that will come on, Trains 2 and 3, and then the ramp ups that are associated with those trains. Wheatstone will have a second train coming on. We will have some other projects that are still in the ramp-up phase.

So I see some momentum carrying past 2017, those are also going to be strong volumes from a cash margin standpoint. And then as we look out into the next decade, a lot of that is going to depend on the options that we have been able to preserve and the degree to which we have moved any of the pre-FID projects forward. That is part of the work that is undergoing now in our business plan.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, so I don't want to go on too much with it. Just a final specific one was the cash flow neutrality does include asset sales?

PAT YARRINGTON: In the $70 case the answer was no, it did not. Depending upon what case you are going forward with here, a $60 case, a $50 case, whatever your case is, I want to preserve that degree of flexibility for us.

Our primary levers are going to be getting our cost structure down and getting our capital program down for whatever price environment prevails out there. But depending upon where prices do go, I don't want to take off our available set of options, I don't want to take asset sales off that available set of options.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, I understand. Can I slip in another one? Why was the (multiple speakers).

FRANK MOUNT: We are over time, we have got (multiple speakers).

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, I will let you go. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Alastair Syme, Citi.

ALASTAIR SYME, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Can I just ask on the impairment exactly what it was that triggered it? Is it just oil price or is it something about assets being up for sale or some geological review? And can you say what oil price it is?

PAT YARRINGTON: I can answer most of those questions here. The trigger really was a lowering of our corporate longer-term price outlook on crude oil. We took that action in May and, as you know, when there is a trigger event like that we do need to run impairment tests on our assets.

Any time there is a significant trigger, whether it be a reduced price outlook or increased costs or some change in the geology in the reserve or production profile, those are elements that when that trigger occurs we need to do the impairment reviews. And we have a process set up where we look at that every quarter.

In this particular instance the vast majority of the impairments related to Papa-Terra and that was a price induced, crude oil price induced impairment. We did have a couple of other smaller assets in this category as well where they were assets held for sale where we were writing it down basically to what we felt was the realizable value.

ALASTAIR SYME: And on the oil price, is it possible to talk around that?

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. We are not going to give you our proprietary oil price. I can just say the revised outlook was really based on two factors. One had to do with the rate we were expecting of global GDP growth and in particular around China. So we have seen softening in China and we have taken our view of that down accordingly.

And the second major factor that lowered our overall price outlook had to do with the US tight oil shale produce ability. We have seen obviously much stronger production coming out of the US and with the ingenuity and cost efficiencies of the US industry we have seen costs continue to fall and economics of those barrels continue to rise. And so that puts more supply onto the marketplace.

So, it was those two factors that led us to lowering our longer-term price outlook.

ALASTAIR SYME: And finally, (inaudible) anything taken on Big Foot other than the impairment or in the suspension (inaudible)?

PAT YARRINGTON: Nothing of any material size, no.

ALASTAIR SYME: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Guys, thanks for letting the call run over, I really appreciate (technical difficulty) got onto the end here.

I guess I wanted to kind of follow up on a couple of things that Paul mentioned, but I really had two specifics, Pat. You have $11 billion out of $15 billion on disposals, what is your thoughts on this and total target at this point given that you have still got 2.5 years left? I assume you have got a lot of upside potential. So that is my question.

PAT YARRINGTON: We are not in a position to move that target at this point. We just moved that target back in March. We feel very good about the assets that we have been able to move forward and the value that we have captured for that.

So we have a number of assets kind of lined up in our own mind about how we could meet that $15 billion target over the next several months, 18 months or so. But it really will depend on whether or not that value is captureable. And we are not going to just sell the asset for the sake of meeting a target; we want to capture value while we do it.

So I am not in a position to raise that target at this point. We feel good about where we sit. When we get to March of next year, if we have a different view we will update it at that time.

DOUG LEGGATE: I appreciate it. My follow up and I guess the last question of the call is on Gorgon. Not so much on the timing of the start up, I think Jay has been pretty clear on that. But the timing of getting to full capacity. Because obviously the cash flow delta that comes from the slowdown in spending versus the cash flow contributions is quite important.

And I guess what I am getting at is if everyone is really starting to think lower for longer, what does the cash contribution look like and how long does it take to get to full capacity? So, I don't know how you want to try and answer that, but if you could help us with the contribution from Gorgon when it does come on that would be really helpful.

JAY JOHNSON: So our current view on Gorgon is that each train -- the second train should start up about seven months after the first train and then followed by four to six months for the third train. And it should take around eight months on the first train to get to capacity is our plan and then six months for Trains 2 and 3.

So you can kind of put all that together to get a rough profile of what Gorgon going to look like going forward. And even in the lower price environment the cash generation that it has is still substantial. So we are looking forward to getting that cash on stream.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, I think that was our last call. I want to thank everybody for your time and attention here this morning. And I will turn it back to you, Jonathan.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150801eb7v008c3
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  Chevron  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,911 words
   PD
1 May 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

   TD
I will now turn the conference call over to Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Okay. Thank you, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's first quarter earnings conference call and webcast.

On the call with me today are Jeff Gustavson and Frank Mount, who are currently transitioning the General Manager of Investor Relations role. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's first quarter earnings were $2.6 billion or $1.37 per diluted share. Excluding gains from asset sales, foreign exchange effects, and other special items, earnings were $0.76 per diluted share, or $1.4 billion.

This is a better outcome than the decline in commodity prices would have implied. This is because operationally it was a very solid quarter for both Upstream and Downstream.

Production volumes were strong, and Downstream asset utilization and reliability were high; plus, operating cost control was evident throughout the enterprise. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was approximately 10%, and our debt ratio at quarter end was 18%.

During the first quarter, we paid $2 billion in dividends. Earlier in the week we announced a dividend of $1.07 per share payable to shareholders of record as of May 19. We currently yield about 3.8%.

Turning to slide 4, cash generated from operations was $2.3 billion for the first quarter. This reflected lower Upstream results due to the sharp decline in commodity prices as well as negative working capital effects of approximately $2 billion.

The majority of the working capital effects are temporary in nature, and we expect these to reverse in future quarters. These impacts were only partially offset by strong cash generation from our Downstream and Chemicals businesses.

In the quarter, proceeds from asset sales totaled approximately $950 million, the majority of which related to the sale of our interests in multiple offshore and onshore leases in Nigeria. In February, the Company successfully executed a $6 billion bond offering.

Cash capital expenditures were $7.6 billion for the quarter, a decrease of approximately 11% from first quarter 2014, and over 20% lower than fourth quarter. At quarter end, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $13 billion, and our net debt position was about $21 billion.

Slide 5 compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year. First quarter 2015 earnings were approximately $1.9 billion lower than first quarter 2014 results.

Upstream earnings decreased $2.7 billion between quarters. Significantly lower crude realizations were partially offset by positive foreign exchange effects, higher gains on asset sales, and favorable tax items.

Foreign exchange gains in the first quarter were substantial, $580 million in total. As a reminder, most of our foreign exchange impacts stem from balance sheet translations and do not generally affect cash.

Downstream results increased by over $700 million, primarily driven by stronger worldwide refining and marketing margins. Operationally, first quarter results were amongst the very best we've had in several years, a perfect combination of margin strength and improved refining reliability.

The variance in the Other segment was primarily associated with the absence of an impairment recognized in first quarter 2014 following the cessation of certain mining operations, primarily offset by higher tax and other corporate charges.

Turning to slide 6, I'll now compare results for the first quarter 2015 with the fourth quarter of 2014. First quarter earnings were approximately $900 million lower than fourth quarter results.

Upstream earnings decreased by approximately $1.1 billion between quarters, reflecting lower realizations and asset sale gains, partially offset by lower impairments and operating costs.

Downstream earnings were lower by $95 million. Stronger US margins and lower operating expenses across the global system were more than offset by the absence of gains on asset sales recognized in the fourth quarter and an unfavorable swing in timing effects between quarters.

The variance in the Other segment largely reflects lower corporate charges. Jeff will now take us through the comparisons by segment.

JEFF GUSTAVSON, GENERAL MANAGER IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 7, our US Upstream earnings for the first quarter were about $900 million lower than fourth quarter's results. Sharply lower liquids realizations decreased earnings by $735 million. Our crude and liquids realizations all dropped by approximately 35% between periods.

Gains on asset sales were lower by $330 million. In the fourth quarter, we recognized a gain following the sale of our interests in certain LPG pipeline assets which are associated with the Upstream segment.

The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items. Lower operating and exploration expenses were partially offset by higher depreciation charges including impairments for several smaller assets.

Turning to slide 8, International Upstream earnings were about $200 million lower than last quarter's results. Significantly lower crude prices impacted earnings by $1.3 billion. Our average International crude realizations were down over 30% between quarters, consistent with the decline in Brent prices.

Lower operating expenses across multiple countries increased earnings by $335 million. In March, the UK government implemented a change in the petroleum tax law retroactive to the beginning of the year, which resulted in a one-time deferred tax benefit of $350 million. The absence of impairments from the prior quarter increased earnings by $570 million, while lower gains on asset sales this quarter decreased earnings by $360 million.

The Other bar included multiple components. Two notable drivers for this positive variance were stronger liftings and foreign exchange effects.

Slide 9 summarizes the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the first quarter 2015 and the fourth quarter 2014. Net production increased by almost 100,000 barrels per day between quarters.

Price effects increased production by 55,000 barrels per day, as lower crude prices increased cost recovery and other volumes associated with production sharing and variable royalty contracts. Major capital project ramp-ups at Jack/St. Malo and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico and from the expansion of the Bibiyana field in Bangladesh increased production by 42,000 barrels per day.

Planned turnaround activity was heavy in the fourth quarter, particularly at our SGI/SGP facilities in Kazakhstan as well as in Thailand and Australia. First quarter, by contrast, was much lighter in planned maintenance, and this accounted for higher production of 36,000 barrels per day between periods.

Growth from our shale and tight assets, primarily in the Permian, contributed 10,000 barrels per day. External constraints, primarily lower gas demand in Southeast Asia as well as weather-related impacts, decreased production by 18,000 barrels per day. The remaining variance in the Base Business and Other bar reflects greater unplanned downtime and other non-related items.

Slide 10 compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the first quarter 2015 and the first quarter 2014. Net production increased by 93,000 barrels per day between periods.

Price effects increased production by 71,000 barrels per day, due to the roughly 50% drop in crude prices between periods. Last year, Brent averaged $108 per barrel in the first quarter. This year, Brent averaged $54 per barrel in the first quarter.

Shale and tight production increased by 43,000 barrels per day, due to growth in the Midland and Delaware Basins in the Permian as well as in the Vaca Muerta shale in Argentina. Major capital projects increased production by 35,000 barrels per day. Production ramp-ups in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Bangladesh, Trinidad, and Brazil were all positives.

The shutdown of Angola LNG, which occurred subsequent to last year's first quarter, partially offset these increases. Asset sales resulted in lost production of 34,000 barrels per day, principally driven by divestments of our assets in Chad and the Netherlands.

The decrease of 22,000 barrels per day in the Base Business and Other bar primarily reflects normal field declines partially offset by lower turnaround activity and unplanned downtime. Our base business continues to perform well, with a managed decline rate below our existing guidance.

First quarter net production rate of 2.681 million barrels per day is a strong start to the year and is above the flat to 3% growth range we indicated in January as our production guidance. While this is above our guidance, it is important to remember that we have maintenance turnarounds and asset sales planned for later in the year.

I would also like to comment on an issue we mentioned in our 10-K about our operations in the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, where we produce 76,000 barrels per day net in the first quarter. It now appears more likely that our future production levels in the Partitioned Zone could be negatively impacted due to our inability to secure work and equipment permits.

The potential for a shutdown of production was not anticipated in our flat to 3% guidance range. We do not know for sure a production impact will occur; and if it does occur, we cannot estimate its duration. In any case, we estimate that the 2015 financial impact from a potential shutdown would be minimal.

Turning to slide 11, US Downstream results decreased $183 million between quarters. Importantly, the operational results noted in the green bars were over $500 million stronger between periods.

Margins increased earnings by $435 million, driven by unplanned industry downtime and tight product supply on the US West Coast. US Gulf Coast margins were also strong, reflecting industry refinery maintenance patterns and strong seasonal demand.

Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $110 million, primarily associated with reduced turnarounds and maintenance activities. Timing effects represented a $250 million decrease to earnings, mainly due to the absence of positive year-end inventory effects recognized in the fourth quarter and unfavorable mark-to-market swings between quarters on derivatives tied to underlying physical assets. The absence of gains on asset transactions from the prior quarter decreased earnings by $460 million.

Turning to slide 12, International Downstream earnings improved by $88 million between quarters. Lower margins decreased earnings by $70 million. Marketing margins fell, largely the result of product pricing lag effects evident in both Asia and Australia.

Reduced operating expenses increased earnings by $120 million. Timing effects represented a $215 million decrease to earnings. As in the US segment, this represented the absence of favorable year-end inventory effects booked in the fourth quarter and adverse swings between the quarters in mark-to-market valuations on derivatives tied to underlying physical assets.

The absence of a one-time charge in the fourth quarter related to the economic buyout of a legacy pension liability increased earnings by $160 million. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items. The largest single component was favorable foreign currency effects.

With that, I would like to now turn it back to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: All right. Thanks, Jeff. Turning now to slide 13. In response to the downturn, we are aggressively pursuing cost savings.

Excluding fuel, operating costs in the first quarter are down 13% from the average 2014 quarter. To date, we have completed more than 2,200 supplier engagements, with 700 more in progress. We're working across all spend categories to negotiate supplier reductions and to rebid contracts when sufficient reductions have not been offered.

The results have been encouraging, with over $900 million of contract savings already negotiated. The pie chart shows Upstream spend categories, though our supplier cost-reduction effort, and the $900 million quoted is enterprise-wide.

This represents cash savings we expect to capture in 2015. We'll see it show up as the year unfolds in multiple ways: lower operating expenses, reduced capital outlays, and decreases in cost of goods sold.

Spend categories closer to the wellhead, and activities with shorter-term contracts as well as shorter cycle times from order date to delivery date, are seeing the sharpest declines. We are also seeing more immediate responsiveness from suppliers supporting our US operations.

Looking externally for improvements is only part of addressing our cost structure. We're also reengineering our internal work processes, initiating organizational reviews, rightsizing our work teams to better match spend and activity levels, and all of this to align with current market conditions. Our objective is a simpler, more efficient, more productive, and affordable organization that directly supports our business priorities.

Finally, we are pursuing capital and operating efficiencies throughout the organization, getting more for each dollar of spend. In the Upstream, we are applying our experience with running manufacturing-type operations to our shale and tight developments in the US and elsewhere. This is driving significant efficiency improvements and lowering the cost of our horizontal well programs in both the Midland and Delaware Basins.

In the Downstream, we are using tools like Lean Six Sigma to improve efficiency throughout our operations. In one specific example, we've shortened the downtime by 30% associated with terminal and tank inspection and maintenance activities, which should lead to sizable cost savings over time.

Turning to slide 14, you'll recall a key commitment from our March presentation related to covering our dividend in 2017 from free cash flow. We outlined how we intended to do that, and I'd like to put a few of our accomplishments into that context.

Cash flow growth is a near-term priority. While absolute prices in the first quarter were not favorable, our production was. Base business performance was strong, and our base decline rate was less than 2%.

We also continued to ramp up at Jack/St. Malo in the Gulf of Mexico. The fifth well is now online, and gross production is up to over 70,000 barrels per day of oil equivalent, exceeding initial expectations.

We completed some critical milestones on the Gorgon and Wheatstone LNG projects in Australia. At Gorgon, we started up the first gas turbine generator successfully, an important step in the overall plant commissioning process.

At Wheatstone, we successfully installed the topsides for the offshore production platform. We have posted new pictures today, and a video of both projects will be posted early next week. I encourage you to look at these on our investor website at Chevron.com.

Finally, our Downstream and Chemicals business is performing very well.

Reducing spend is our second priority. I've already talked through the cost structure savings we are pursuing. In addition to that, we're on a clear path to reduce capital spending over the next several years as our major capital projects come online and our spending flexibility increases.

Budgeted capital spending is planned at $35 billion this year, a 13% reduction from 2014. Cash spending this quarter is down 11% from first quarter a year ago. By 2017 we expect to have over $8 billion in additional C&E flexibility compared to 2015.

Finally, we are making excellent progress on our asset sales. We realized almost $6 billion in proceeds last year and will be adding nearly $4 billion to that in the first four months of this year, with the recently completed lease sales in Nigeria and the divestiture of Caltex Australia.

In 16 months we've achieved almost $10 billion in total sales proceeds, versus a $15 billion 48-month target. We will continue to sell assets when we can generate good value.

Moving to slide 15, I'd like to close by reiterating the near-term value proposition that Chevron offers. We expect to deliver industry-leading volume growth between now and 2017. That growth is sourced from Gorgon and Wheatstone in Australia; Jack/St. Malo and Big Foot in the Gulf of Mexico; and Mafumeira Sul and Angola LNG in Angola. In addition, we are poised for significant growth in our shale and tight resources, particularly in the Permian in the US.

On top of the pure volume growth, we also offer margin expansion. The cash margins associated with these projects primarily in the orange portion of the shaded bar, are projected higher than our cash margins today -- and many significantly so.

By 2017 we expect our cash margins on our overall portfolio to increase by approximately 35% from where they are today, assuming $60 average Brent price this year and $70 average Brent price in 2017, which is consistent with current futures prices. We believe that our outsized volume growth, combined with outsized margin growth, should lead to outsized value growth for our shareholders.

That concludes our prepared remarks, and I appreciate you listening in this morning. We are now ready to take some questions. Please keep in mind that we have a full queue, so try to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up, if necessary, and we will do our best to get all of your questions answered. So, Jonathan, please open the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, Pat; and congratulations, Jeff, on the move; and welcome to Frank. Just I guess a question around cash flow to start with. Thanks for shouting out the working capital; I think the market would have had kittens if it was a $2 billion CFO number.

Obviously, if you add net income and DD&A you get a higher number. I presume some of the deltas are things like dividends from associates being less than net income and the timing of tax payments -- if there is any color on that.

But my general question is: how does this cash flow stack up against your internal expectations for the quarter? Appreciate, obviously, the oil price is very low. Has anything changed in terms of your cash flow projections going forward in what you see as a more normalized oil price?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thanks, Ed. I appreciate the question. I appreciate everybody's interest in cash.

You're right. It was a low cash from operations quarter. But we did have $2 billion of adverse working capital effects, so if you added those back we would be at about $4.3 billion.

What I would say is if you looked at our sensitivity on oil price relative to prior quarters and look at it this quarter, it very much is in line; and in fact it's actually a little bit stronger than just the pure sensitivity would suggest. I'll just mention the number again for everybody, it's somewhere between $325 million and $350 million per $1.00 of Brent change. So we've had a significant drop in Brent prices, and therefore a significant drop in earnings as well as cash flow.

You're absolutely right, Ed, that there were some decrements relative to normal quarters in terms of the amount of affiliate distributions that we received. This quarter was, I would say, pretty minimal in terms of that. We do expect that to turn around in the subsequent three quarters, so that is just a timing issue.

In terms of how this looks relative to our plan going forward, if you'll recall the numbers that we showed you in March, the slides that we showed you with the financial projections, all assumed a $60 world for Brent. I think we are exactly in that phase, and so I look at our profile this year in terms of how our earnings have come in and cash has come in; and assuming we end up at a $60 world for Brent, which looks very reasonable given where the futures markets are, then I think we are exactly on plan and very consistent with the cash profile that we showed you back in March.

And you'll recall, for everybody, that we did have a significant deficit anticipated in 2015. Then we showed you the pattern of how we would move out of that deficit out to a 2017 point, getting full coverage of our dividend by 2017.

I mentioned the asset sales that we have. First quarter was nearly $1 billion; and here in April already, we have the CAL sale as well. So already through four months, we've got a significant contribution of about $4 billion. So asset sales are a key component there as well.

ED WESTLAKE: Thank you. I think I asked three questions in one, so I will defer to the next in line.

OPERATOR: Neil Mehta, Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, Pat, Jeff. Pat, I wanted you to talk through the dividend here and just how we are thinking about dividend growth. Historically, you've raised the dividend in the second quarter. Earlier this week, you kept it flat. So wanted to see if this represents a departure from views on dividend growth, or maybe just a change in the timing on when you evaluate it.

PAT YARRINGTON: That's a good question, Neil, and let me just start by saying that maintaining a competitive and growing dividend is our number-one priority. That has not changed. Our financial priorities have not changed. But what has changed is our immediate financial environment. The near-term environment has changed. So the Board chose not to increase the dividend this quarter. It is similar to what we did back in 2008 and 2009 when prices last fell significantly.

We are supporting a 3.8% yield, but clearly, we are not running very strongly on earnings or cash flow, at the moment, due to commodity prices. I think it's fair to say that the first quarter was not a very stable financial environment. It was very fluid in terms of both revenues and costs.

I think that our overall decision is going to be based on what we feel is affordable and supportable in perpetuity, because we don't want to get into a position where we are having to cut the dividend or trim the dividend in any way. And therefore, the timing and the size of an increase will be a function of how cash and earnings and asset sales, our major capital project execution and, frankly, future commodity prices.

That is a significant factor -- how those all play out in the coming quarters, and really how we see commodity prices playing out over a longer sweep of time. All of those factors will influence that decision.

NEIL MEHTA: Thanks, Pat. Then wanted to come back to your point on the Neutral Zone. I think, Jeff, you made the point that the financial impact would be limited or immaterial.

The number you shouted out there represents about 3% of your volume. So curious as to why any earnings impact could be immaterial. Is that because the margins associated with those barrels could be lower? And just a broader status update on the Wafra field would be helpful as well.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. Essentially you're right. The financial impact is minimal because of the relationship to margins, essentially.

Then on the steamflood status, we did have steam breakthrough, so we did have success in that pilot. It is our expectation to go into FEED later this year, perhaps around the third quarter.

But obviously depending upon circumstances and how they unfold over the next few weeks in these discussions between Saudi and the Kuwaitis in the Partitioned Zone, there could be somewhat of an impact there. I will say that there are discussions that are ongoing, underway.

This is obviously a very serious circumstance, and it's being taken seriously. So we put a lot of "could" and "potential" and words like that in our language because we really don't know. The hope is that this can get solved. We're optimistic that this can get solved.

NEIL MEHTA: Thank you, Pat; and Jeff, congratulations.

OPERATOR: Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, good morning, Pat; congrats, Jeff and Frank. First question is just on the OpEx. Thank you for the helpful color on that front.

I guess what I am wondering is, as we think about how the first quarter progressed on a year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter basis and what you called out, relative to -- I believe it was John's commentary last quarter, I think, last cycle you talked about a $4 billion save number, where you think you are in those structural saves opportunities, and how we should sequentially be thinking about this as we look ahead to 2Q and the second half.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. I mean I think that our profile, at least in we've seen so far in the first quarter, with all of the concerted and systematic effort that we've got underway throughout the entire enterprise, I feel that we should have really good operating expense trends as we move through the remaining three quarters of the year. We are seeing cost reductions over a whole series of cost categories anywhere from 10% to 20%.

Some of that, of course, will end up in opex expense; some of it will end up in capital expenditures, lower capital outlays. But I would just say from the response on the part of suppliers, the intensity with which we are pursuing this, the fact that if we are not getting the cost reductions that we were anticipating from a given supplier that we are willing to move market share and have done so -- all of that I think bodes very well for our bottom line and our cash spend, really, over the course of subsequent periods here.

PHIL GRESH: Just a clarification on that. If you were to maybe put it in terms of innings, like what you actually realized in the first quarter -- because I think the OpEx was down $600 million year-over-year; so I was just trying to make that foot with the $4 billion number and think about how far along you are versus -- are you actually in the early stages?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think we are in the very early stages in terms of what has been recognized in the first quarter results. So I think there is a lot of potential still to come.

JEFF GUSTAVSON: And, Phil, this is Jeff. Just to be clear, the $4 billion was a 2009 number, what we saw back in 2009. Nothing that we put out here recently.

PHIL GRESH: Understood. Just on -- my second question is on CPChem. I think there has been some discussion out there about the potential to maybe more efficiently leverage that balance sheet. So maybe you could just talk about your thoughts on that and whether there is any potential of that in 2015.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, sure. I mean in the past, CPChem has held debt, and then they've gone through a period here where they were generating tremendous amounts of cash and dividending that to their parents.

Now they are in a position where they have investment opportunities through that US Gulf Coast cracker project. So it would not be unreasonable to think that they would go into the debt market in order to fund some of their investment opportunities.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, good morning, everybody. Yes, look, thanks for the comment on the dividend; and maybe I'll try further there. I know in 2009 you raised the dividend in July off your typical April/May period for the raise, after a moderate commodity recovery. I know there are many factors and the Board ultimately sets the dividend.

Yet what is the key metric that's your focus when you're looking at that decision? And does it differ today at all because you're in a bigger project ramp-up period? And I have a follow-up; thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: So, Evan, I really think it's important to take a long-term view on the dividend and the outlook on cash and earnings over a longer sweep of time. So I think that is really more fundamentally the issue than where we happen to sit on our capital program at this particular point in time.

I think it's fair to say that with what's happened in oil markets in the last six to nine months, there is a complete reshaping of what's going on, a rebalancing of what's going on. And I think it's reasonable to think that taking some time to understand where things shake out for the long term is a very important and prudent step.

I don't want to get ahead of what the Board's views on this might be, so I can't really comment any further. The dividend is very important to us. We want to remain competitive on it.

We pay attention to our yield. We pay attention to our payouts on earnings and our payouts on cash flows.

We want to be competitive on this. We want to continue to grow it. So all I can say is it's got high priority, and this is something that gets looked at every single quarter, and profiles on out in terms of earnings and cash flows get looked at every quarter by the Board.

EVAN CALIO: Great. That's fair. I appreciate that. And a follow-up on the -- particularly, congratulations on the Caltex sale. On the Downstream, can you give us any idea how you'd expect that asset sale -- those asset sales have affected your returns in the Downstream portfolio? So as we roll forward with International -- I know it was non-consolidated, but how they compared relative to the rest of your portfolio and how that portfolio may look absent Caltex? Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, so I think you -- we should comment that it had a positive contribution, obviously, but I don't think it's going to be noticeable in any meaningful way. Its absence will not be noticeable in any meaningful way.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, yes. Fair enough. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Hi, good morning, everybody. And, Jeff, thank you for everything; it's been a pleasure.

JEFF GUSTAVSON: Thanks.

PAUL SANKEY: Could I just ask about the neutral zone again? How much did you assume for volumes in your targets for this year and for the 2017 3.1?

PAT YARRINGTON: This year would have been in the neighborhood of what we produced in the first quarter here, which was around the 76,000 barrels a day. We would have been anticipating a decline between 2015 and 2017 to something a little -- around 60,000, maybe 62,000 barrels a day in 2017.

PAUL SANKEY: Got it. So Pat, you are saying that basically the margins are so low there that regardless of losing whatever it is, 60,000, 70,000 barrels a day, the financial impact will literally be minimal?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes.

PAUL SANKEY: Wow, okay. That was the volume question.

Is there anything to add on the California Downstream market? And I will leave it there. Thanks a lot.

PAT YARRINGTON: I think in California, we had the fortunate position of having high reliability at a time when the overall industry market was very tight. It was tight for a couple of operational reasons related to other industry players.

As those get resolved -- and I think one has been resolved; one is going to take a little bit longer to resolve. But as those get resolved, then I think you would anticipate that the margins would move towards a more normal level.

Of course, second quarter is typically a reasonable margin period because of gasoline demand pickup. So there's seasonality factors there.

But, in general, I think it's fair to say that the West Coast margin was impacted significantly here in the first quarter because of these industry factors. And Chevron ran well, operated well, and was able to take advantage of that.

PAUL SANKEY: Pat, this is totally obscure. But I was wondering, was that part of -- was California part of the working -- why was the working capital movement so enormous in the quarter, I guess is what I should've asked? Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: No, it's a good question. It was really a function, when you look at all of the working capital elements here, the biggest driver is really just related to a disproportionate movement in the way our accounts payable and our accounts receivables moved over the quarter's period of time. Normally when you are in a more stable price environment, then you expect whatever happens in your receivables and payables to offset.

That did not happen in this particular period. So we had a net cash consumption of size related to accounts payable, receivables net. And this is where I said -- and I feel very comfortable saying -- that we expect this to unwind as the quarters progress.

PAUL SANKEY: I guess what I am driving at is the history of that typically is that the California operations have a lot of long-distance crude. Is that what we are talking about here? Or is there a dollar effect or something?

PAT YARRINGTON: No, it's not what we are talking about. In the past when we've talked about -- we've had working capital effects related to California; in many of those circumstances in the past that has been related to the operations, the specific operations or lack of operations at Richmond. That is not the scenario that we are talking about this year.

PAUL SANKEY: But I am still not clear why it's so big. I mean you say it's payables/receivables type move, but I just want to -- is it the dollar? What is it?

PAT YARRINGTON: It's just the rate of activity change between what's happened on your revenue side and what's happened on your cost side.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, I won't labor it. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, guys. First, Jeff, just want to say thank you for all the help over the last couple years and best of luck with your new assignment. And Frank, welcome aboard to the IR-land.

Pat, on the first quarter, the cost savings realization in the P&L, I think you mentioned talking about $600 million. How much of that is related to the [inaudible] in many of the area that you operate is much weaker than the US dollar; so, as a result, in US dollar term, the cost is down?

PAT YARRINGTON: So your question is about foreign exchange? The 600 -- roughly $580 million of foreign exchange?

PAUL CHENG: No, I'm not talking about the $580 million, which is related to the balance sheet translation. I'm talking about the actual operating cost. Because let's say you pay your employee in UK with the pound, and then get translated into your US dollar; even if the cost base remain the same in local currency, in US dollar it is much lower.

So that's the amount that I'm just curious -- of the $600 million how much is related to that?

PAT YARRINGTON: They are not related. Our operating expense -- an influence of foreign exchange on our operating expense is really pretty minimal through the quarter. It's more significant in terms of capital spending; but on an operating expense base, it is not a significant component that has led to the decline in operating expense between periods.

PAUL CHENG: Interesting. So given in many of your major operating areas, the dollar has strengthened against their local currency, but it's not much of an impact, you say?

PAT YARRINGTON: That's correct.

PAUL CHENG: I see. Okay. All right. That's fine. A final one that's real quick, overlifting and underlifting in the quarter?

PAT YARRINGTON: We're about 1.7% underlifted for the quarter.

PAUL CHENG: And, Pat, at the end of the quarter, are you still underlift? Or are you about neutral or overlift?

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't know. I just know for the quarter it was 1.7% and --

JEFF GUSTAVSON: No, at the end of the quarter, Paul, we were 1.7% underlifted. That is at the end of the quarter.

PAT YARRINGTON: At the end of the quarter, okay.

PAUL CHENG: And how about for the quarter itself?

PAT YARRINGTON: Within the quarter?

PAUL CHENG: Yes. Means that the quarter sales comparing to the quarter production, are we overlift or underlift?

JEFF GUSTAVSON: I will have to follow up with you on that one, Paul. I don't have that number with me. But the 1.7% is --

(multiple speakers)

JEFF GUSTAVSON: -- is the number that you should focus on.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, perfect. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. And Jeff, let me also say thanks for all your help; and welcome, Frank. I've got to say I'm optimistic on a better queue position with Frank. We will see how it goes.

Pat, on asset sales, you're two-thirds of the way through the $15 billion number. One can't help thinking there may be some upside yet again to that target. Could you frame for us how you are thinking about that?

And if I could tag on a related kind of issue, one of your competitors in your backyard in California seems pretty keen on asset sales. I'm just curious on the other side of the ledger, if you are taking a hard look at bolt-ons to your existing California position. And I do have an unrelated follow-up, please.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. We did just increase the target back in March, moving to the $15 billion over the four years. We're only six weeks later than that, approximately, now.

And even though the CAL sale is a significant transaction, and we're happy to have it behind us, I'm not in the position to change the overall target. I feel very comfortable about our ability to conclude the $15 billion over the next year and a half or so that are remaining. Actually, it's more than that; two and a half years that are remaining.

So I don't want to up that target, but I feel comfortable about our ability to hit that target in the time frame that we have said. CAL will be booked in the second quarter; it was not a first quarter item.

Then in terms of any sort bolt-on activity, obviously we look at circumstances, assets, and opportunities around the globe. We evaluate that all the time. I'm not going to speak specifically about anything that's under consideration or not under consideration.

It has a pretty high hurdle, is all I would say, in order to move into our portfolio at this time. Any sort of additional portfolio move like that would have a pretty high hurdle, because it would need to compete postacquisition for capital against the assets that we already have in queue.

DOUG LEGGATE: I appreciate that. My follow-up is -- I'm afraid I'm going to labor the working capital issue just a wee bit more, if I may. My sense is, at least when you have such a massive move in the oil price, or at least a slowdown in activity levels, that the payables that you would have as a source of working capital, as you pay those -- in other words, as cash goes out the door -- the subsequent payables that would replace those would be substantially lower, assuming your activity level was reduced.

So what I'm trying to understand is: where is your confidence, or can you help us walk through why, after such a move in the oil price, that working capital position would reverse out, if your activity level has moved to a lower level? Do you see what I mean?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I think it's really the combination. I look at these on a net basis, right? I look at the movement in your receivables and the movement in your payables. And as I say, as you get into a stable environment, any sort of price impact that you get typically moves through both of those in a relatively synonymous way or a synchronized way.

So when you are in a discontinuous situation like you had in the first quarter, I think when you get into a stable environment, if prices have come down and cost structure has come down, then you get into a matching there. That is what I am really trying to imply, is that as you move into that matching phase, that is where you will get the reversal, and you will return to a more normal relationship between receivables and payables.

DOUG LEGGATE: Is that through the course of the year, Pat? Or would you expect a more, a quicker resolution to that? Or is it going to grind higher or grind to rebounds over time? How would you characterize it?

PAT YARRINGTON: Accounts payable/receivables I would expect to begin reversing relatively quickly here. I think it's a trend, a change in pattern that you will see in the second quarter.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great. I will leave it there. Thanks very much, indeed.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: Folks, good morning; and I would also offer congratulations to both Jeff and Frank. I had two questions.

One, could you give an update on the recently formed JV you did in the Gulf of Mexico with Keathley Canyon? Any status update or game plan as you take over operatorship there?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I think I would like to leave a lot of that for our second quarter here, because our plans are to have Jay Johnson on the line with us in second quarter, and I think we will let the opportunities go there.

But we are very pleased with the joint development opportunity that we've got here. This really builds on our Anchor discovery and our Guadalupe discovery; and it combines the Tiber and Gila discoveries where BP had success there.

So we feel like it's a very good development opportunity, potentially for hubs, where you can get scale assets, economic assets, and go forward. We have a lot of continuing appraisal work to do, though. So I don't really want to say much more than that.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Fair enough. We can follow up next quarter with Jay. The second question, Pat, is really on the US in particular, where we saw negative earnings. I guess I viewed the Gulf and Permian as key growth areas where we would expect fairly high margins.

I realize there were some impairments one off in the quarter. But you highlight DD&A being elevated. Is it fair to believe that DD&A remains at an elevated level until we book additional reserves over time?

And if I could maybe just sneak in a follow-up on the Partitioned Zone, you mentioned the financial impact being minimal. I presume that applies to both earnings and cash flow; but if you could please just confirm that, I would appreciate it. Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. Just sticking with the Upstream loss position, I think we have to look at what the driver was here for the loss position. And obviously very poor realizations, only $43 a barrel in liquids realizations; gas overall was $2.25, roughly. So the significant decline in revenues.

I talked about what was happening on our cost structure side of things, but we're going to see the cost structure come down with lag effects. You are not going to see that in a first quarter period of time. So the cost structure is continuing to evolve. First quarter again was not a particularly pretty picture from a margin standpoint.

On depreciation, you're right; we are seeing elevated depreciation. And you would expect that depreciation to remain elevated, particularly for some of our deepwater assets, until we have time to do -- and we can see what the full recoverable -- we can document the full recoverable opportunity of that development play.

And back on PZ, it is the same earnings and cash.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Great. Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks very much. Hi, everyone. Just wanted to come to the milestones that you've achieved in Australia over the course of the quarter. The first question related to the first gas into the turbine at Gorgon.

That's obviously a huge milestone. Is that being accomplished with gas from your Io-Jansz offshore, or are you getting that from third-party sources? And if it's not Io-Jansz, do you still expect first gas somewhere around midyear?

PAT YARRINGTON: It's coming from domestic gas sources. And yes, our expectation really is to have -- we are on schedule to have Gorgon startup in the third quarter of this year and first gas before the end of the year.

JASON GAMMEL: You mean first commercial cargoes? Is that --?

PAT YARRINGTON: First commercial cargoes, sorry.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, great.

PAT YARRINGTON: First LNG before the end of the year.

JASON GAMMEL: Got it. Then, obviously, another major milestone achieved at Wheatstone with the topside placement. But I guess from a schedule standpoint, I would expect that the onshore has got the most potential for slippage, just from a risk standpoint. Can you talk about where you are at relative to schedule in terms of the onshore at Wheatstone?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. We are on schedule for Wheatstone. Obviously, the installation of the topsides on the steel gravity structure was a major milestone. But we've got seven of 24 major process modules that have been delivered on-site. The trunk line is installed and hydrotested.

The dredging is complete. The piling activities are completed. The roofs are on both of the LNG tanks, so we continued to make good progress both onshore and offshore.

I do encourage you to take a look at the pictures that are on the website, because you will be able to see the progress there.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay. Very good. Thanks, folks.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Thanks for taking the question. As you were getting into 2015, presumably there was a lift of FIDs the Company had on deck. Are there any of those, other than perhaps Kitimat, that have been pushed out or suspended since January 1?

PAT YARRINGTON: I would say the most significant, in fact the only really significant FID that is on plan for this year relates to TCO and the Future Growth Project. We continue to work that through to FID. Obviously, it's an opportunity for us to take advantage of a lower cost structure, so we continue to do more detailed engineering and work through the cost estimates, continue to work with our partners and the government on this. So our expectation is fourth quarter FID on that one.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, understood.

PAT YARRINGTON: In terms of the other FID projects, part of the reduction that we took in our capital spending from 2014 to 2015 really did relate to the pacing of other major capital projects. Kitimat is a primary one there; we've moved that -- I guess I would say the spending on that out considerably. We're really only limiting ourselves here to appraisal work and continuing to look at the design and the cost structure of that.

Indonesia deepwater development would've been another one. That has moved out. So there are several other FIDs or pre-FID projects that we have pushed C&E monies into future years.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: If I can ask a follow-up about the Downstream segment, you've been pretty vocal in the past about the frustrations with California policy on carbon emissions in particular. Given the decision last week to extend those rules out the 2030, does that change your view about perhaps retaining any of the California refining assets?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I would just say that we are in a very advantaged California position. We've got two very strong, very competitive assets at Richmond and El Segundo. We've got very good market positions, very good brand strength.

So it is a quality asset that we have here, and our expectation is that we will be able, over time, to work within whatever the regulatory framework is. At the same time, we do still think it's important to alert customers and alert government officials as to what the cost of compliance is for some of these programs.

The AB 32, the cap-and-trade portion, fuels-under-the-cap came into effect in January of this year, and there are costs, new costs, associated with being a refiner in the state as a result of that. Now it does get passed on to consumers. So as that continues to move forward, then of course that cost increase could be something that consumers and regulators will be increasingly aware of.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great, thanks. Good morning, everybody. And let me be one of the last to wish you good luck, Jeff, in the next assignment. And welcome, Frank.

If I could just go maybe with a couple specific ones. Angola LNG, I think at the Analyst Day you updated you expected it to come onstream during the fourth quarter of this year, back onstream. Is that -- any update on progress there?

That was maybe a little bit earlier than some of our expectations. Maybe what all did you end up having to do to the project to get it ready for this year?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Work is still underway, significantly underway. The overall plan is to still have Angola LNG restart with LNG to the tank in the fourth quarter of this year, probably late in the fourth quarter this year; and then begin to ramp up to about 75% of capacity by the first quarter of 2016.

As is common, the plant will run for a period of time and then ALNG will make a decision as to whether or not they need to take the plant down to perform any sort of shutdown, strainer removal, that kind of cleanup activity. And they'll decide at that point in time whether or not they want to do that early in the first part of 2016.

In any case, we would expect ALNG to reach maximum capacity in the second quarter of 2016, if they decide to do those strainer removals.

RYAN TODD: Great; I appreciate that. Then maybe just one general one. I think you have a couple comments in your release, but would appreciate any clarity as we have varying views from different companies over -- in recent times. Any view on general product demand both in the US and globally, what you are seeing across your system? Any demands (technical difficulty) weak or strong in different parts of system as well?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, I would say that going forward here -- and I am thinking really globally here -- that there are some leading indicators that would suggest that product demand is strengthening, I guess I would say modestly. And overall, probably have an overall demand profile for 2015 that would be somewhat stronger than 2014 from an oil consumption standpoint.

RYAN TODD: And in the US, I think in your release it said the product sales were -- I can't remember. They were flat year on year versus 1Q 2014. Is that US gasoline? Is that same-store sales across your system, or what number is that?

PAT YARRINGTON: I'm not sure. Which number are you talking -- are you looking at? Are you looking in the release itself?

RYAN TODD: Yes, I think it said branded gasoline sales were essentially flat with 2014, so I am guessing that is kind of a same-store sales.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, it's not -- it's our total network sales. Total network sales. It's really just a fact -- a function of our branded distribution, right?

RYAN TODD: Okay.

PAT YARRINGTON: I mean our network hasn't changed significantly between periods of time.

RYAN TODD: That's helpful. All right. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Roger Read, Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Yes, good morning. I guess I'd like to follow-up; it hasn't gotten much airtime this time around. Permian: give us an update maybe what you are doing there, maybe your progression on rig count, and then also how the cost deflation is flowing through there.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Our current outlook really for the Permian is to have about 21 rigs running. Currently, in the March meeting, we said it was something closer to 25. We expect to have about 325 gross wells this year, and that's down a little bit from what we said just a few weeks ago.

Some of the reduction in the wells is due to a shift to horizontal drilling programs versus vertical drilling programs. Some of it also relates to joint-venture arrangements where our joint development partner has reduced their activity levels compared to plan.

We are transitioning more and more to horizontal work as opposed to vertical work. Horizontal wells obviously work better in this kind of a price environment.

I would just say that we are seeing very good well by well improvement in costs in each of these wells going forward. I think the cost reduction efforts are finding their way through to our overall drilling and completion costs, and we'll be happy to give you a larger update, more in-depth update on our second-quarter call.

ROGER READ: Okay, and then the other question I had, if we could get back to -- it was chart 14, you talked about flexibility in your spending going forward. I didn't catch the number; but I was just wondering if we should think about that as a -- if, number one, you would give us a number.

Number two, can we think about that as ratable as we work through? Or is it very much going to be chunky as, for example, Gorgon gets going at the end of this year and obviously the CapEx drops off? And then how that may change the way the future FID process will work its way through as well.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. The number that we provided between 2015 and 2017 is $8 billion cumulatively. I think it's reasonable for you to think about that as reasonably ratable. I mean, it does really depend and is influenced heavily by the Gorgon and Wheatstone spend falloff. But I think for purposes of what you are most likely doing, I think thinking about it as being reasonably ratable makes sense.

ROGER READ: Okay. That's it for me. Thanks. And Jeff and Frank, good luck in new ventures; and, Frank, I guess we will be talking to you quite a lot more.

OPERATOR: Brad Heffern, RBC Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFERN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hey, good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking my questions. I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about how cost savings that you've realized to date have aligned with what was contemplated by your original CapEx budget, if you are seeing cost deflation happen more quickly than you would have expected.

I'm just looking at the International CapEx number for the first quarter and it's down $2 billion. Is that good cost savings, or is that just normal inter-quarter volatility?

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. I would say in general, the cost savings that we are seeing and that we anticipate seeing would probably be somewhat stronger than what we had baked into our $35 billion budget. That's really just a function of when we were doing the budget and what we were anticipating, versus what we are -- we believe being able to secure going forward.

I don't think you will have seen much of that in the quarter-to-quarter comparisons as of yet. So what you are seeing quarter-to-quarter comparisons really has more to do with the pattern of actual spending from fourth to first.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay, understood. Just thinking about that, if you prorate the first quarter for the full year, you're already below the $35 billion number. How should we think about the CapEx trajectory throughout 2015?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, I think you should think about it as being relatively evenly paced. The $35 billion target is what we expect to hit at the end of the year.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150503eb51007vg
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  Chevron  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,328 words
   PD
30 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Jonathan, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's fourth-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. John Watson. Please go ahead.

JOHN WATSON, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's fourth-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, our Chief Financial Officer, and Jeff Gustavson, the General Manager of Investor Relations.

We will refer to the slides that are available on our website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

Turning to slide 3, I would like to highlight some of our key accomplishments for the year starting with safety and environmental performance. We had our best year ever on virtually every measure of personal safety, process safety and environmental performance. We expect to lead the industry again.

Although commodity prices fell sharply late in the year, our overall financial performance was strong. Upstream and downstream had solid years overall and both ended the year with very good reliability. We had excellent progress on our asset divestment program with significant well-timed upstream sales in Chad and in Canada and high valuation midstream transactions. In the first year of the program, we finalized just under $6 billion in divestments versus the $10 billion three-year target for the period 2014 to 2016. We will update this target at our March meeting.

Looking at our downstream business, we completed important reliability investments at several of our key refineries which contributed to high utilization rates in the second half of the year. We became the world's largest premium base oil producer with the startup of a 25 thousand barrel per day plant at our Pascagoula, Mississippi refinery. We continued to make progress on our US Gulf Coast petrochemicals project through Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, our 50% owned affiliate. It is now 50% complete(speaker corrected himself later in presentation to 35%).

Moving to the upstream business, we started up Jack/St. Malo, which is ramping up ahead of plan and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico. In Bangladesh, we successfully expanded production at the Bibiyana Field.

On our LNG projects in Australia, Gorgon is now 90% complete. We are targeting first gas into the system around the middle of the year and first LNG sales this year.

Wheatstone made excellent progress and is 55% complete and on track for late 2016 startup. We've posted a number of photos highlighting our construction progress on these two important projects on our investor webpage.

We have progressed development of our shale and tight resource holdings notably in the Permian. We had one of our best years from an exploration and resource capture standpoint with 35 discoveries at a 66% success rate. We added 1.4 billion oil equivalent barrels with significant conventional and unconventional adds. We had two potential hub class discoveries in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico and we announced the transaction yesterday to consolidate holdings around one of them.

Our one-year reserve replacement ratio was 89% taking our five-year replacement ratio to 96%.

With that, I will turn it over to Pat who will take you through our financial results. Pat?

PAT YARRINGTON, VP AND CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, John. Slide 4 provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's fourth-quarter earnings were $3.5 billion, or $1.85 per diluted share. For the year earnings were $19.2 billion. This equates to a $10.14 per diluted share.

Return on capital employed was 11% and our debt ratio at year end was 15%. 2014 marked the 27th consecutive year that we have increased our dividend payments. Given the change in market conditions, we are suspending our share repurchase program for 2015.

Turning to slide 5, cash generated from operations was $6.5 billion for the fourth quarter. For the full year cash from operations totaled $31.5 billion. Cash capital expenditures were $9.7 billion for the quarter and $35.4 billion for the full year. At year-end, our cash and cash equivalents totaled more than $13 billion giving us a net debt position of about $15 billion.

Slide 6 compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year. Fourth-quarter 2014 earnings were approximately $1.5 billion lower than fourth-quarter 2013 results. Upstream earnings decreased $2.2 billion between quarters. Lower crude realizations and asset impairments driven by the sharp decline in crude oil prices during the second half of the year and higher DD&A charges were partially offset by higher gains on asset sales and lower exploration expenses.

Downstream results increased by $1.1 billion driven by stronger international refining and marketing margins, higher gains on asset sales and favorable timing effects. The decrease in the other segment primarily reflected higher corporate charges and tax items.

Turning to slide 7, I will now compare results for the fourth quarter of 2014 with the third quarter of 2014. Fourth-quarter earnings were $2.1 billion lower than third-quarter results. Upstream earnings decreased by approximately $2 billion reflecting lower realizations and asset impairments partially offset by higher gains on asset sales and more favorable foreign exchange effects.

Downstream earnings increased by $130 million driven by favorable timing effects and gains on asset sales, partially offset by higher operating expenses and a one-time economic buyout of a legacy pension obligation. The decrease in the other segment largely reflected higher corporate charges.

Moving to slide 8, our US upstream earnings for both the fourth quarter were about $500 million lower than third quarter results. Lower liquids realizations decreased earnings by $600 million consistent with the approximate 25% decline in the US liquids price indicators between periods. The decline in price has also triggered impairments of several smaller assets, which negatively affected earnings by $90 million.

Higher gains on asset sales improved earnings by $160 million. The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including unfavorable tax effects, which were more than offset by the absence of the economic buyout of a long-term contractual transportation obligation in the third quarter.

Turning to slide 9, international upstream earnings were about $1.5 billion lower than last quarter's results. Lower crude oil prices negatively impacted earnings by $1.4 billion. Our average international crude oil realizations were down $25 per barrel between quarters consistent with the decline in Brent prices. The significant drop in prices triggered impairments for several late in life assets, decreasing earnings by $570 million between periods.

Higher operating costs reduced earnings by $110 million. Gains on asset sales increased earnings by $670 million mainly driven by the farm down of a 30% interest in our Duvernay shale interests in Canada as well as the sale of our upstream business in the Netherlands.

Slide 10 summarizes the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the fourth quarter and third quarter of 2014. Net production increased by 14 thousand barrels per day between quarters. Major capital project startups and growth from shale and tight resource developments contributed 13 thousand barrels per day.

Project startups included the expansion of the Bibiyana Field in Bangladesh as well as the startup of Tubular Bells and Jack/St. Malo in the US Deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Jack/St. Malo achieved first production in December, on time and on budget.

Entitlement effects increased production by 13 thousand barrels per day between quarters. Lower crude prices increased volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts, partially offset by lower cost recovery volumes. Higher planned turnaround activity at TCO's Tengiz SGI/SGP facility in Kazakhstan early in the quarter and turnaround activity in Thailand and in Australia decreased production by 19 thousand barrels per day.

Asset sales in the Netherlands, South Texas and Norway negatively affected production by 11 thousand barrels a day between quarters. The increase of 18 thousand barrels per day in the base business and other bar reflects primarily higher reliability from Tengiz following the previously mentioned turnarounds completed earlier in the quarter.

Slide 11 compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between 2014 and 2013. Net production declined by 26 thousand barrels per day during 2014 compared to the prior year. Shale and tight production increased by 41 thousand barrels per day driven primarily by growth in the Midland and Delaware basins in the Permian as well as the Vaca Muerta in Argentina. Ramp-up associated with Papa Terra in Brazil and the expansion of the Bibiyana Field in Bangladesh increased production by 13 thousand barrels per day.

Production entitlement effects decreased production by 14 thousand barrels per day. Price effects were positive due to the decrease in crude oil prices of almost $10 per barrel between years. These were more than offset, however, by negative entitlement effects in Kazakhstan and lower cost recovery volumes in Bangladesh and Indonesia.

Asset sales decreased production by 12 thousand barrels a day due primarily to the sale of our Chad asset earlier in the year. The base business and other bar principally reflects normal field declines partially offset by base business investments in Nigeria, in the San Joaquin Valley and in the Gulf of Mexico. Our base business continues to perform well with a managed decline rate of less than 3% per year.

Turning to slide 12, US downstream results increased $80 million between quarters. Realized margins decreased earnings by $190 million. Refining margins were weaker on both the West and the Gulf Coasts as the decrease in product prices outpaced the decline in crude oil prices. This reflected abundant supply, high inventories and lower seasonal demand.

Timing effects represented a $195 million improvement in earnings between the quarters largely driven by year-end inventory effects and marking to market on derivatives tied to underlying physical positions.

Higher gains on midstream asset sales improved earnings by $210 million. The other bar consists of several unrelated items mainly unfavorable tax effects and higher operating expenses primarily associated with planned shutdown activity.

Turning to slide 13, International downstream earnings increased by $51 million between quarters. Higher margins particularly in Asia increased earnings by $280 million. Refining margins benefitted from falling crude prices while marketing margins were supported by favorable price lag effects for naphtha and jet fuel.

Inventory effects represented $100 million improvement in earnings between quarters mostly reflecting favorable year-end LIFO impacts. A one-time charge related to the buyout of a legacy pension liability decreased earnings by $160 million. The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including higher operating expenses and unfavorable foreign currency effects.

With that, I will turn back to John for a few comments on 2015.

JOHN WATSON: Okay. Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 14, earlier today we announced a $35 billion capital program for 2015. This is $5 billion or 13% lower than last year. Excluding expenditures by affiliates, the cash component of this program is $31 billion. This program is lower than we signaled last March and is responsive to current market conditions. It funds key projects where we have taken final investment decision and are already under construction.

In the upstream this amount is approximately $14 billion represented in the dark blue bar on this chart. It includes monies for Gorgon, Wheatstone, Jack/St. Malo, Big Foot and others. This category of spend will decline in the future as projects are completed.

Base business and shale spending, in medium blue on the chart, is about $12 billion. A portion of this base business spend includes critical maintenance and reliability work which has limited flexibility. The majority of the base spend, including shale and tight, is being screened at current prices. We have increasing flexibility in this component of spend as the year progresses.

Spending on pre-FID projects and exploration work is being high-graded, paced and significantly reduced in response to market conditions. Downstream spending of $3 billion is limited to key projects under construction such as the Gulf Coast chemical project, which by the way is 35% complete -- I think I said 50% earlier -- 35% complete. And the spending in the downstream is also limited to critical, reliability and maintenance work.

Turning to slide 15, we have reduced our capital budget for the year conserving cash and preserving value. We also are reducing the costs of goods and services and operating expenses. We enter this period of lower prices with a very competitive cost structure. We routinely show you a chart that tracks total cost per barrel in our upstream business relative to our competitors. You have seen we are an industry leader and we have significant cost reduction efforts underway.

This chart shows the IHS Upstream Cost Index. Industry costs have more than doubled in the last decade. Market conditions will create surplus capacity in most key supply chain categories and drive rates lower. We are actively engaged with all suppliers and have enjoyed early success. We expect the opportunity will grow with time and particularly so if prices remain low.

We're also taking action to reduce internal costs. You may have seen press coverage of staffing adjustments in the UK and Pennsylvania. We have other reviews underway in multiple other operating and corporate units. Managing costs aggressively is not new to us. Mike Wirth was quite successful in making significant reductions in the downstream in recent years and if you go back and look at our financial statements in 2008 and 2009, you will see that we took operating and administrative costs down $4 billion or about 15% between years in response to that brief price excursion. We know how to manage costs.

Our production guidance is a range of flat to 3% growth. The uncertainty is a reflection of market conditions. I will highlight several of those uncertainties. First, we have had great success in the base business area limiting decline in mature fields to 3% or less in many years. Our shale programs in the Permian and elsewhere continue. But I have indicated we are screening the spend at current prices. I have also indicated we are active in our efforts with vendors and suppliers to reduce costs. The uncertainty in prices and the cost of goods and services create some uncertainty in the amount of base business investment and the decline rate and growth from our shale resources.

Second, we have had success in our asset sale program. The full-year effect of last year's sales reduces production 22 thousand barrels a day from 2014. There is uncertainty in the timing and precise composition of this year's asset sale program creating uncertainty in the additional volume impact. Remember, we are driven on all sales by value and this can influence timing.

Third, the contributions from major capital project ramp-ups and startups this year is significant but relatively small movement in the timing of deepwater development wells at Jack/St. Malo, Tubular Bells or Papa Terra, can make a significant difference in annual production. Similarly, small movements in restart dates for Angola LNG or startup of Gorgon and other new projects can cause variation.

Finally, production sharing contract and other entitlement effects are sensitive to prices and spend levels. Our 3.1 million barrel a day target for 2017 remains on track as the major projects under construction drive that outcome.

That concludes our prepared remarks. I appreciate you listening in this morning. We are now ready to take some questions. Keep in mind that we do have a full queue so please try to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up if necessary. We will do our best to get all of your questions answered.

So Jonathan, please open up the lines and we will take some questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Certainly, thank you. (Operator Instructions). Jason Gammel, Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: John, I just want to ask about taking FID in the current price environment. You spoke about how you were seeing -- beginning to see cost savings from your providers and is that something where you would probably just try to delay making an FID to see how that type of negotiation goes with suppliers, or do you expect that you will actually have some fairly significant FIDs this year? And I am really thinking Tengiz's expansion as much as anything else here.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, and I think that's the key one to focus on. We have many projects that are in concept development and front-end engineering and design and so the overall economics of some of them are impacted by the current price environment. But the project at Tengiz is a good project, and that project will ultimately go forward and we have made significant progress and have good alignment with our partners on that.

But we are taking the opportunity in the current price environment to take a look at contracts, take a look at spend and see if we can bring costs down further.

Now we have in the plan an expectation that we will take a final investment decision later in the year in 2015. Other than that I can't think of too many significant projects where we are likely to take FID this year.

JASON GAMMEL: And then just as a follow-up, John, do you have any deflation built into the capital budget for 2015, or is it all reduced activity levels?

JOHN WATSON: It's a little bit of both, Jason. For example we have dropped over 20 rigs, which is about 15% of our worldwide rig count. So, as I said, we are screening projects based on the current level of prices if the return is near at hand. So if you have short-cycle base business or shale investments, and they don't meet investment hurdles at current prices, which is the revenue you are likely to realize, we are pulling them from the program. And we've cut rigs all over the world.

Now many things continue to pass the hurdle and so we are continuing with our development. For example, our work in the Permian passes the hurdles and so we are continuing that and have had good success. But we are also taking on costs in a fairly big way if you look around the world. You know, rigs get a lot of attention but that's actually not the biggest category of spend. EPC costs, well construction services, transportation, the fab yards are going to empty out here and rigs, we are taking on all of these things. And we have a centralized procurement organization as well as a lot of people in our business unit that are taking advantage of the opportunity and spare capacity in the supply chain. It varies considerably depending upon the category of spend that we're talking about and the precise timing.

On rigs, we had one offer in one location around the world of a 50% reduction in rig rate. We have already captured retroactive to January 1, rig reductions in some areas. So we are taking this on in a big way and we have targets. We have baked in a little bit into our numbers but this is a very fast-moving market and the longer this downturn persists, the more we are likely to capture and the more it will be reflected in the major categories of spend like EPC costs and major fab yard spending that we might make on projects.

JASON GAMMEL: Thanks, John. I appreciate your comments.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: John, so this is a high-level picture, and a yes/no answer probably. Has anything changed to your view that oil demand is growing and has anything changed about the decline rates that you feel the industry has to overcome?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, overall the general picture that I've laid out to you before and we've talked about is that as long as the world economy grows there is a reasonable correlation between world economic growth and growth in energy demand. If the world economy grows 3% to 4% we tend to see 1% to 2% growth in energy consumption. In our view, maybe 1% for oil, 2% for gas over that time period, So that general picture hasn't changed.

Now it can be influenced in the short run by macro events and prices and things of that sort.

One of the things that we are trying to get a handle on and that others are looking at is how responsive will global demand be to the price reduction. If you look at some of those who follow this very closely, they could see increases of 300 thousand to 500 thousand barrels a day from lower prices. But you've also got countries around the world that are reducing demand-side subsidies and things of that sort. So it's a function of economics, and it depends how long this persists.

Truck sales in the US are doing pretty well right now. So I think we will get a bump from lower prices, and I think we will see growth of perhaps a million barrels a day in demand worldwide in 2015. But that number can move around a little bit.

ED WESTLAKE: And then specifically, Gorgon you have kind of reiterated the timetable. Can you give us any nuggets to give you confidence that we will get that first gas in Gorgon midyear and the first LNG cargo this year?

JOHN WATSON: Well, there is nothing that's a higher priority for us right now than that, Ed. And as I said, we are 90% complete. We've got 8 thousand people on the site right now. That's a little more than we might have told you in the past. We've brought in a bigger accommodation vessel and so we put more people on site. We've made terrific progress on the upstream side; basically all 18 wells have been drilled, all upstream sub-sea infrastructure is in place. Pipeline installation is complete. You can see a lot of this on the website. So those things are good.

So we are working all those things very hard. We have got really mechanical, electrical, and instrumentation work that is in high gear, right now and we are basically milestone driven in commissioning and starting up systems right now. And that's really our focus.

We are monitoring very closely contractor performance and productivity on the island. We are working with the unions on contracts and industrial relations. We have been able to manage through those things fairly well, and we are planning for a flawless commissioning and start-up process. We've got risks of adverse weather that are there but look, we are shooting to get gas into the system in the middle of the year timeframe and get some cargoes out this year. That's our focus.

George and Jay Johnson are heading down there here in February. So when we come back in March at the analyst meeting, we will have some very fresh information for you.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Alastair Syme, Citi.

ALASTAIR SYME, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Could I just come back to the chart on CapEx. I'm just trying to get a feel for how the different buckets of CapEx are moving year on year, so the base business and the projects under construction, where the big revisions are.

JOHN WATSON: Sure. Spending has come down $5 billion overall. Some of that is in LNG spend. It was a little over $10 billion in 2014 in total. It is a little over $8 billion planned in 2015. So that's a little bit of the spend.

Deepwater spend is relatively flat. Shale and tight spend is a little bit higher. But some of our other base business spend is down. We've got about 10% to 15% reduction in exploration expense between years and of course, we also have those midcycle projects, those that are in concept design or engineering. There are fewer of those. There's less spend in those categories this year than in the past.

So we are working very hard on all of those costs. Of course, you may be asking about how do those categories look going forward. And we do expect growing flexibility in our spend as we move forward. One of the things we will show you in March when we get there is that bottom bar, those projects under construction, the $14 billion, that number comes down in time.

The LNG spend this year and next will continue to be significant, but as we get to 2017, it is under $1 billion. So I expect you will see some reduction in that category. Now, we may take FID on some projects, so you may have some additional spend in that category. But in principle, there's a very high roll-off rate from that category of projects under construction.

The base business spend is a function of both economics and how much we can wring out of the system from a cost point of view. So there is activity, and there is the cost of that activity, and I commented on some of the trends that we are seeing in that category.

I will say this about exploration. We are going to continue to explore. We had fabulous success, particularly toward the end of 2014, in the Gulf of Mexico with a couple of discoveries and the transaction we had with a couple of other players in the business. So we will continue to high-grade that activity, but we have growing flexibility in all categories is, I guess, the comment I would like to leave you with.

ALASTAIR SYME: Could you give us some sort of sense about, as you dial down that base business spend in 2015, what impact that might have on underlying decline rates in the business?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, I think that's a risk for the industry. I think there was a comment earlier. I think that is a growing risk for the industry. If you go back to 2008 and 2009 period, and this is a hard number to get at but we saw an increase worldwide in decline rates for all companies, basically for the entire industry, increase by a percent or two. And that's very significant.

We have done a good job of keeping decline rates to 3% or less, and I think we've got a good chance to do that but obviously when you cut some rigs you have some risk of a higher decline rate in 2015 relative to past years.

ALASTAIR SYME: Thank you. That's very helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: My question just to follow-up on CapEx, and I appreciate that it is a fluid process. On your current guidance today, where do you expect the production impact? It doesn't appear to impact the guide for 2015 at least in the high end? Is it altering that 2017 guide, or is it really much more long-dated impact given the longer cycle time of a lot of your resource?

JOHN WATSON: Evan, you just hit it. The impact is predominantly over the longer term because we are continuing with the projects under construction, and we are deferring some projects and spend that could have some impact on production, but it's generally outside the window that we are talking about.

For example, the Tengiz project will be a good project, but it's not going to produce volumes inside the 2017 window. Similarly, when you make reductions in exploration spend, you are not going to impact production inside the window. So I would think of most of it as being a long-dated impact.

EVAN CALIO: And the 3%, the 2015 production guidance, that's on current prices, I presume? Assuming no asset sales is I guess how I read the sensitivity. Obviously there is PSC effect there and asset sales? Is that correct? That is based on current prices? Current strip?

JOHN WATSON: It is. I think it really governs the full range. It's a pretty good range, frankly. Normally we have given point estimates but there are a lot of moving categories this time so it really encompasses the range of outcomes that are possible based on where we are today.

For example, as you point out at lower prices you do get a benefit in some of our PSC agreements from those lower prices. Where you spend money it takes more barrels to repay costs, for example, on cost barrels. But the flipside is that you may spend less. And so there will be less to recover. For example, we are reducing spend and have cut some rigs in Indonesia in response to economics. So you do have some offsets in these categories, and of course depending upon when you make asset sales, that has a direct impact on volumes.

EVAN CALIO: And just a follow-up if I could, you mentioned you continue to monitor and be responsive to market conditions so I presume that further cuts would be responsive to a deterioration in market conditions.

And then I guess you gave -- I like the classification on slide 14. I guess how much of the $12 billion base is being spent in 2015 on shorter cycle that may be more controllable if conditions warranted?

JOHN WATSON: Well, virtually everything in that category is shorter cycle activity. There are some critical maintenance and reliability investments that we'll continue to make. Same thing in the downstream. You need to keep your facilities running and in good shape. So there is a category that I would say is inflexible that is in the base business. Although the cost of delivering those goods and services may go down during the period, the activity itself will continue.

From an activity point of view as time goes by and rig contracts roll off, we have growing flexibility in this category. Ultimately you have a great deal of flexibility in this category of spend. But as I say -- and we will be responsive to market conditions and screen activity out if it doesn't meet our thresholds.

EVAN CALIO: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: If I could follow up with a question on pricing in the current environment. Between the changes in the LNG market that we've seen in terms of where LNG is coming from, in particular potentially a ramp in US supply and then the reduction, the collapse that we've seen in oil price, are you seeing anything in potential LNG market pricing either for existing projects or for future projects? Any change in the trends?

JOHN WATSON: Any change in the trends? Well, it has been a very fluid environment and, frankly there's been a lot of pressure on LNG pricing both in response to immediate conditions and response to the projects that have gone to FID around the world. So there is pressure on LNG markets.

Notwithstanding that, we did sign a contract during this period that's an oil-linked contract with a reputable company for a medium-term slice of volume toward the end of the decade, which gets us up into the range where we feel pretty good about the projects Gorgon and Wheatstone where we will basically be at our target for sales. We will be between 75% and 80% on Gorgon and 85% for Wheatstone. So we feel in pretty good shape.

Now, we obviously need good contracts that underpin new developments, so one of the projects that we are pacing until we can see conditions that will support a project is at Kitimat in Canada. We are continuing with some of the work we have underway to delineate the resource and reach agreements with First Nations people and permitting and things of that sort. But we are significantly pacing the spend of that project and we will get alignment on it and have good alignment in early days with Woodside, which has replaced Apache.

Other than that I think people are pretty cautious right now in the LNG market. Our view is it is not clear that all the brownfield projects, excuse me, greenfield projects that are being contemplated can meet economic hurdles at some of the prices we are seeing.

RYAN TODD: Great. Maybe that --

JOHN WATSON: And demand is out there.

RYAN TODD: Right. Maybe speaking of Kitimat, that's a good transition to a second question, which is from a high-level strategic view, when you look out from here over the next 10 years, has your view of the future changed at all in the sense that when you look back I guess over the last 10, are there projects, business models, efforts that have been part of your business model in the last five to 10 years that when you look forward over the next 10 you think just may not work anymore whether it's large-scale gas projects or oil sands or any type of -- I guess your views at high level on changes in the industry over the next 10 versus the last 10?

JOHN WATSON: My basic view, in fact referencing the question that was asked earlier, is energy demand continues to grow. If you look at the decline curve that is inherent in our business, and let's talk about the oil side for a moment, oilfields decline worldwide roughly 15% a year without investment. The industry works very hard with base business investments to attenuate that decline every year. But still you do get declines of 3% to 5% industrywide. So you need new oilfields to meet demand.

The 3% to 5% decline on a 90 plus million barrel a day base is significant. And so you need investments in new fields. And $50 does not support large new field developments and what I would call the big volumes that are going to contribute to meeting demand whether it's oil sands, deepwater aren't supported at $50.

So that's why you are seeing forward prices, and most in the industry expecting to see some rebound in prices, because we simply won't be able to support those projects at those kinds of prices.

Now in the short run when you have a supply that is exceeding demand in our business, short run supply and demand are not very responsive to prices. So it takes that decline kicking in or action by OPEC or a stronger economic growth to close that gap and that is what will be required here over the next period of time to get prices into a range where they can support the sorts of projects that you are referencing.

Our view is those forces are at work right now, and we can debate when that gap will close but the forces are at work and with every announcement of C&E cuts, it is more likely to happen sooner.

So my basic view is the world needs energy, and the prices have to support the activity, and of course we monitor the cost environment that we are in. We can see short run reductions in costs that can make projects more economic, but in general, the projects that are going to meet demand going forward are more complex than 20 or 30 years ago. And so the cost of those projects will be higher and require higher price than we are seeing today to meet the volume targets. Probably a long explanation but that's how we think of it.

RYAN TODD: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: John, often times that risks also come opportunity and especially that you foresee maybe longer that potentially that you could have distressed assets out there in the US and maybe also overseas. So from a high level, how do you guys look at under that circumstances how much are you willing to use your balance sheet or perhaps risk your balance sheet a little bit, and also to use perhaps your currency, not necessary at the best point that you want, but will you be willing to also use it in a decent sized transaction?

JOHN WATSON: Over time, Paul, you and I have talked many times, over the years we are a depleting resource business so we have to acquire leases, discovered resource and frankly companies over time, and we are very targeted in how we do that. And we try to be commercially smart and take advantage of the opportunities when there's less competition for those assets. So we are actively screening the opportunities that are out there and we will take advantage of opportunities that we see.

One that is on the smaller end of the scale but just a couple of days ago we did announce a consolidating transaction in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico with a couple of partners, and we think we've acquired resource at a competitive cost relative to exploration costs. And there are benefits to all parties from working to develop a common set of assets together in one hub. So, we do take a look at the opportunities that are before us.

Now I have to tell you, our priority right now isn't acquisitions. Our priority at the moment is completing the projects that are under construction and we do have balance sheet parameters that we work within to do that. But you point out on a relative basis we've got a pretty good currency, and we are mindful of the opportunity set that are there.

PAUL CHENG: Can I just follow up with a quick question. That in your supply costs, any rough idea of what is the percent of your supply contract whether it is rig, EPC, those have a duration longer than two years. So in other words, what is the percentage of your cost base both in capital and operating costs that potentially we could see the benefit from the deflationary environment that we are expecting over the next 12 to 18 months?

JOHN WATSON: We have a number of contracts that roll off during that period. I would say by the time you get to 2017, almost all spend becomes variable, if you will. So in fact a lot of it this year rolls off. Now we do have deepwater rig contracts that have been staggered and go out a few years. We do have fabrication contracts that can go out several years. But the majority, the vast majority of the spend going forward if you look out to say 2017, the vast majority of that spend will be reflective of current market conditions.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: John, from this level are you saying that you expect CapEx to go lower and do we now say that the 3.1 million barrel a day 2017 target for volumes is gone? And one query I would have about that is it was previously lowered because of an assumption that oil prices would be higher. If you recall your previous planning assumption had been I think $79 and it was the move up to a higher price that caused you to lower the target. Wouldn't that be a reverse effect down here? Thanks.

JOHN WATSON: Well I did reaffirm the 3.1 Million in my comments earlier. So, I have reaffirmed that target. And I will say there are quite a few moving parts in getting to the 3.1 Million. First, most of the growth between now and then is underpinned by Gorgon, Wheatstone, Jack/St. Malo, Big Foot, Mafumeira Sul and others that are under construction. And I have indicated we are continuing to fund that spending.

We have had over the years some changes in the composition of the remainder of the volumes that contribute to the 3.1 Million. For example, we previously flagged in response to US gas prices we had reduced spend in that area. On the other side, the Permian wasn't in our plans when you go way back to 2010. And volumes coming from that area are higher.

There has been a big change in prices and price effects as I indicated earlier can impact volumes. Other things being equal, there is a contribution if we get to 2017 and prices are much lower, there will be a positive contribution that is inherent in that 3.1 Million.

The other side, as I also commented, is that we have less impact from that if our spend goes down in places like Indonesia. And finally, we have asset sales that can influence that target. But, as we see it today with all those effects, some that are positive, some that are negative, we still see that 3.1 Million target.

PAUL SANKEY: John, I guess what I am driving at is that based on the $35 billion or do you think that you could come lower on the $35 billion of spending and still make the 3.1 Million and would you manage towards the 3.1 Million, is that what you are saying because I guess you do have a view that the (multiple speakers)

JOHN WATSON: No, no. That's specifically not what I'm saying. What I am saying is that we have always -- the volume has always been an outcome. It's always been an outcome. We make decisions based on economics. What I'm telling you is that I see the outcome being 3.1 Million because 80% to 90% of the volume increase between now and then are the projects that are under construction, and we make investment decisions on our best view of go forward economics and in response to the best value propositions that we can see.

The precise level of spend going forward and the only thing I will flag is, you know I've been reticent to talk about C&E going forward and this last year is a perfect illustration as to why, we have a lot of moving parts, many of which I have described. We also have currency movements and uncertainties. We have growing flexibility in our spend going forward. And if the kind of price environment we see today persists, you will see lower spending. Absolutely.

PAUL SANKEY: Got it. I guess what I was driving at is that you had previously guided towards the flat CapEx from the previous $40 billion level in order to meet the 3.1 Million. I think what you're now saying is you can still meet the 3.1 Million and we could even then still see lower CapEx again in meeting the 3.1 Million. Or do I think about it that you are potentially not going to meet the 3.1 Million and bring down CapEx appropriately with the oil price?

JOHN WATSON: I think the outcome is a function of spend that is largely already committed. As one of the questions earlier commented on, is there much volume effect for some of the cuts? Most of the volume effect will be after 2017 because they are these longer cycle projects where we are taking a pause and trying to work the costs down.

You know this very well, Paul, we are in a long-cycle business and so if you defer longer-term projects now it will mean lower production than you might otherwise have seen beyond the target date of 2017. So, there is an impact beyond 2017 of the decisions that we are making today. But because we have all these projects in flight, we don't see a significant impact to our target beyond the factors I talked about before of base business spend, timing of asset sales, quantity of asset sales, cost barrel effects and things of that sort.

PAUL SANKEY: That's very helpful, John. And a very quick one, could you indicate how high you think that can go in order to then allow you still to maintain your targeted credit rating? Thanks.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, I'm going to let my CFO talk about the balance sheet and credit ratings.

PAT YARRINGTON: Paul, we have a lot of borrowing capacity still available to us. We ended the year with a 15% debt ratio and there's a lot of appetite in the capital markets for our debt and under the scenarios that we are talking about here in this price range with this capital program, we anticipate still being very nicely within the AA band. And after you get through 2015 really and you look ahead, obviously we're going to see more production growth. John talked about the flexibility that we've got. As time rolls on with our capital program, we talked about and we do believe that there will be some recovery in oil price. We don't know to what level or exactly how quickly. And there will be adjustments to our cost structure.

So we feel very comfortable with the position that we are in and John referenced earlier managing within certain constraints and one of the balance sheet constraints is maintaining a strong AA.

PAUL SANKEY: Is there a rule of thumb for how much debt you can have and still be AA?

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't think there is a rule of thumb because the rating agencies take into account not only what your financial parameters are but also what your operating parameters are. And what your prospects for future cash flow generation really are. So it's a combination of what the overall business plan, so to speak, for the enterprise is that the rating agencies take into account. But suffice it to say we have incremental borrowing capacity of several, several tens of billions of dollars here. Tens of billions of dollars.

PAUL SANKEY: Thanks all of you. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: First question is just kind of following up. In terms of trying to achieve dividend coverage and how you think about when you can get there full 100% dividend coverage, any color you can provide about how you kind of bridge to that? Because it looks like this year kind of the shortfall in the free cash flow and then the dividend, you add that up it's maybe $15 to $20 billion, so anything you could provide around that. It sounds like operating costs you've highlighted maybe $4 billion of opportunity but just generally how you are thinking about that?

JOHN WATSON: Sure. Our plan is to cover the dividend in 2017 and we won't do it this year in all likelihood. In fact we flagged that. If you go back two or three years, three or four years, we have said that, in fact, in response to questions around our balance sheet at that time where we had more cash than debt on the balance sheet and a lot of you were encouraging us to repurchase more shares and to really take advantage of the lower cost of debt. And we said look, our primary case may not be falling oil prices, but we've got a lot of projects under construction and we are in a commodity business and we need to be able to withstand the ups and downs of our business. And so what I said at that time is that we would be restoring our balance sheet to something that might be a more normal level for AA credit rating as time goes by and these projects roll off.

The reason I say 2017 is our production will grow between now and then by about 20% and so at whatever price level we are at we will see benefits to free cash flow from that.

I have talked about the flexibility in the activity level that we have, which can moderate spend and bring us back into balance and then of course as you mentioned, the cost reduction efforts that we have underway both from the supply chain and internally will help us attenuate that.

Finally, bridging us and helping us on the balance sheet are the contributions from asset sales and you saw we got off to a pretty good start in the program this year. But we have flagged and indicated that even at higher prices that we were going to use our balance sheet and we are going to use a little more of it this year than perhaps would've been the case with higher prices. But we are able to attenuate that over a couple of years.

PHIL GRESH: So just a clarification on that then, with the strip in the low 60s, is it fair to say that you got your production growth, layer in the strip, take out $4 billion in costs, you would actually plug the CapEx to get to a level that covers the dividend?

JOHN WATSON: I'm not going to give you a specific price forecast, I will just say that the boundary conditions that that we are operating under, and these are things Pat has talked to you many times, the boundary conditions -- the dividend is the highest priority of spend for us and we want to keep sufficient flexibility on our balance sheet to withstand the ups and downs in the commodity market. So we will work very hard on CapEx and OpEx in order to get balanced in a couple of years.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. And my follow-up question is just, is there anything in the production guidance for 2015 for Gorgon and for Angola LNG at this point, or would execution on that timing wise be upside to the guidance? Just how to think about that and the update on the Angola LNG in general.

JOHN WATSON: There is a scenario where we could be to the upside of the range that we have indicated. But frankly I'm a little gun shy on that sort of thing given the kind of operating environment that we are in right now given where prices are and potential adjustments to spend. So yes, we expect to see volumes from those assets this year. The exact timing brings in some variability but our plan is to have both of those contributing volumes this year.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Bank of Montreal.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, BANK OF MONTREAL: Just a question about your onshore drilling activity. You seem to be maintaining or increasing your drilling in the Permian whereas some of the other companies seem to be deferring it on the basis that it will be worth more in a couple years time by leaving it in the ground. Just kind of interested in your take on that versus what you are planning?

JOHN WATSON: Well we have about 30 rigs running in the Permian and we continue to screen the economics of those. I think what I said is our spend on unconventionals, on shale will be higher this year than last, but that encompasses our worldwide activity that we expect to see.

By the way, we've had some terrific performance in the Permian. Part of the reason we able to do that is we have been able to dramatically reduce costs. When we get ahead to March at our analyst meeting, we'll give you a fair amount of information on how we are doing. Some of the horizontal pad drilling programs that we are putting in place we are seeing very, very good early results. But we need to see good returns on these things to make investments.

And so I'll just say we do expect some recovery in prices as the year wears on but if we end up in a depressed environment, we could make adjustments to that.

Remember, a lot of our volume in that area we benefit from no royalty. And that's a big competitive advantage. As you get down where others might be at the margin more than we are, we are in pretty good shape because we don't have royalty and we've got a long, long queue available to us.

IAIN REID: Okay, just one other thing, I heard what you said on Wheatstone in terms of schedule. I just wonder though where you are in terms of budget and CapEx? Is there any update you can give us on that relative to the original budget because we haven't had a mid-project update for that one.

JOHN WATSON: No, we are still operating under the current appropriation request that we approved, which is the Wheatstone project was a $29 billion US project and we have had some ups and downs. Frankly, right now we are benefiting from currency movements. The Australian dollar I think is around $0.78, so we are benefiting from that. We've had some ups and downs there and have used some of the contingency in the project but we are still operating within that same appropriation request.

IAIN REID: Okay. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: John, you've obviously got a tough job of trying to manage through the cycle and if you look at the near-term growth I think you've been pretty clear that that is pretty much prefunded with the commitments you've got going on. But once you get to 2017, once you've delivered your target, assuming an oil price range which is lower than we have had in the last five years, how do you think about the trade-off between continued growth versus other uses of cash like a return to buybacks? And what's on my mind is over the last 10 years before the growth phase, the share prices did just fine in a relatively flat production profile over that 10-year period. So that's my first question. I've got a related follow-up, please.

JOHN WATSON: Well, I guess I would say volume has always been an outcome of our views about the quality of the investments that we have available to us and that will continue to govern our decisions. If we wind up in a lower price environment in 2017 than we might have thought we would be in a year ago, I think there will be contributing factors to that. One will be costs.

And so we don't make decisions to invest based on a volume target. We make decisions to invest based on our perception of the value that is available to us. There were a confluence of events that resulted in several significant projects coming together at the same time. We had lease retention issues. We had good gas contracts available to us, for example, on Wheatstone. We had had a moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico, which slid things. And you had lease commitments and things of that sort.

So you wouldn't ordinarily choose to have all those projects be together but we felt individually they were good and we felt we had the capacity to handle them. And we are starting to see them deliver today and, frankly, for all the talk about these projects, Gorgon and Wheatstone are 30- to 40-year projects. They haven't even come online yet. And when they come online and over the cycle, I am very comfortable that the economics will be just fine and they will be prolific contributors to the Company for years to come.

And all these new projects also have follow-on opportunities to them because the first phases of projects don't result in all the resource being developed and incremental economics are better.

Our priority around spend has been pretty clear. One, we going to pay the dividend and we going to increase it as a pattern of earnings and cash flow permit and we will invest to do that. And we will do that within the parameters of our balance sheet. We have viewed share repurchase as a flywheel. And the flywheel was available to us. We have consciously spread out share repurchases over time, so we've tried not to just be in for a short period of time, we were in for a longer period of time.

But we are obviously with the price environment we are seeing we are discontinuing that program. But if we get to a circumstance where we are generating cash flow and we don't see the opportunities, we've got no reticence at all to repurchase shares if we think that is a better opportunity for us.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks, John. My follow-up, and I will be quick I realize we are at the top of the hour, but it's kind of more of a macro question. It's going to be a tough one to answer. But when we think about Chevron's role as a global player, 1.9 million barrels a day of oil and the operated obviously is a lot bigger than that, do you think that Chevron has been representative of big oil and non-OPEC, meets a certain oil price environment to maintain flat production, what would that number be for Chevron? In other words to hold production flat close to the start-up of the major projects, can you hold flat at $50 or $60 or $70? What do you think that number is now? And I'll leave it there.

JOHN WATSON: Well, you're right. It is a tough question. If we are in a $50 world, there will not be, just as I said at a macro level, around the world I don't see many investments that are going to go with the fiscal terms we see in place today, with the cost levels we see today, I see very few major oil projects going forward. There will be incremental investments on existing projects to mitigate the decline. There will be some shale investments that may be economic. But I don't know, for example, around the world of deep full-cycle economics, deepwater projects, that go at $50 at the current cost structure. I don't know of new oil sand volumes that can come on at $50.

And there are oilfields in decline everywhere. So I just don't see that. Now costs can adjust. Fiscal terms can adjust. And so it is hard to speak definitively for a very long period of time but it's very clear that the incremental barrels are coming from more complex developments over time.

With all the enthusiasm around shale, I think it's important to remember its 4 million barrels a day out of a 92 million barrel base. And you're going to see the rate of growth in that volume was due to slow and you're going to see a reduction in that rate of growth in response to current prices.

I think we are at the end of our time. I thank you very much for the questions. In closing, just say we appreciate everyone's participation. I especially want to thank the analysts on behalf of all participants. We'll look forward to seeing you at our March security analyst meeting. So Jonathan, thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude Chevron's fourth-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150201eb1u006bw
  


 HD
 Q3  2014  Chevron  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,443 words
   PD
31 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Jonathan, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington, please go ahead.

   TD
PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Good morning and thank you, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Jeff Shellebarger, President Chevron North America Exploration & Production, and Jeff Gustavson, General Manager Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown here on slide 2.

Turning to slide 3, the Company's third-quarter earnings were $5.6 billion or $2.95 per diluted share. On a year-to-date basis earnings were $15.8 billion or $8.29 per diluted share. Included in this quarter's earnings were gains on asset sales of approximately $420 million, foreign-exchange gains of $366 million, and a nonrecurring economic buyout of a long-term contract. Taken together these equate to a positive $0.34 per share.

On a year-to-date basis the impact of foreign exchange movements is minimal while asset sale gains and other nonrecurring charges have provided a net boost to 2014 earnings of $770 million. There is a full reconciliation of these items on our last slide.

Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 12% and our debt ratio at the end of September was 14%. We repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares during the third quarter and in the fourth quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.

Turning to slide 4, cash generated from operations was $8.7 billion during the third quarter and $25 billion year to date. Cash capital expenditures were $8.3 billion for the quarter and $25.7 billion year to date. Free cash flow for the quarter was $1.5 billion and year to date $1.9 billion. At quarter end our cash and cash equivalents totaled $14.5 billion giving us a net debt position of $11 billion.

Slide 5 compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year. Third-quarter 2014 earnings were $643 million higher than third-quarter 2013 results. Foreign-exchange movements positively affected earnings by $366 million during the quarter, representing a swing of over $600 million between periods, mostly occurring in the upstream segment. As a reminder, foreign-exchange movements for us are largely book translation effects with minimal cash flow impacts.

Upstream earnings decreased by $443 million between quarters. Lower realizations and lifting and higher operating and DD&A expenses were partially offset by favorable foreign-exchange movements and lower exploration expenses.

Downstream results increased by about $1 billion driven by stronger US refining and marketing results, larger gains on asset sales, favorable foreign-exchange movements and timing effects related to revaluation of inventory in a lower price environment. The improvement in the other segment primarily reflects the absence of a 2013 third-quarter impairment of a power-related equity affiliate.

Turning to slide 6, I will now compare results for the third quarter of 2014 with the second quarter of 2014. Third-quarter earnings were approximately $70 million lower than second-quarter results. Again, the earnings variance between quarters reflected a $600 million favorable movement in foreign-exchange effects, most of which impacted the upstream segment.

Upstream earnings decreased by $615 million reflecting lower realization and lower gains on asset sales, partially offset by a favorable foreign-exchange swing between quarters and lower exploration expenses.

Downstream earnings increased by almost $670 million driven by stronger R&M results, higher gains on asset sales and a positive swing in foreign-exchange between quarters partially offset by lower Chemicals earnings. The decrease in the other segment largely reflects corporate tax items and higher environmental expenses.

Jeff Gustavson will now take us through the comparisons by segment.

JEFF GUSTAVSON, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 7, our US upstream earnings for the third quarter were $125 million lower than second-quarter's results. Lower realizations decreased earnings by $175 million, consistent with the decline in US liquids and natural gas price indicators.

Higher production volumes in San Joaquin Valley and the Permian Basin increased earnings by $40 million. Lower exploration expenses, primarily associated with the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, increased earnings by $95 million.

The other bar reflects the number of unrelated items. Lower operating expenses were more than offset by the negative impact from the economic buyout of a long-term contractual obligation.

Turning to slide 8, International Upstream earnings were $490 million lower than last quarter's results. Lower crude oil realizations decreased earnings by $420 million, consistent with the decline in international crude prices between quarters. Lower liftings, primarily related to the sale of our upstream interest in Chad, decreased earnings by $95 million.

Gains on asset sales were $430 million lower, also driven by the sale of our interest in Chad and Cameroon which occurred during the second quarter. Favorable movements in foreign currency effects increased earnings by $490 million. The third quarter had a gain of about $340 million compared to a loss of about $150 million in the second quarter.

The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including lower trading results and higher DD&A partially offset by lower exploration expenses.

Slide 9 summarizes the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the third quarter 2014 and the second quarter 2014. Production increased by 23,000 barrels per day between quarters. Shale and tight resources growth contributed 18,000 barrels per day driven primarily by production increases from the Midland and Delaware Basins in the Permian where new wells were brought online.

The net impact of lower turnaround activity during the quarter increased production by 23,000 barrels per day. Planned maintenance at TCO's KTL facility in Kazakhstan, in addition to Australia, was completed in the second quarter while third-quarter planned turnarounds, including TCO's SGI/SGP facility, the UK and Thailand, were on balance less extensive than the prior quarter. The TCO SGI/SGP turnaround continued through October.

Asset sales reduced production by 18,000 barrels per day principally due to the sale of producing assets in Chad. As a reminder, the production impact associated with this sale had already been incorporated in both our updated production guidance for 2014 as well as in our 2017 production target of 3.1 million barrels of oil equivalent per day.

Slide 10 compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the third quarter 2014 and the third quarter 2013. Production was 17,000 barrels per day lower than the same period a year ago. Excluding production entitlement effects and the production impact associated with asset sales, production grew by 31,000 barrels per day between periods.

Unconventional production increased in the Permian and the Vaca Muerta in Argentina by 40,000 barrels per day. Lower turnaround activity, mainly in Trinidad and Tobago, Kazakhstan and the Gulf of Mexico, increased production by 19,000 barrels per day. Production entitlement effects decreased production by 28,000 barrels per day.

The decrease in crude oil prices between periods resulted in a small increase in net production volumes primarily as a function of our production sharing contracts in Indonesia. This increase was more than offset, however, by negative production entitlement effects in Kazakhstan as well as lower cost recovery volumes due to changes in absolute spending levels.

The sale of producing assets mainly in Chad reduced production by about 20,000 barrels per day. The base business and other bar principally reflects normal field declines with a partial offset from the absence of external constraints, which negatively impacted production in the third quarter of 2013. Our base business continues to perform well with a base decline rate of less than 3% per year.

Turning to slide 11, US downstream results increased $292 million between quarters. Higher volumes increased earnings by $160 million primarily reflecting the completion of planned turnaround activities at the El Segundo, California refinery where four new coke drums were installed. These new coke drums are expected to enhance the future reliability of the refinery.

Despite declining industry refining margins on both the West Coast and Gulf Coast, our realized margins were $30 million higher. Overall we benefited for more optimal sourcing of intermediates and other feedstocks following the completion of the El Segundo refinery's major turnaround in the prior quarter.

In addition, we had improved reliability at both the Pascagoula, Mississippi and Richmond, California refineries. Pascagoula's refinery contributed a full quarter of premium base oils production after the successful start-up of its new premium base oils plant in July. This benefited both volumes and margins.

Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $110 million due to the absence of costs related to the shutdown and maintenance activities in the prior quarter. Higher gains on midstream asset sales, mainly the sale of a terminal in Beaumont, Texas, improved earnings by $115 million between periods.

Lower chemicals results along with various smaller items decreased earnings by $123 million. Chemicals earnings were affected by various impairments in addition to the Port Arthur, Texas facility being off-line since early third quarter.

Turning to slide 12, International Downstream earnings increased $374 million between quarters. Stronger margins increased earnings by $145 million. Falling crude prices contributed to improved refining margins across multiple refineries in addition to the completion of planned turnarounds at our Thailand and South Korea affiliate refineries. Asia marketing margins benefited from favorable aviation price lag effects and improved retail margins.

Timing affects represented a $70 million positive earnings variance between quarters largely due to the revaluation of inventory associated with falling crude and product prices during the third quarter. Foreign-exchange gains were $105 million higher compared to the prior quarter.

The third quarter had a gain of about $20 million compared to a loss of about $85 million in the second quarter. The other bar includes a number of unrelated items mainly higher trading results.

Jeff will now provide an update on our North America upstream operations.

JEFF SHELLEBARGER, PRESIDENT, NORTH AMERICAN EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jeff. It's a pleasure to be on the call with you all today. I'll provide a brief overview of our North America upstream operations followed by more detailed reviews of two key areas for us: the Gulf of Mexico Deepwater and our unconventional activities, particularly those in the Permian Basin.

The photo on slide 13 shows the Jack/St. Malo facility safely moored on location in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico. We continue to make steady progress towards first oil later this year.

Let's turn to slide 14. Let me start by providing a brief overview of Chevron's North America Exploration Production Company. We are a diverse organization made up of six business units. We're active in the key hydrocarbon basins across the continent. Production has averaged 731,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. Year to date 2014 this represents almost 30% of Chevron's total upstream volumes.

The heart of our portfolio is our legacy based business which has generated production and value creation for decades. Asset includes our Gulf of Mexico shelf, Mid-Continent conventional oil and gas operations, and the San Joaquin Valley in California where our industry-leading expertise in steam flood operations has helped us achieve more than 60% recovery at the Kern River oilfield.

These robust base business assets provide a low decline, high cash generation foundation to underpin and support our current and future growth opportunities. Next I would like to highlight two of these areas in more detail, Deepwater Gulf of Mexico and our shale and tight assets.

Slide 15. Chevron has a leading position in the Gulf of Mexico. We are the largest leaseholder, currently produce about 200,000 barrels a day in the Gulf, slightly more than half of which comes from our existing Deepwater assets.

In the Deepwater we're making good progress on our major capital projects, Tubular Bells first oil is eminent in the next few days, the remaining work on Jack St. Malo is progressing well and the project remains on track for a late fourth quarter startup.

Overall hook up and commissioning is about 90% complete. Buyback gas was brought on board the facility last weekend. We recently completed dewatering in the oil export pipeline. Both of these are significant milestones.

Construction on the Big Foot tension leg platform is essentially complete and is ready for sail away and offshore installation. The Central Gulf of Mexico has currently experienced a significant loop current event. These strong currents at the ocean surface are naturally occurring, typically last one to three months.

This loop current is particularly strong and we are monitoring for the conditions that will allow us to proceed with installation once the loop current subsides. We're taking advantage of the extra time in the construction yard to start some pre-commissioning activities normally done offshore. Finally, an investment decision was announced on the Stampede Project earlier this week.

On the exploration front we recently announced a significant lower tertiary discovery at the Guadalupe prospect in northern Keathley Canyon. We have also completed appraisal work at the Buckskin and Moccasin prospects and expect to move into front-end engineering and design in 2015. We've got five deepwater drill ships operating in the Gulf, two of which are focused on exploration activities where we plan to drill four to six impact prospects over the next 12 to 18 months.

Next let's talk about the shale and tight activities, slide 16. In the Permian Basin Chevron has been active since the 1920s. We continue to be a leading producer in the basin, we have an enviable acreage position, we have good exposure to the key sweet spots in the basin, our legacy position provides critical access to infrastructure.

We are employing a disciplined value focused development strategy in the Permian. We are not in a drill or drop situation and our low lease holding costs allow us to focus on the highest return projects in a paced manner while developing -- while leveraging industry learnings.

Our efforts on lowering cost while simultaneously increasing production rates and ultimate recoveries are helping to improve overall well and program economics. Finally, we have executed joint development agreements which help optimize well placement and lateral lengths, as well ensure the efficient build out of take away and other infrastructure.

Already high level of activities in the basin continued to increase and efficiency programs to lower cost increase EUR are working. We're anticipating that our 2014 unconventional production will be more than 10% higher than initially forecast and our long-term unconventional production growth continues to steepen, as shown on the chart on the right. We'll provide an updated production forecast at our Analyst Day in March.

Slide 17. looking into the Midland Basin, production has increased by 15,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or 40% during the first nine months of the year and we are on track to drill 10% more wells than originally planned for the year.

As we mentioned during the second-quarter call, we are transitioning towards a multi-well pad based horizontal program. The Midland vertical wells have demonstrated that all of the identified benches are potentially productive.

Our Bradford Ranch program in the southwestern edge of the basin is a great example of our transition to horizontals. We've drilled our first two wells. We are now batch drilling the next four. The first will has been completed. It's flowing back and will be on production next month.

At its full potential we expect up to 150 wells in this development with lateral lengths ranging from 5,000 to 7,500 feet. We believe that we are well-positioned in what looks like the sweet spot of the Midland Basin horizontal play.

Slide 18. Results in the Delaware Basin have been equally positive. Our two non-operated joint development areas in Culberson and Eddy counties continue to deliver excellent results. Production has increased by approximately 20,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or 60% during the first nine months of the year and we are planning to drill 180 wells in 2014.

Our Company operated Salado Draw horizontal program in Lea County, New Mexico remains on track to spud its first well within the next month. While there are multiple benches in this area, we are targeting the upper Avalon with its initial 16 well development. With success we envision more than 60 well locations at Salado Draw.

Our recent well results give us continued optimism on the growth potential in the Delaware. Wells drilled in the third quarter have 30 day IPs that average just over 1,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.

I'd like to close by providing an update on some of our other key North America shale and tight assets. Let's turn to slide 19.

Starting with the Duvernay in Canada, we recently announced the sell down of 30% of our Duvernay position to the Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company, consistent with our risk management practices for early life assets. They are a valued partner in our Wheatstone project and we welcome them to this exciting development.

The consideration received reflects the prospectivity and inherent value of our attractive acreage position, 90% of which is in the liquids rich window. Appraisal drilling has commenced on our first two horizontal well pads located in, what we call, the Central Focus Area.

In the Utica and Marcellus we have prioritized our near-term efforts into five core development areas across West Virginia and southwestern Pennsylvania. As we move more aggressively into the development mode, pad drilling, optimization of lateral lengths, and completions and the build out of water infrastructure allow us to further lower costs, increase recoveries and therefore enhance overall development economics.

Let me turn it back over to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you, Jeff. In addition to the significant amount of activity going on in our North America upstream business, I'd also like to touch on a few other highlights during the quarter. In Australia we continue to make good progress on both the Gorgon and the Wheatstone LNG projects.

For Gorgon, which is now 87% complete, all of the development wells have been successfully drilled and a majority are through the completions phase. LNG tank number one is through construction and testing, awaiting product and LNG tank number two is on plan to achieve that same status by the end of January.

The five turbine generators are all installed and the jetty is essentially complete. 11 of 17 Train 2 modules have been received and installed. The key focus in the months ahead remains in the mechanical, electrical and instrumentation work scopes on the island.

The Wheatstone project is now 49% complete. The project team had a major milestone back in August with the installation of the offshore steel gravity based structure. The MOF, or Materials Offloading Facility, is 100% operational. The upstream drilling campaign, the fabrication of the platform, site preparation and construction of the LNG tanks are all on schedule.

We are making good progress bringing these projects online, both of which will be important contributors to production, cash flow, and earnings for decades to come. I encourage you to review the new pictures that show progress on both projects on our Investors page at Chevron.com.

In Bangladesh we achieved startup at the Bibiyana expansion project, which includes two new processing trains with an incremental design capacity of 300 million cubic feet of natural gas and 4,000 barrels of condensate per day.

Moving to the downstream, we have completed investments at several of our US refineries including El Segundo, Pascagoula and Salt Lake City. We expect these investments will lead to notable reliability and operational improvements going forward, some of which were evident in the third-quarter's results.

Our Chevron Phillips Chemical's joint venture also continues to make good progress on its US Gulf Coast Petrochemicals Project, construction of the 1.5 million metric ton ethane cracker and the two 500,000 metric ton polyethylene units is almost 25% complete, it is on schedule and on budget.

Finally, we continue to sell non-strategic assets. We are on target for achieving $10 billion in asset sale proceeds from 2014 through 2016, a goal we outlined at our Analyst Day meeting last March. At nine months year-to-date proceeds amount to $2.6 billion and there are several other transactions lined up to close in the fourth quarter or early in the new year.

I'd like to close with a couple of thoughts about Chevron's position and outlook given recent commodity price declines. Our priorities haven't changed. By necessity we take a long-term view of prices because our investments last for decades. We continue to believe global demand for oil and natural gas will grow while existing sources of supply will inevitably decline.

And, as it has always done, although with some lags, we expect the industry cost structure will align to the revenue stream such that economic incentives will exist to invest in developing new energy supplies.

Our strategies have remained, and will remain, constant. They are designed for long-term value creation. Our financial priorities haven't changed, they start with growing an attractive dividend. Next we look to invest in economic projects that create value and allow us to sustain and grow the dividend for years to come.

Third, we want to maintain a strong balance sheet precisely for times like this. And finally, any available cash is distributed to our shareholders through our share repurchase program. Our program is scalable and could be adjusted in a period of low prices. We will continue to make that assessment each quarter and our future actions will obviously be influenced by how low prices stay, and for how long.

We remain focused on excellent execution each day and every day. Our businesses are performing well. Based on preliminary information it appears our upstream and our downstream segments were number one in earnings per barrel for the quarter.

Now, of course, we are cognizant of near-term price realities. Major capital projects under construction and other nondiscretionary spend represents about one-half of our current capital budget. Even at low prices we plan to continue funding these projects. Key among these are Gorgon, Wheatstone and our two operated Deepwater projects.

Within a year we expect to see production from three of these four projects online and they will turn from being cash consumers into cash generators. After that we prioritize and rank our remaining investments that are more discretionary in nature, only funding those that are most competitive in the portfolio or where deferral can be achieved without economic loss.

Permian development, for example, remains quite attractive even at lower prices. Now this ranking and prioritization is not a new process for us, it is a routine process for us.

We're also keenly focused on managing operating cost. This too is not a new area of effort for us since oil prices have been drifting south for the past few years while costs have continued to rise. As we showed you last March our costs are already highly competitive with our larger peers as well as a much broader set of E&P companies. Well before the recent price declines several of our international and domestic business units, as well as our corporate departments, already had notable cost reduction efforts underway.

Finally, we plan to continue, but we will be careful about managing our ongoing asset divestment and portfolio rationalization efforts. The valuations for some assets targeted for sale are not likely to be affected by near-term circumstances. But the valuations for other prospective sale assets may be. In all cases we will only sell if we can capture good value.

By the end of 2014 we should be well on our way to our $10 billion asset divestment target. We still have confidence in achieving it between now and the end of 2016.

We have a great deal of experience in managing through prior price cycles in both our upstream and our downstream businesses and we feel confident in our ability to allocate capital appropriately and to sustain a competitive cost structure even in a lower commodity price world.

Now that concludes our prepared remarks. I appreciate you listening in this morning. We are ready to take some questions. Keep in mind that we do have a full queue. So, please try to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up, if that is absolutely necessary, and we will do our very best to get all the questions answered. So, Jonathan, please open up the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Doug Leggate, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

JASON SMITH, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, good morning, it is actually Jason Smith on for Doug. How are you?

PAT YARRINGTON: Oh, fine, Jason, how are you?

JASON SMITH: Good. So, Pat, I think in your comments around some of the projects you had looked to move forward with in the future, one of the ones you didn't mention is the Tengiz expansion and there's obviously been some chatter around costs and timing there. Can you maybe just offer some color on your latest thoughts on whether this moves forward?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. So, obviously, this is a very attractive asset for us. It is one of the critical assets that we have got in the Company, strong earnings, strong cash flow. And it has the potential, we think, to grow even further.

There are two prospective elements of that project that I think are important to separate out. One is the Wellhead Pressure Management Project, it is really designed to keep existing capacity, processing capacity full. And the second is a project for the growth that really could add 250,000 to 300,000 barrels a day taking full field growth production up to around 1 million barrels a day.

So it is a very exciting project. We are working very aggressively with our partners and the Kazakhstan government to progress this project through to final investment decision. We have not made a final investment decision at this point in time. We don't have a cost estimate.

Our teams are working very hard to conclude the final engineering, understand the full suite of the economic impacts here, get complete alignment between our partners and the government and proceed that forward. When we do take FID we will have a number that we can put forward.

JASON SMITH: Got it, okay. And then we appreciate all the thoughts on buybacks and dividends going forward. But in the current oil price environment at least at present it looks like cash flow is not covering CapEx dividends and buybacks for the first nine months of the year. So if we do end up in a depressed environment can you maybe just talk through what changes there?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, so, I think, Jason, it is really going to depend on the outlook that we've got an a whole series of parameters: oil price is one, cost structure is another, length of duration of any sort of dip or price excursion, how quickly we see the cost structure amending to that, our capital program, balance sheet health issues, etc. And all of that gets taken into account when we look at our allocation of cash uses.

The priority, as I have said before and we have been long-standing in saying this, is really about being able to grow our dividend. But in order to do that over a long period of time we need to make -- continue to make very strong investments or investments in strong projects, attractive projects.

We've got a tremendous queue and we have the opportunity to do that. So we're going to be driven by the economics of the portfolio that we have at hand. We're very cognizant of the risks in our business, the commodity price cycle risk, and we have long-standing kept a pristine balance sheet to weather through positions just like this.

We have a lot of borrowing capacity still ahead of us without putting into jeopardy our AA status. And we are on the cusp of getting to a point where these major capital projects kick in with significant volumes and significant cash generation.

So we feel very comfortable about the position that we are in and we are not bothered in a temporary sense of having to fund our shareholder distributions off of our balance sheet. We obviously can't do that for a long period of time, but that is not the window that we find ourselves in.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: My question is on the Permian. Jeff, I was hoping that you might be able to at least qualitatively explain why you are seeing such a significant increase in the production levels. And I guess if you'd just break it out between moving to longer laterals, the intensity of proppant in your completions, or even just higher activity levels or maybe just something else I am not thinking about.

JEFF SHELLEBARGER: Thanks for the question, Jason. It is really all of the above. Maybe start back with a year ago, a lot of our activity was focused on appraisal and we had some lease tenure work to do up in the Delaware with the Chesapeake acquisition. Most of that work is done, that has helped us identify the sweet spots that we want to be in.

As you know, the industry is innovating every single day on completions and design, so we are adopting those designs, applying those to our business. So lateral lengths are increasing, stages in those lateral lengths are increasing, proppant amounts are increasing.

All of that is driving not only our performance per well but the entire industry's performance per well in an upward direction. And then finally, on top of that our activity in general with more development programs has increased year over year and that is driving the production growth.

JASON GAMMEL: Great. And I really did have a true follow-up on this one. I think you said that the 30-day IP in the Delaware Basin was just over 1,000 barrels a day. You may have said it but I missed it, do you have a similar figure for the Midland Basin?

JEFF SHELLEBARGER: No, I don't. I mean it is a much wider distribution over there. So we will talk a little bit more about that at our Analyst Day meeting.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

PAT YARRINGTON: Maybe we will try to queue him up again. Let's move on to the next caller, Jonathan.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Good morning. Pat, you guided at the analyst meeting to flat CapEx going forward. Today you seem to be saying that you may cut it. I'm not quite sure what the message is. I guess if we were to stay at current prices we would anticipate lower CapEx in the future and you seem to be saying that would be -- well I'm not even sure in what areas you would lower CapEx. Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: What I was trying to say is that we are just in the middle of doing our business plans at the very moment. And you know our process, we go through that at this time of year, we get approval of the Board and then we come out with our capital expenditure outlook for the year. And that typically would've happened in December. So we are right in the midst of pulling all the plans together.

And obviously we are having to have some tough discussions around what do we think the price outlook is going to be, what do we think the cost structure is going to be? How much of our capital program is really in this nondiscretionary must get through the phases since these projects are already under construction versus how much is discretionary? And so, I tried in the prepared remarks to kind of walk you through that logic.

Now in the discretionary category there are areas like exploration. Exploration would be one of the first areas that you would look to perhaps trim back in a cash flow constrained sort of mode.

There are other areas that we would look to, projects that are not under construction but are and the first few phases of development. These would be projects where a deferral really doesn't result in an economic loss or value destruction. So those are the first couple of areas that we would necessarily look.

I'd call to your attention that there have been some projects where we have already done a pushback on the FID for various reasons. So, for example, Rosebank was one of the areas that we deferred on the final investment decision. We basically took a look at that again and said, let's reassess the design construct, let's reassess the economics here.

And frankly that is turning out quite well from a design concept standpoint as well as a reserve standpoint. And that effort looks to be coming forward perhaps sometime in 2015.

We've also had -- you are probably aware, we've also had a delay in the Indonesian Deepwater Project because we weren't able to get the government approvals in the timeframe that allowed the bids that we had received and the marketing effort that had been done to be -- to remain effective. So we are going to have to go through that cycle again. So there have been some projects that have moved out of the current year period for their own sort of operating reasons.

PAUL SANKEY: Great. And then the follow-up would be would we assume that your volume target for 2017 is regardless and viable or would you see the potential for that to need to be cut as a result of low prices? Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. Paul, I guess the other thing I tried to mention is that we take a long-term view on prices because we think over time that is the direction. The world is still going to need our product and costs are going to rise to get access to more challenged resources.

We still are on plan for the 3.1 million barrel a day production by 2017. A vast majority of that volume is already under construction and we can see our way to those barrels.

You will recall perhaps that when we did put out that target back in March we also indicated that there was about a 50,000 barrel a day cushion that we put in for the unknown and the unknowable. And so, that is an opportunity there should some of these things move in or out of the portfolio.

So some things are going to move out, some things are moving in. Jeff already talked about the strength in the Permian that we have got. So all in, our best view of the world right now is that 3.1 million barrel a day target is a good target for us.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you, Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: The other thing I would say maybe is that we do, when we are putting our plans together and we're actually taking our projects to investment, we obviously test our investments against a mid-price scenario, but a low price scenario as well as a high price scenario. And I would just say that the low price scenario that we use, current prices are within that band.

PAUL SANKEY: Great. And just if I could, the credit rating is all-important, isn't it? That is an important way to think about how much you would borrow?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, it is. Credit rating is important, but we are a long way from compromising our AA status. And we want to keep the AA status for exactly times like this when prices fall and we are committed on projects.

PAUL SANKEY: Thanks, I will let you move on. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just a follow-up on Paul's question. You talked about some of the areas of flexibility. I appreciate the color there. Specifically for 2015 you talked about the major capital projects, you talked about the Permian still being attractive, etc. So I guess I was just wondering, ballpark, is there a rough amount or a range you could give us in terms of your CapEx flexibility for next year? Is it 10%? Just any preliminary thoughts you could give us?

PAT YARRINGTON: Phil, I don't want to really go down that pathway because, again, we are putting our budgets together right now. I mean the areas that we would look to flex, exploration, it's currently been 3. That would probably come off some. These Phases 1 through 3 project developments, that will take some declines, again, if we see these price levels holding.

Base business and Permian activity, those are obviously very economic plays at this particular point, but you could toggle those. And you can toggle those without destroying value. It would mean delaying value, but you wouldn't be destroying value. So those are all of the kinds of decisions that we are working through at the very moment. And I don't want to get ahead of our formal plan.

PHIL GRESH: Understood. I appreciate the additional color. My follow-up would be if we think about the levers available between the CapEx, incremental asset sales, the buybacks, is it fair to say with your leverage where it is that maybe something on the CapEx and something on the asset sales would be more of a priority at this point, or rank order relative to trimming the buybacks?

PAT YARRINGTON: Again, I don't want to get ahead on that. I think all of those avenues are open to us, and it is really going to be a question of how we settle out on our medium to longer-term view on prices and costs. And it's also going to be a function of the economic queue that we have got. So we will take all of those parameters in place. I will just reemphasize that we have a fair amount of leverage, a lot of leverage still available to us, so that will be taken into account as well.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Jeff, I have, if I could, two questions, one on Duvernay. Can you share with us the rationale behind the farm down? Is it because you think within your portfolio that this is not ranking as well or that it is a financial consideration? You just need the money so that you can accelerate the growth or that the development pace there?

And secondly, can you talk about from the Atlas acquisition that you also get the Utica acreage there. And relative to the Chevron portfolio how do you rank those land positions? Does it have any meaningful outlook or future within your portfolio? Thank you.

JEFF SHELLEBARGER: Two good questions, Paul. On the Duvernay in Canada, we are very excited about that. It is a very attractive -- it is less mature than the Permian but the rocks that we have seen out there and the performance that we have seen on our exploration program are good.

Chevron has been very clear about our position on risk management. We had a 100% interest in more than 300,000 acres up there. Typically we look to farm that down a bit, this helps us manage risk, it helps us manage across our whole portfolio. So the sell down in that particular venture was really a part of our normal risk management process.

With respect to the Utica, southwestern Pennsylvania, these are very attractive prospects. Recall four years ago, three years ago when we bought into this thing it was primarily dry gas and that is what was driving the business. Obviously that part of our portfolio we have a low holding cost and we pulled back from that with respect to investments.

On the liquids rich gas side and on the deeper Utica plays, we are very excited about those. Again, we are seeing the same efficiencies in the drilling and completions up there as we see everywhere else. It is competing for our capital and it is important in our portfolio.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, and I'll just add a quick follow-up. Do have any rig drilling in the Utica?

JEFF SHELLEBARGER: Yes, we have got one rig up there.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I will leave CapEx alone, but a modest silver lining on the low oil price is a positive PSC effect. I mean can you provide any sequential impact in 3Q and maybe just talk through what the typical timing or lag effect may be there.

JEFF GUSTAVSON: I can take that one, Evan, this is Jeff Gustavson. So we did see a net production increase in the quarter, but remember prices dropped kind of late in the quarter. So I think you'll see more of that in the fourth quarter assuming prices stay at the levels that they are at now.

We redo our PSC sensitivity each and every year as part of our planning process. And right now at these price levels what we are showing is about a 1,500 barrel a day impact per dollar change in Brent prices. So that is the sensitivity you should be using going forward.

I would note that this quarter, and we mentioned this in the text, we did have a couple of maybe one-off effects, profit oil split change -- contractor versus government in Kazakhstan, that is with Karachaganak. So that was a little more of a pronounced impact. Plus there were some variable royalty effects with our TCO affiliate. But going forward 1,500 barrels a day per dollar change is a sensitivity you should be using.

EVAN CALIO: Great, I appreciate that. And maybe a question for the other Jeff. On the Permian you mentioned in your comments that it ranks highly. So, I presume, it would be more insulated from any potential CapEx reduction. Assume that is correct. And then you clearly have a very large position in both basins. I didn't know if you could quantify how much of your net acreage was prospective in Wolfcamp, Bone Springs or even lower Spraberry in Midland-- if you could share that with us.

JEFF SHELLEBARGER: Yes, well, just to confirm really what Pat said, the Permian does rank at the high end of our investment portfolio and it should be good at the current price environment. It is good at the current price environment that we see.

With respect to quantifying the acreage position, I think that is in the eye of the beholder. We have a large acreage position, it is across all the different benches. Every day there is a new bench that looks productive out there.

What I can tell you is that the areas that we are focusing our development activity are the sweet spots as we and the industry define those things today, and they are highly prospective, they are highly sought out after.

We start looking at the outer edges of that basin, other people are out there, they are trying new technologies, they are testing those benches. So I think what we are trying to do is not get out ahead of our skis on that and follow a bit the appraisal work and the delineation of these things that are going on. But we are going to stay in highly prospective areas as we pace our development program.

EVAN CALIO: Is that what drives your location estimates then or is that kind of all-encompassing?

JEFF SHELLEBARGER: Well, the total location estimates is what we see across the basin with sort of the current and some advancement of the technologies that exist. Certainly three years ago we wouldn't have seen this kind of potential, three years from now it could be even better.

EVAN CALIO: It is trending that way. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: So I guess some of the discussion around CapEx apart from oil prices comes from the slide at the Analyst Day this year, where obviously you demonstrated that cash flow was going to come on from the major projects from the work that Mike Wirth has been doing in the Downstream, and then obviously the shale contribution. But CapEx was going to stay relatively high to drive growth I guess beyond and into 2020. And the shade I see is sort of it $37 billion to $40 billion which is I guess more similar to this year.

So I'm trying to get a sense of what projects you were including in that sort of 2017 timeframe. You have mentioned Kitimat, IDD, Tengiz. How much of a contribution was there in that year, if you can share that with us, so we can get a sense of where the adjusted CapEx might be?

PAT YARRINGTON: So, I'm not sure that I completely understand the question. You are looking at 2017 --?

ED WESTLAKE: I'm looking at how much of Kitimat and IDD and Tengiz you were assuming in that sort of 2017 outlook that you gave us so that we can -- if they do delay not at Tengiz but Kitimat and IDD perhaps how much you would save?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. I think for all of those you would be talking about modest contributions in the 2017 time period.

ED WESTLAKE: Right.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. So, I don't think it is an impactful element in terms of hitting that target.

ED WESTLAKE: Right, on the CapEx side.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, no. I was talking on the production side, I am sorry. So you are talking on the CapEx side.

ED WESTLAKE: Yes.

PAT YARRINGTON: We didn't give a 2017 target. We did show you that slide that had cash from operations growing and C&E being more contained relative to cash from operations. We still stand by that overall profile. It is our distinct intent to widen out our free cash flow over time once we get into the cash generation phase of these critical projects.

We have been in this very unusual capital-intensive phase with Gorgon and Wheatstone and these large projects right on the heels of one another, we are coming off of that. LNG spending this year is going to probably be the peak LNG spending, $10 to $11 billion.

It will trail off in 2015, it will trail off again in 2016. And we don't have that kind of sequential large project queued up beyond that time period. So we will come out with a revised target on future year C&E as best we can in March at the Analyst Day meeting.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay, and then one for Jeff. The 20% CAGR, if I calculated that right, in the Permian is obviously quite impressive for any independent or major. What are the constraints? I mean the resource is clearly there. What are the constraints on perhaps even going faster perhaps as you get out into the second half of the decade in the Permian?

JEFF SHELLEBARGER: Okay, yes, well, I think the basin itself, if you look back the last three years, it is certainly capable of demonstrating that growth potential. I think we are up 500,000 -- we're almost 3 million barrels a day as an industry in that basin.

The constraints are what everybody talks about, it's just basic stuff like the labor force out there, that has been challenged, is a boom time out there. Water is an area of concern for some people. We work hard on that in terms of moving from freshwater to brackish non-potable drinking water, securing those supplies and the infrastructure around that. Sand has been an issue, but I think the service companies and others are starting to address that supply chain issue.

I think the real uncertainty for me is just how high that activity could go and what would be the knock on effects of that. But you've got to look at there is a lot of companies in there. In the current price environment maybe some of that stabilizes out.

I don't see the activity level that we see being at risk from takeaway capacity or really the contractor's ability to deliver. And that is one thing that we take into consideration when we look at our pace of investment.

ED WESTLAKE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Asit Sen, Cowen & Company.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Two quick ones here. First, could you update us on Kitimat? Potential timing of FID looks like at least one competing project is getting delayed. And secondly, could you update us on any labor productivity items on the West Coast of Australia in light of recent union agreement on Curtis Island? In other words, are things getting better?

JEFF SHELLEBARGER: Well, I can give a quick update on Kitimat; I will let Pat talk about Australia. So Apache has announced their intent to fully exit the project. We are still committed to this project. We think that the low-cost potentially prolific reserves up in the Liard and Horn River are going to make an attractive LNG project in time.

We have been very clear that we will not take FID of this project until we have gas contracts signed and we know that we've got a value adding economic project.

With respect to FID, we haven't given a date on that and we continue to do the feed work on the plant, the plant site, we continue to work with the government of British Columbia. We are encouraged by the recent news that has come out of there with respect to how they want to treat LNG in taxes. But our primary focus up there is really the appraisal and the delineation work that we have got going on in the Liard Basin.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. And with regard to the union contract issue in Australia, at this point in time we know that there has been a downstream agreement reached in principal with certain construction unions and that it still needs to be put to a vote by the union membership. So we have agreement at the leadership level, but we still need a vote at the union member level.

Frankly there is more dialogue in the press about challenges -- union-related challenges for us on this project than there have been reality on the ground. So the project continues to make good progress here.

And I guess one of the exciting things that I would just mention -- we didn't put it in the formal remarks. But we have secured -- I guess I will call it a floatel, I'm not sure what the right hoteling accommodation nomenclature is. But we have got the capacity over the next several weeks to bring over time about 1,200 additional workers to the island to work on the MEI work that is underway that needs to be done in the next year. So that is a good boost we think in productivity for that.

ASIT SEN: Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, BMO.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Pat, I wonder if you could give me an update on the Wheatstone budget. It's I think about 49% through now in terms of spend. Is it time now that we get a kind of -- a complete update in terms of how much that project is going to cost?

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. At this point, yes, you are right we are about 49% complete. It is a typical process for us to go through and do a mid-project update. I don't have a specific calendar date for that, but it would be a reasonable thing that we would do anytime between 40% and 60% of when the project is done. So I would say that's coming but I don't have a specific date as to when that will be completed.

IAIN REID: Okay. And maybe as a follow-up on another big international asset, Angola LNG. Can you give us a kind of cost to repair and some schedule for re-startup of that project?

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure, I can talk a little bit about the schedule side of things. But there is not a cost estimate that I have available to give to you. Let me just make sure -- we are just a 36% partner in a consortium here. We are not a controlling entity. We work through the partnership there.

But in terms of the progress on the repair work, we continue to make good progress there. We do at this point anticipate an initial restart somewhere around the middle of 2015. And after initial performance testing, as is typical, that plant will go down for a couple of month period of time while we clean out and remove the strainers, clean out the filters, etc. Then it will be brought back online and we anticipate restarting and working towards sustained production levels late in 2015.

OPERATOR: Did that answer your question?

IAIN REID: Yes. No, it did, thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you. All right, I guess we'll take the next caller.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: A couple on the Permian. First of all, when you look around and you benchmark yourself against maybe some of your smaller peers there on operating cost and other efficiency metrics how do you see yourself stacking up?

And then secondly, on the new projections for growth, does that imply a commensurate step-up in spending as well? Or have you been able to achieve some capital efficiency improvements from your initial projections that suggest that spending won't quite increase as much as the production is?

JEFF SHELLEBARGER: Yes, good questions. We benchmark ourselves all the time. We benchmark ourselves with respect to cost efficiency, our finding and development costs, etc., etc.

A year and a half ago we were probably down at the lower end of our competition. Part of that was because we were new in the basin and part of that was because we were focused on the appraisal and some of the other work to really understand what is going on in the basin in these new areas.

We made a concentrated effort in that area over the last 14 to 16 months. We've made significant improvements in our execution efficiency, our cost efficiency. And today I would say we are probably in the mid to upper part of the second quartile. Our performance targets here are to be the top of the heap there and we are making very, very good progress on getting there.

With respect to how we are improving and what is going on there, I mean it is really a host of things. Certainly we are seeing capital efficiency in what we are doing, so we are being able to drill more wells with the same amount of money. We are seeing efficiencies in our completions.

But I think even more important to that, moving to horizontal wells, moving to longer lateral lengths, moving to more stages. Our acreage position allows us to do that and we are going to see more of an impact on that in our production forecast than probably anything else.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, great. Thanks. And just one quick follow-up. Was the Duvernay sell down, was that included in the original $10 billion estimate of asset sales? And then is there any potential upside for that figure over the next couple years?

PAT YARRINGTON: We really wouldn't talk to what's included or excluded in our overall target. Obviously it is a significant component there. And in terms of future, I think your second question was our future effort in that regard?

ALLEN GOOD: I mean, do you think there is -- I'm sorry. Is there upside to that $10 billion figure? Now that you've gone through it a little bit and progressed through do see upside from your initial estimate?

PAT YARRINGTON: So I think that is going to be a function of what the market is going to allow. We have certain assets which, as we've tried to describe, are either early in life or late in life. We know what those assets are and we will, as I said, only go for the sales when we can get good value. So it will be a function of what the market will afford at that point in time.

But we are on track for the $10 billion. We can see our way to that almost at this point in time. Certainly this year, 2014, or it maybe there will be some slippage into first-quarter 2015 of some of the transactions that I have line of sight on. But I feel very good about where we sit at this point in time.

ALLEN GOOD: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Our final question comes from the line of Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Two quick ones on LNG. First in relation to Kitimat, with the tax announcement from the BC government earlier this month, is that still a hurdle or are you pretty satisfied with how that went?

JEFF SHELLEBARGER: Well, that is just one element of our investment decision. I think that what we are satisfied with is that the British Columbia government is very attentive to the realities of the industry. They have listened to what we have said, they have listened to what the buyers have said, and I think they made some very good moves in terms of what reality is out there and what it takes to make these projects economic.

We have had to work a whole a lot of other issues between now and FID and I think our view is that they will continue to remain flexible in those discussions.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay. And then you mentioned you want to sign offtakes for Kitimat before FID, but you also have some remaining capacity at Gorgon, which as I understand is still not covered by offtake. Are you prioritizing one versus the other if a particular customer is open to either option?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I think a fundamental driver there is that the volumes would be available under different time frames. I mean, Gorgon production starts in a year from now and ramps up with three trains over subsequent years. Kitimat was going to be in a much longer-term horizon there.

Just speaking to the Gorgon unallocated volumes or uncontracted volumes at this point in time. Yes, we are sitting at about 65%. We did have notionally some of that volume earmarked for as a backstop behind IDD from a customer arrangement standpoint. Now that the Indonesian Deepwater is no longer going forward on that same development time plan we are available to take some of those volumes that we had earmarked there and market them. And that is exactly what we are doing now.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, that is useful. Appreciate it.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. So I think that ends our queue at this particular point in time. So I would like to thank everybody on the call for your interest in Chevron and your participation with questions. We wish you a good day. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141102eaav006y3
  


 HD
 Q2  2014  Chevron  Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,665 words
   PD
1 August 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Jonathan and I will be our conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

   TD
PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Good morning and thank you, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's second quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today is George Kirkland, Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President, Upstream and Jeff Gustavson, General Manager Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

Turning to slide 3, the Company's second quarter earnings were $5.7 billion or $2.98 per diluted share. On a year to date basis earnings were $10.2 billion or $5.34 per diluted share. Included in this quarter's earnings were gains on asset sales of approximately $750 million and foreign exchange losses of $232 million, which together equate to a positive $0.27 per share. Year-to-date earnings, after netting gains, impairments and foreign exchange impacts, was $10.1 billion or $5.29 per share.

Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was approximately 12%. This reflects both the strength of our underlying producing assets and the fact that we are in the midst of a heavy construction period for a few key capital projects. Our debt ratio at the end of June was approximately 13%, similar to last quarter.

Our financial priorities are unchanged and we continue to reward shareholders with competitive distributions. We repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares during the second quarter and in the third quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.

Finally, Chevron's five-year total shareholder return at the end of the quarter was 18.4%, which continued to lead the peer group and was also in line with the S&P 500 over the same time period.

Turning to slide 4, cash generated from operations was $7.9 billion during the second quarter and $16.3 billion year-to-date. Cash capital expenditures were $8.9 billion during the quarter and $17.5 billion year- to-date. At the quarter end our cash balances exceeded $14 billion giving us a net debt position of $9 billion.

Slide 5 compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year. Second quarter 2014 earnings were $300 million higher than second quarter 2013 results. Foreign exchange effects negatively affected earnings by $232 million during the quarter, representing a negative swing of over half a billion dollars between periods. As a reminder, foreign exchange movements for us are largely book translation effects with minimal cash flow impacts.

Upstream earnings increased by $315 million. Gains on asset transactions of approximately $610 million in absolute terms and higher realizations were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impacts and higher exploration, DD&A and operating expenses.

Downstream results decreased by $45 million. Higher U.S. refining, marketing and chemical earnings were offset by lower international refined product margins along with adverse foreign exchange effects. Movement in the Other segment reflects an absence of a 2013 second quarter impairment and lower corporate expenses largely offset by higher corporate tax charges.

Turning to slide 6, I will now compare results for the second quarter of 2014 with the first quarter of 2014. Second quarter earnings were approximately $1.2 billion higher than firstquarter results. Upstream earnings were up $957 million reflecting gains on asset transactions, higher liftings, modestly stronger realizations and favorable tax effects. Partially offsetting were higher exploration and operating expenses in addition to an unfavorable foreign exchange movement between quarters.

Downstream results were essentially flat. The variance in the other bar largely reflects the absence of the impairment and related charges for a mining asset from the prior quarter partially offset by higher corporate expenses. Jeff will now take us through the comparisons by segment.

JEFF GUSTAVSON, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 7, our U.S. upstream earnings for the second quarter were $142 million higher than first quarter's results. Higher production volumes at the Perdido and Caesar/Tonga fields in the Gulf of Mexico and the Midland and Delaware basins in the Permian and in San Joaquin Valley increased earnings by $115 million.

Higher exploration expenses, mainly associated with the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, decreased earnings by $95 million. The second quarter included gains on several separate asset transactions worth approximately $180 million in total. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including lower natural gas realizations and higher operating expenses.

Turning to slide 8, international upstream earnings were $815 million higher than last quarter's results. Higher realizations and higher liftings increased earnings by $280 million. Our underlifted position in the first quarter was essentially neutralized. Gains on the sale of our interest in Chad and Cameroon increased earnings by $430 million. Lower impairments compared to the prior quarter resulted in an earnings increase of $140 million. An unfavorable movement in foreign currency effects decreased earnings by $95 million.

The second quarter had a loss of about $150 million compared to a loss of about $55 million in the first quarter. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including favorable tax effects offset by higher operating and exploration expenses.

Slide 9 summarizes the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the second quarter 2014 and the first quarter 2014. Production decreased by 43 thousand barrels per day between quarters. Shale and tight resources growth contributed 6 thousand barrels per day driven primarily by production increases from the Midland and Delaware basins in the Permian. We are also seeing continued growth from the Vaca Muerta shale in Argentina.

Major capital projects decreased volumes by 13 thousand barrels per day due to a shutdown of the LNG plant in Angola, partially offset by the ramp up at Papa-Terra in Brazil and Caesar/Tonga in the Gulf of Mexico. Planned turnarounds in Kazakhstan, Australia and in Denmark, among others, reduced production by 57 thousand barrels per day.

Absence of first quarter external constraints, largely weather-related disruptions in Kazakhstan, as well as lower demand in Thailand increased volumes by 27 thousand barrels per day. The base business and other bar reflects normal field declines.

Slide 10 compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the second quarter 2014 and the second quarter 2013. Production was 37 thousand barrels per day lower than the same period a year ago. Growing volumes from our shale and tight resources, primarily driven by the Permian in the U.S. and the Vaca Muerta in Argentina, increased production by 33 thousand barrels per day.

Major capital projects contributed 13 thousand barrels per day driven by Usan in Nigeria and Papa-Terra in Brazil, partially offset by the shutdown of the LNG plant in Angola. Higher turnaround activity, mainly in Kazakhstan, reduced production by 21 thousand barrels per day. Lower production entitlement effects due to lower cost recovery, higher prices and higher royalties reduced production by 37 thousand barrels per day. The base business and other bar principally reflects normal field declines.

Turning to slide 11, U.S. downstream results increased $95 million between quarters. Stronger margins increased earnings by $140 million driven by tighter product supply due in part to industry refinery maintenance combined with higher seasonal demand. Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $130 million. About half of this was due to higher cost related to shutdown and maintenance activities at the El Segundo refinery during the quarter.

The turnaround was completed at the end of June and refinery operations have returned to normal. The remainder reflects higher maintenance and repair expenses at our other refineries and incremental costs from the start up of the Pascagoula base oil plant. Gains on midstream asset sales improved earnings by $40 million between quarters. The other bar reflects a number of items including stronger chemicals results.

Turning to slide 12, international downstream earnings decreased $84 million between quarters. Increased volumes improved earnings by $75 million following the completion of turnarounds at our Thailand and South Africa refineries last quarter. Lower refinery margins decreased earnings by $15 million reflecting higher crude costs that could not be fully recovered in the marketplace.

Foreign exchange losses were approximately $55 million higher compared to prior quarter. The second quarter had a loss of about $85 million compared to a loss of about $30 million in the first quarter. Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $30 million. The other bar includes a number of unrelated items including minor asset transactions and lower trading results.

George will now provide an update on our upstream operations. George?

GEORGE KIRKLAND, VICE CHAIRMAN & EVP, UPSTREAM, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jeff. First I would like to highlight the progress on our Gorgon project. This photo shows the LNG plant in the foreground with the jetty in the distance. We continue to make excellent progress in the module fabrication yards and on Barrow Island. Module deliveries are continuing on schedule and we are achieving our key milestones.

Gorgon remains on track for a start up next year and will be a key contributor to our production growth in 2015 and beyond. I will share a bit more on Gorgon later.

Consistent with prior quarters we have posted additional progress photos for both Gorgon and Wheatstone which can be found on our Investors page at chevron.com. Now let's take a look at our upstream financial performance on slide 14.

Our 2014 year-to-date upstream earnings margin was $20.32 per barrel. This adjusted margin does not include gains from any of our recent asset sales in this quarter. Based on the results for our peer group through the first half of the year, we lead all our LTIP competitors by an average of over $3.50 per barrel.

Relative to the first half of 2013, our earnings margins have softened. Foreign exchange swings reduced our margin by $1.42 per barrel. This combined with higher exploration expense and DD&A have been the primary contributors to this decline. We are cognizant of the current macro environment, increasing cost of goods and services coupled with relatively flat commodity prices.

And we remain focused on managing controllable costs. Looking forward we are expecting strong contributions from our new MCPs as they come online. Now I will discuss our 2014 production results and outlook on slide 15.

Production in the first half of the year averaged 2.57 million barrels a day at an average year-to-date Brent price of just under $109 per barrel. The first half results were 43 thousand barrels per day, or 1.7% below our guidance. Relative to our guidance production entitlement effects reduced production by approximately 20 thousand barrels per day, and the unplanned outage at Angola LNG reduced production by a further 15 thousand barrels per day.

Our base business performed well. Over the first six months of the year we have maintained a base decline rate of less than 3%. We also continue to see strong growth from our shale and tight assets. During the second half of 2014 we anticipate further production ramp up at Papa-Terra in Brazil and our two Gulf of Mexico developments, Tubular Bells and Jack/St. Malo, as these are on schedule to come online.

During the second half of the year, we will perform the second of two planned turnarounds that TCO as well as execute large turnarounds in Thailand and in the North Sea. The production entitlement effects are anticipated to continue, and we don't expect any ALNG production in the second half of the year. Completed asset sales in the first half will of course affect second half production. We forecast 2014 production will average 98% to 99% of our January guidance.

Our 2017 growth to 3.1 million barrels per day remains on track as we bring on our new projects and progress our shale and tight resources. I would like to provide you with a little more detail on the production growth which we anticipate will occur over the next several years.

Turning to slide 16. Our peer leading growth to 2017 is largely driven by the start up of our major capital projects. For the last several years we have been in a period of high investment while our MCPs progressed through the construction phase. As these projects now transition to operations, beginning with our deepwater projects, Tubular Bells and Jack/St. Malo, we forecast significant volume and earnings growth.

We remain focused on executing our industry-leading queue of projects with excellence. We have the right people and processes to deliver these projects, and we are excited about the value creation.

While many projects contribute to our growth, the majority of our new volume is generated by eight of our largest MCPs: Gorgon and Wheatstone in Australia; Mafumeira Sul and ALNG in Angola; Papa-Terra in Brazil; and Jack/St. Malo, Tubular Bells and Big Foot in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.

Now I will review progress on six of these projects. Moving to slide 17. In early April Angola LNG experienced a failure in the flare blow down piping system. At the time of our first quarter earnings call the investigation was still underway. Following a thorough analysis a number of design issues have been identified which will require modifications.

In addition to the piping repairs, the ALNG team will utilize this shutdown to perform capacity and reliability enhancements to the plant. Following completion of repairs and testing the plant will restart and it is expected to achieve sustained production in the second half of 2015.

The Gorgon project is now more than 83% complete. All Train 1 and common modules required for LNG operations have been delivered to Barrow Island and installed on foundations. Other downstream work on Barrow continues to progress well with the jetty now 97% complete and the commissioning beginning this month on LNG Tank 1.

Delivery of Train 2 modules has begun and five are now on site. On the Gorgon upstream hydrotesting has been completed on all 660 kilometers of offshore pipelines. The well flow back and cleanup operations on the eight Gorgon wells is ongoing and drilling has been completed on the 10th and final Jansz-Io development well.

The next major milestone is the completion of LNG Tank 1 which is targeted for the end of this quarter. Wheatstone is now 40% complete, dredging, fill and piling work is progressing on schedule. The shore pull of the main 44-inch trunk line through the micro tunnel was completed safely and as planned. Shipments from fabrication yards have commenced with the delivery of the first slug catcher components to site.

The Wheatstone platform and topsides are now more than 63% complete and we anticipate the sail away of the platform Steel Gravity Structure in August. Wheatstone remains on track for a late 2016 start up. Now I will review progress on our Deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects.

Moving to slide 18. The Tubular Bells project is nearing start up. All key tie-ins have been installed and tested, and the wells are ready for production. Production operations are anticipated to commence in the third quarter. The remaining work on Jack/St. Malo is progressing well, and the project remains on track for a late fourth-quarter start-up. Overall, hook-up and commissioning and start-up progress is now 73% complete.

Tie-in spools for the Steel Catenary Risers have been installed, and gas pipeline pre-commissioning is complete. Jack/St. Malo will be a key contributor to our production growth in 2015 as production ramps up.

Big Foot shipyard-related construction is over 90% complete and preparations are being made for a fourth quarter sail away. Fabrication work on the Tension Leg Platform tendons is now complete and hull and topsides integration is nearing completion. The project team marked a major milestone with a heavy lift of the drilling modules this quarter and, as you can see in the picture on this slide, Big Foot remains on track for a 2015 start up.

We are pleased with the progress on our key Deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects. As these three projects ramp up during the next year we will see a significant uptick in production as we move towards our 2017 goal. At peak capacity, these projects will deliver Chevron approximately 100 thousand net barrels per day.

Now I will provide an update on our shale and tight activities. Please turn to slide 19. Chevron is the second largest producer in the Permian and has an enviable acreage position. We have the largest undeveloped leasehold and 90% of our acreage is either low or no royalty. We have over 17 thousand well prospects identified and the potential to add 8 thousand to 10 thousand more.

Since we are not in a drill or drop situation, our approach has been to allow others to de-risk acreage surrounding our own. This enables us to focus our capital on development wells rather than exploration and appraisal.

In the Midland Basin Wolfcamp play, industry drilling to date has been predominantly by vertical wells. Earlier this summer, we spud our first horizontal Wolfcamp well. We now have 17 rigs operating in the Midland Basin and 10 rigs operating in the Delaware basin where we added two rigs this quarter. We are on schedule to drill more than 500 wells this year in the Permian basin.

Turning now to Argentina. Chevron is pleased with our initial results in the Vaca Muerta. Drilling results have helped us identify two sweet spots where we are focusing our activity. In one of these areas we have commenced a horizontal program. We have seen a production uptick which gives us confidence that we will deliver the growth we anticipated when we entered this play.

Good progress is being made on our Duvernay program in Canada. Our wells have demonstrated good flow rates and high condensate yields, and we are confident of the quality of our acreage. In the third quarter, we anticipate spudding the first of 16 wells as part of our expanded appraisal program.

Also in Canada, we are continuing with the appraisal campaign in the Liard Basin. Results continue to indicate very favorable ultimate recoveries and high IPs, which will support our longer-term plans for this asset.

Moving to slide 20. I will now highlight a few additional ongoing activities. We continue to have good success on our exploration program in the Carnarvon Basin in Australia. Since our announcement of Elfin-1 in April of last year, we have made four additional discoveries. This provides us with additional gas resource and optimization alternatives for our Gorgon and Wheatstone LNG facilities.

In March we stated a target to deliver $10 billion in asset sales over the 2014 to 2016 time period, and we are on our way to meeting that goal. Our recent divestiture of the Chad assets is one example of our focus on monetizing a mature declining business which allows us to generate cash for potential reinvestment in other growth areas.

We are also progressing the sale of several other mature assets including the Netherlands, our non-operated interest in Draugen in Norway, several leases in Nigeria, as well as several smaller assets from our conventional North American portfolio. We recently achieved a major milestone at our Escravos Gas-to-Liquids plant with the production of GTL diesel and naphtha. We anticipate continued ramp up and first product lifting later this year.

Our exploration and development program in the Utica is yielding good results for both liquids and gas. Industry results in the Utica shale have been encouraging from Ohio into West Virginia and Pennsylvania. We recently achieved a test of more than 32 million standard cubic feet per day on a twenty-two, sixty-fourths choke at one of our wells in the emerging southern trend. We anticipate this well will be turned into line this fall.

And finally, we are also very encouraged with the initial results in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. Exploratory drilling and logging has indicated multiple pay zones in a large structure. We have begun initial drill stem tests and the formations have demonstrated the ability to deliver high liquid flow rates. On one of the two wells we plan to test up to nine different zones. We will continue with our KRI testing program over the months ahead. Now, I will turn it back to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thanks, George. Turning to slide 21, I would like to close with just a few thoughts. Global energy demand continues to grow and satisfying that demand growth is a great business opportunity for us. We have had the same basic strategies for a long time now. We believe they remain relevant and that they will continue to drive future value growth for our shareholders.

We continue to focus on execution. You just heard from George that our base business in the upstream continues to perform well and that we are making significant progress on our major capital projects. In the Downstream, we can also report success. The Pascagoula Base Oils Plant, or PBOP as we call it, is now online. First commercial production began in June and the plant ramped up to full production in mid-July. We are now the largest producer of premium base oils worldwide.

Focus on execution also means operating safely and reliably. Through six months our personal and process safety performance has been strong across all the measures we typically share with you - the days away from work rate, Tier 1 loss of containment and spills.

Sustained value creation requires reinvestment in our business. This is necessary to meet future energy demand and is vital to sustaining growing rewards for our shareholders. We have a broad, balanced and deep queue of investment opportunities and take a highly disciplined approach to capital allocation.

We are actively managing our portfolio and are on track to meet our stated target of achieving proceeds from asset sales of $10 billion over the 2014 to 2016 time period. Through six months, asset sale proceeds have totaled $1.6 billion and we are making good progress on a number of other planned transactions.

We have the best growth profile amongst the peers between now and 2017. Every quarter, as project milestones are checked off, we get one step closer to the inflection point. Indeed, two of the projects George highlighted are set to start-up in the second half of this year and two more in 2015.

Along with this sizable growth in volume we expect will come significant growth in cash flows. We expect free cash flow to grow as well thereby enabling higher shareholder distributions over time. In short, we are very excited about what lies ahead for the Company.

So that concludes our prepared remarks. I certainly appreciate you listening in this morning. We are now ready to take some questions. Please keep in mind that we do have a full queue, so try to limit yourself to one question and one follow up, if necessary. We will do our best to get all of your questions answered. Jonathan, please open the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, good morning and thanks, George, for your time on the upstream as well. Maybe just firstly a question on cash flow. Last year about $36 billion, this year sort of $33 billion if you annualize the first half and obviously oil prices have stayed higher.

It looks as if your turnarounds are in high margin areas, but is there any other deterioration in the cash flow relative to your expectations? Obviously you have given us some guidance on the Analyst Day of relatively strong cash flow growth from the 2013 basis as these major projects come on stream.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right, Ed, we feel good about our cash flow projections going out 2015, 2016, 2017. It is obviously predicated on the production growth that George went through on major capital projects, growth in the Permian. And, of course oil prices will be quite impactful.

If you are looking at the first half of this year relative to the second half, I think one of the comments I would make would be downstream. Downstream has not been as cash prolific perhaps as certainly we would like. Many of the turnarounds that we talked about on the slides are in the rearview mirror, so to speak, at this point. And so, the second half of the year, we believe, should be a better cash generation from a downstream standpoint.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. Then a question on the upstream just generally. I'm looking at slide 10, and of course you are slightly lower on production this year. But if you add up the turnarounds, production entitlements and base business you are losing some volumes. But even without major capital projects, the volume trajectory is relatively flat.

And then as I look at the slide that you put out, helpfully, on MCPs getting up to 900 thousand barrels a day from the big projects and the other stuff that you are doing. And then I think about shale, it feels like something has to get worse to miss the 3.1 million barrels a day, sort of 2017 guidance, which is a good position to be in. But I am just wondering what is it that gets worse in your assumptions as you look out?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Ed, I just don't have any things to get worse in our assumptions. If you remember when we came through at the Security Analyst Meeting meeting and gave you our forecast of 3.1 million barrel a day we showed a 50 thousand barrels a day buffer. So there is a buffer in there.

And part of the reason we had that buffer was always the forecasting ability, but recognize that we have talked a lot more about asset sales, and we have asset sales in our plan. We don't always know exactly what asset sales will actually occur. We are very focused always on the value proposition of those, and that is really what we have got to focus on, creating the greatest value on those asset sales.

And as a reminder, when we look at asset sales we are looking at two pieces. We are looking end of life assets, do they have continuing investment opportunities. And then, of course, we look at some of our assets that are on the front-end that don't compete for funds.

So we have got a little bit of latitude in there to cover some of the asset sale losses that occur when we sell these properties. But I can't give you the details on those because we are very value driven. We are going to make the best decision on getting the greatest value for anything we sell.

ED WESTLAKE: And very sneakily at the end, just in terms of three questions, it is not an entitlement change as you go forward. The pace of current entitlement changes stays flat through the forecast, do you think?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Let me explain a little bit about the entitlement changes, and this probably heads off questions that we are likely to get from others. Each year when we give you our production forecast, we have modeled and we have all kinds of assumptions on production entitlements. We do our very best job to try to nail those entitlements.

We have a 20 thousand barrels a day impact in our entitlements that are greater than what we had anticipated. We have shown that in that section for me. You have to understand when we model this, we have all kinds of assumptions. I will just deal with two of those, the two biggest ones that make up most of this 20 thousand barrels a day.

The two of them are in TCO and in Bangladesh. The TCO one, we make assumptions of how much crude we are going to move via rail versus how much crude we are going to move on the CPC pipeline. We have that assumption, that gives us a really good indication of royalty netback at the wellheads. So that gives us net back at the wellheads, which impacts our royalty assumptions.

This year, we have moved more barrels on the CPC because it was available. Actually about 80 thousand barrels a day TCO has moved more than was in the plan. That is great for us, that is great for Kazakhstan, great for the partnership because we get higher netbacks.

We have also had higher prices on the sulfur, and sulfur sold at a higher price translates to a higher netback for us at the well head also and that reduces net production. It is a really good thing for all of us, so that is really positive. So it is a value decision, right value decision.

Similarly in Bangladesh, we have had an agreement on how we would look at VAT. VAT is now going to be reimbursed, and the reimbursement will in effect reduce our cost barrels. There is an impact on that. It is good for us to clear up the VAT issue. It is good from a profit gas or profit oil basis going forward, that removes that cost out of it.

So that is another value creator for us, not nearly as big as the TCO one but it is a positive for us. And those two items made up most of the difference on this entitlement. Good things, right way to run the business, but we didn't have it modeled that way in our plan and I will tell you, we are always going to go after the piece that makes the most value sense. Maybe that will help.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Good morning, everyone. The first question I had is for George. Relating to the startups in the lower tertiary. George, you said in the past that the key to really good returns there would be increasing recoveries from I think you plan on 10% towards 20% recoveries. What is the path towards this, and the timeframe, I guess, towards us getting a better idea of how those recoveries will play out? Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, thanks for the question. Historically what we had actually said is we looked at recoveries, initially would be in the 8% to 10% range, and then that we saw technologies, either completion technologies, reducing back pressure on the reservoir, items such as those technologies that would increase the recovery towards the 15% and then on to 20%.

We do believe we are on track for that. I am going to feel a lot more confident as we get the first Jack/St. Malo wells on, and we see our new completion technology, how successful we are there. We will be watching production rates.

I will tell you I am encouraged. We have done the cleanup on a number of those wells already, so when the facilities are ready we will be able to turn them on, and we will initially get a quick look, of course, at production rates. If our production rates are at the high end of our assumption, that is going to give us confidence that we are going to get a little bit more recovery.

We should actually have some pretty good confidence in that -- a little bit of impact on our recovery view. And of course we will have a much stronger view on production volumes, as we get to the end of the year, in March as we get a little bit of run time on these wells. I feel good with what we have seen on the cleanup though, and I will just leave it there qualitatively.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. Interesting. And then the follow-up I had was on Gorgon start up. When you say mid-2015 is that the first production of gas, the first production of LNG or the first sale of LNG? Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: It is the first production of LNG. It is not gas introduced into the plant. We have a target to see gas introduced into the plant this year because we need the gas introduced into the plant to start commissioning activities.

So one of our early activities is getting gas introduced in the plant, getting the turbine generators running, get power support for the operations. That utility piece is very critical to the start up and is actually a milestone that we will be talking about more in the next quarter's call.

PAUL SANKEY: Cool. And then the actual sale of LNG, when would that be?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I am not going to go that next step. I am going to leave it until we have the first LNG in the tank which we will announce. And once we have first LNG we will be announcing our target for first lifting.

PAUL SANKEY: Interesting. Thanks. And you are still trying to sell more contracts there, aren't you? Is there any reason why we haven't heard more about that given you have shown modeling of a shortage of LNG long-term? I'm just surprised we haven't heard more about contracts. And I will leave it there. Thank you.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, we are still looking at opportunities to sell more gas. We really don't have a lot more to sell. Remember on the Wheatstone side we already sit at 85%, so we are fully sold out there. As a reminder, we have some ability to move gas in our contracts from different assets we own, so we have some flexibility.

We are still once again looking to increase that, but we are value driven so we need to get a price that we think is appropriate. The spot market has been good on a seasonal basis the last year, so we feel pretty good about the volumes if we had to move them into the spot side. Preferentially we would move them to a longer-term sales contract if we get the right kind of pricing.

PAT YARRINGTON: And Paul, I would just add that with the degree of uncertainty that there is about U.S. exports and the size of U.S. exports, I think you can understand why buyers might want to wait a little bit to see how that all lands out before going forward to secure longer-term contracts.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, I will leave it there. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Pat, I wonder if I could follow-up on Ed Westlake's question because this is something we have been kind of wrestling with. It may be overly simplistic, but you gave us cartoon at the Analyst Day that showed how the cash margin improves, let's say in a $110 oil environment, so let's call that same-store sales with last year at $36 billion.

But when we take the delta on production growth and the delta on the margin, it only adds about $8 billion to the cash flow, so that gets you to $44 billion, you are spending a little under $40 billion, the dividends are $7 billion and your buybacks are $5 billion. So can you help me with what else are you assuming in that inflection in cash flow that you talked about in your prepared remarks? Because your offstream guidance doesn't really seem to get us there.

PAT YARRINGTON: Are you talking about 2015 or 2017?

DOUG LEGGATE: In the cartoon it shows the post 2016 portfolio which I assume is, if we look at 3.1 million barrels a day in 2017 and the current portfolio at 2.7 million barrels a day last year would generate the $36 billion. So I'm trying to understand how big do you think the delta is, because according to your cartoon it is only about $8 billion.

PAT YARRINGTON: If you start from a 2013 base and you look out to 2015 -- let me just be clear on the assumptions that we have in there. We are moving from the [2.6] (corrected by Company after the call) million barrels a day last year to the 3.1 million barrels a day in 2017. The assumption on price in that slide was $110 a barrel Brent.

When you look at the increase in volume you also get an accretion on the cash margin and that accretion is coming from significantly the major capital projects that George has just run through. Predominantly, Gorgon and Wheatstone are huge contributors. That is really what gives you an underlying increase in upstream cash flows between what we saw at the base of 2013 and what we are expecting in 2017.

On top of that, there will be, we believe, higher contributions in cash flows from our downstream sector. Obviously, it is not as significant a growth element, but there will be contributions on the chemical side and on the lubricant side and some on the R&M side.

So when you put those components all together, we feel comfortable about saying under those set of assumptions, particularly price and volume, you are going to get to a $50 billion cash generation figure.

And I think the point that is really important here is the margin accretion that we have talked to for a couple of years here is not just on the incremental barrels, it is on the full portfolio. And that is really the compelling point here. Those projects coming online have the capacity to pull up the entire cash margin over the whole portfolio.

DOUG LEGGATE: I appreciate the answer. I will take it off-line with Jeff because, like I say, I am using your numbers and the delta looks like $8 billion, but I will talk to Jeff offline.

My follow-up is really a Gorgon question, George, and thanks for getting on the call this morning. You talk about start up on Train 1, but can you talk to the ramp up to Train 3? Because obviously -- you are obviously familiar with the chatter that has been out there constantly while this project has been moving forward, but start up is one thing but what about the ramp beyond that? Can you give us some comfort level on the pacing of Train 2 and Train 3 and I will leave it there? Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Historically we have said, we saw six months between train start ups. So I will try to give you a little more context of what is happening on Train 2 and Train 3. And I think very frankly it is very good news on the Train 2.

Modules, we expect we will have almost -- well, I will just say most of the modules for Train 2 on Barrow Island by the end of the year. And we will even have a few, we think, of the Train 3 modules. So the module piece of the work is going quite well so it is moving forward very well. We don't see any of the module work at this point on the critical path.

So all of that puts us in a strong position to say we are not seeing any slide on time between the start up of Train 1 and Train 2. And if anything we may even see that tighten up a little bit. But it is a little early to go there, but it looks good at this point and that is a real positive. Critical for us to get Train 1 up and then we will answer a lot of questions. Okay?

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks very much and appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon, guys. The position on free cash flow is clear. A question for George. Staying with LNG, one of your partners, Apache, yesterday announced plans to exit Kitimat LNG and Wheatstone for that matter. Any update on that project and does Apache's exit change how you think about the risk profile of that potential project?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We need to get our partnership resolved. That means Apache needs to move through the issues and we need to get a new partner in. That needs to happen. That is, I think, quite obvious. As long as we keep moving forward in the assessment of the resource in Liard - I feel very good about the resource assessment. I think we already can check off our confidence level on the other resources, the Horn River resources is already high. We have really done that appraisal.

So the focus on the resource side is really drilling in Liard, some appraisal work there and getting some production work. We think we will actually have those first wells that we need to get some production data. We are going to be complete with them somewhere near the end of the year. So that is a really important step for us.

The other pieces that we are spending money on is, related to Liard, a little bit of money on how we are going to actually handle the upstream initial production and then, of course, we focus on the pipeline and the pipeline corridor. That is important for us.

We are putting some money to try to finalize the pipeline routing, get all our clearances and then we have work at this point going on, FEED work on the plant itself. We have to understand cost and schedule on that plant.

Those are the important things. We are not spending huge money, but it is a lot of money in the terms of hundreds of millions of dollars.

Now it is critical for us to have all of that where we can deal knowledgeably with buyers. We have to understand cost, we have to understand resource where we can deal with the particulars of pricing because we are not going to do a project unless it is economic.

We have always told you we are not going to go to FID on a project until we have 60% of the gas sold. We have to understand the project in a good sense to do that, we have got to understand the resource. I think we are moving quite well on answering the resource issue.

I am not concerned if Apache leaves. I think we could easily step in and be operator of the upstream, quite confident there. Apache has been very good to work with in the early stages of the assessment at Liard.

So I think we are in good shape, but we need to get clarity, we need to get to closure on the partnership. And this work I mentioned, we need to do all of that where we can deal with buyers and understand cost and understand economics. We are very value driven. We are not going to go to an FID on a project until we have gas sales and we understand the economics of that sale.

EVAN CALIO: Great, thanks. My follow-up is if you could discuss Permian production in the quarter, and just how much did that contribute to the sequential 5% increase in U.S. volumes? And then as you think about 2015 and really bridging to the major project volumes in 2016 through 2018, do you see a scope and ability to further ramp Permian more significantly to bridge, like I said, the other major projects? Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Let me start with the last part of that a little bit. Permian for us is an area we can increase investment and increase production. We would rather ramp up at an appropriate speed where we are very cost efficient on drilling and on infrastructure.

So from that perspective it is a little bit of an asset that we can gauge and move the speed. Specifically in the quarter I think we have a 5 thousand barrel a day plus and from the Permian area that was good. We are right now running 27 rigs. We have 14 verticals and 13 horizontals so that is really good.

I gave you the numbers on the slide of how many wells that have been drilled this year and I believe that was 265. We had told you in March this year that we were going to drill 500. You can see that we are ahead of schedule on that. I think it is related to some efficiencies we have seen in the rig operations. We have a grand focus on reducing cost.

This business out there is frankly about two things -- it is drilling cost, getting your drilling costs down and getting your recovery up. We have got great focuses on both of those and, like I said, we are seeing the response. We are getting a few more wells, and we are getting more barrels. We like what we see, the more we continue to see that, of course we are going to be more willing to push more money there.

EVAN CALIO: Great, George. I will leave it there. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: George, two questions if I could. On both Wheatstone and Kitimat, can you talk about from Chevron's position whether you have any interest to further increase your existing interest?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, I will be happy to. And maybe for everyone on the phone I will put in perspective a little bit Wheatstone and our interest relative to others, and I will try to do that on Kitimat.

At the Wheatstone asset level, so this is Wheatstone and Iago, the upstream piece of it, we hold 80% of that. Remember you have a partnership that is between Apache and KUFPEC that is bringing Brunello-Julimar online into a common facility offshore. And that our investments in the Wheatstone project, and the LNG portion of it, is unitized, if you will, after that.

The fields are not, but we have a joint project from a central platform, a trunk line and into an LNG plant. And at that point when you look at the LNG portion of its Downstream, that portion of it we are investing 64%.

We have got all the interest we really want. It is the high end of our interest that we would normally have in any operation. I typically like to be, when I operate, in this 40% to 60% range, so our working interest is at the high end of that, and we are quite comfortable. We don't see any reason to have any more working interest in Wheatstone or other assets there.

Now speaking on Kitimat, and I will build off of some of those earlier comments. We hold 50% of the interest in Kitimat, Liard, Horn River assets. That is right in the middle of the sweet spot where we like to be on working interest where we are committing people to run the projects and run operations.

What we have told the Street in the past, and I will reinforce this, we actually hold 50% -- I don't want any more than the 50% and we do have available some small amount of working interest that we would provide to an LNG buyer.

And there has always been a plan for us and Apache to have some volumes that we could -- some working interest -- that could be sold down to buyers where they would be a part of the development, and they would be in the full value chain. That has not changed, and I am not looking to increase our working interest beyond the 50%.

PAUL CHENG: Second question, if I am looking at page 16 of the presentation, next year the major projects, the current expected increase is 150 thousand barrels per day. Your base operation previously assumed is at 3% underlying decline curve, I assume that has not changed. That translated to roughly about an 80 thousand barrels per day jump year over year.

So that means that based on this particular graph it would suggest this seems to imply your expected production growth for next year about 2% to 3%, get to about 2.65. I don't know whether you can give us a number what is your current projection for 2015, or if not, can you tell us whether there is any other things that we should take into consideration in this calculation?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, you are good with numbers. Let me speak qualitative to this. First off, we give you our commitment, our commitment number or guidance in January each year. So in 2015, January 2015, we will give you our guidance.

I will only give a few qualitative comments about -- you have done the numbers right relative to the MCP. Our base decline is running in this 3% or less, that is true. We haven't yet given you guidance on two other items and I will tell you we are working that at this point in time.

How many barrels are we going to have on our shale and tight? We have got investments going in shale and tight in the Permian, that is not in this number. How well is Vaca Muerta going to actually perform? So we have those two that are significant, and we have got to identify those as we go through our business plan process. And of course we have another one that we haven't told anyone and we haven't even -- ourselves haven't decided on which assets we are going to sell.

So we have some sales that are going to occur, we are once again value driven, so I don't know which ones are the ones that we are going to end up and sell. It is what is the whole value of them for us versus what will someone else pay on these late life assets? So those are the two aspects that I can't really answer at this point in time, but we will be able to give you an answer in January.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Jefferies & Company.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks, everyone. I wanted to come back to Gorgon if I could. George, if I was interpreting your comments correctly, it seems that critical path on Train 1 would be more delivering first gas on the island and commissioning work on the train itself and also the utilities. Can you confirm that is correct?

And when you think about the risks towards meeting that mid-2015 objective, where would you put labor amongst those and what is your labor contract situation? I am just thinking in light of what is happening on Curtis Island right now.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Let me start off on the critical path items going for us. ME&I is critical for start up. That is heavily dependent on labor productivity. We have over 5,000 people working on the island. It is all about for us getting as much of that effort focused on the ME&I piece of it. And I guess I would add one other thing -- and we don't find any unknown problem.

As we get closer and closer to start up, and this is true for every project that everyone does in the world, it is these unknowns that you just frankly don't know what is going to come up and is it something that is easily mitigated, or is it something not. And we don't ever know that until we get them all done.

The good news is every day you get closer, you eliminate more and more of them. And being at 83% we have already eliminated a lot of them. Like logistics, we know is not a critical path. We were worried about the jetty, it is not the critical path. So we are eliminating those every day. Some big milestones that we will report out in the following quarters, an example of a big one is the tank, we want to make sure that we have LNG Tank 1 ready.

Often on LNG projects the tanks are the critical path. We are just about to the point to see LNG Tank 1, with it being complete, it is not going to be on the critical path. I mentioned ME&I, one of the big next ones for us is the start up of our turbine generators. We have got all five of our generators there on the island.

The next big step, and a big important step for us, a milestone, is of course power. We get the power running, that puts us in a great position on the commissioning. And that is something we will talk about on our next call. We will keep giving you this information as we click them off and I do encourage everyone, since this is being brought up again, to take a look at some of those photos that we have. I think they really give you a flavor of what work is being completed.

JASON GAMMEL: And George, where do you sit in terms of labor contracts -- or excuse me, where do some of the contractors sit in terms of their labor contracts? And do you have any changes to cost estimate? I think I know the answer to that one. And would you expect to do a Wheatstone cost evaluation at the 50% completion mark like what you did with Gorgon?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: That is a yes, we always do that on all of our projects, Jason. Labor is very important. We never take that for granted. We always have a strong focus on the industrial relations piece. We do have some contracts that have to be renegotiated, and of course, we are going to focus on making sure we deal with them where they don't become an issue.

JASON GAMMEL: Thanks a lot, George.

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Thank you. I have got a couple of quick ones for you, George. With Jack/St. Malo, are you going to ramp those wells up the way you would a Miocene well since they are different? Just curious.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I would actually think that we are going to probably see a little bit slower ramp up on those. Remember these are very high pressure wells. The last thing we want to do is do any damage to the completion. We are going to be very focused and I would say probably a little bit on the cautious side on the ramp of these and make sure we really understand what is happening at the base of the completion.

JOHN HERRLIN: Great, thanks. Then with the Permian, you are talking about drilling a lot of wells. Any issues with basin evacuation in terms of fluids or gas -- in terms of infrastructure?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think it is becoming a little more challenging for the industry in total. We feel very good about where we are in our position. That is one of the huge benefits for being a company that has been a large producer there for the long history of the basin. So we are in a good position on that. I would tell you the other real positive, the industry in Texas moves darn quick at solving infrastructure problems.

JOHN HERRLIN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, everybody. If I could follow-up on an earlier question in terms of the pace of the onshore. If we look at your performance, I think over the past 12 months the biggest bar on the growth side was from your tight and shale assets. You have got extremely high quality positions in the Permian and Argentina and a number of other places.

And given the volatility of performance in some international offshore assets on timing and the smoother profile and the returns on the onshore side, is there a case to be made, not just over the next 12 months, but over the next five years to reallocate more capital in that direction and away from some of the other projects?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We have to look at it on a portfolio basis, and that is what we do each and every year as we build a new three-year business plan and actually a longer strategic plan. When you have a portfolio that has lots of options out there, you can move things in and out quite easily, but it takes a portfolio that has got these options available.

We do that each and every year. We don't like to jerk any of our businesses around. We like to keep our rig counts, if they are growing we like to keep them growing in a gradual manner, not a big spurt. We are more efficient when we do that, and of course we have to balance all of that with our capital programs.

We don't have an infinite amount of capital spend, so we try to get our capital focused on how we can get the best returns. So we are going to I guess high grade our view going forward of how we want to spend our money in our business plan each year. We told you at our analyst meeting, the next three years we are going to be really capital flat. That means we are going to be looking at how we get the most value out of that capital we spend.

My anticipation is that we will continue to see a little more money continuing to go to the Permian basin. But the Permian basin or these other shale plays cannot offset the impact of these big projects either. We need all of that in our portfolio to grow. We must have all the big projects.

And frankly what the continuous plays give us, they give us another piece that is more continuous in growth and a nice part to have in your portfolio. And we are going to grow that a little bit over time, so it is going to give us a little more flexibility as we go forward.

PAT YARRINGTON: I think we've got time for just one more question here.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thanks. I have two quick ones. You have highlighted the production uplift from the Vaca Muerta, but given the headlines from Argentina this week are you reconsidering or adjusting any investment?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We believe our contract and the terms we have and have negotiated provide us appropriate cover. I'm just going to leave it there. We feel good about our investments, the way it is set up. We are frankly pleased with the progress that we are making there. We are making good progress.

The next big thing for me is actually continuing to watch the performance of the asset. And I am particularly interested in these two new sweet spots where we are drilling more wells. And what I want to see there is I want to see a production kick up, and then I will feel better. But I feel good contractually with what we have established.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, that is helpful. And on Kitimat, given the pending Apache exit, are you still likely to be able to reach FID by the end of this year or are we looking at 2015 at this point?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We will reach FID, and we are running our business there to be able to get to FID, shortly after having 60% to 70% of our gas committed to an SPA, a sales and purchase agreement. That is the critical decision maker on both timing and the investment decision.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, so irrespective of what happens with Apache?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Irrespective of what happens with Apache. We are driven by once again having a sales contract or sale contracts that give us 60% to 70% of the gas committed at an economic price.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Thanks very much.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Thank you. Before we close the call I would like to mention that going forward, we will no longer be issuing an interim update. For those of you who have followed us for some time, you will know that we have modified the format of our update over the past few years in an effort to have it be a clear and effective document.

I have to say that that effort has not met with 100% success. Rather many investors have suggested that it has not been all that helpful or insightful and at times has added confusion rather than clarity. That is not a good place to be, and hence our decision to stop the practice.

We do remain committed though to full disclosure and transparency. And, as we have in the past, we will strive to be very candid and clear in describing Company performance in our earnings releases, in our earnings calls and our 10-Ks and our 10-Qs and in all of our other investor outreach activities.

I would like to thank everybody for your time today. We truly appreciate your interest in Chevron. Jonathan, back to you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140803ea81005k1
  


 HD
 Q1  2014  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,665 words
   PD
2 May 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.

   TD
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.

(Operator Instructions).

As a reminder this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Okay, thank you Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter earnings conference call and webcast.

On the call with me today is Jeff Gustavson, General Manager for Investor Relations. We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's first-quarter earnings were $4.5 billion, or $2.36 per diluted share. Results are consistent with our earlier guidance where we highlighted specific negative impacts associated with foreign exchange and selected asset impairments and related charges which totaled approximately $500 million for the quarter, or $0.26 per share.

Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 12%. Our debt ratio at the end of March was approximately 13%.

Turning to slide 4, cash generated from operations was $8.4 billion during the first quarter. Cash capital expenditures were $8.5 billion. At quarter end our cash balances totaled $16.2 billion giving us a net debt position of $6.9 billion.

On slide 5, this week Chevron's Board of Directors declared a $1.07 per share quarterly common dividend payable in mid-June. This represents an 8% annualized payout increase. Since 2004 we have grown the dividend by a compound annual rate in excess of 10% which leads the competitor group.

In the first quarter, we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares. In the second quarter, we expect to repurchase the same amount.

We are committed to competitive, consistent and growing shareholder distributions. This demonstrates the importance we place on balancing long-term investor return objectives, achieved through reinvestment in the business with near-term return objectives achieved through distributions. It also reflects the strength of our balance sheet, our strong portfolio and our confidence in the cash generation potential of our growth projects.

Turning to the next slide, we've incorporated two new slides into the presentation this quarter which provide year-on-year comparisons consistent with our earnings press release. The first, shown on slide 6, compares current-quarter earnings with the same period last year.

First-quarter 2014 earnings were $4.5 billion, approximately $1.7 billion lower than first-quarter 2013 results. Adverse foreign exchange movements accounted for $325 million, or 20% of the overall decline.

You will recall that foreign exchange movements for us are largely book translation effects with very little cash flow impacts. Upstream earnings were down $1.6 billion. In addition to unfavorable foreign exchange impacts of about $225 million, the deterioration reflected lower crude oil production and liquids realizations and higher tax effects, DD&A and exploration expenses.

Downstream results were essentially flat. And the Other segment reflected the impairment of a mining asset which resulted in an approximate $265 million absolute impact during the quarter and was offset to a large degree by lower corporate expenses.

Turning to slide 7, I will now compare results for the first quarter of 2014 with the fourth quarter of 2013. First-quarter earnings were $418 million lower than fourth-quarter results. Upstream earnings were down $545 million with adverse foreign exchange movements accounting for two-thirds of this decline.

The timing of liftings was a second significant contributor to Upstream's quarter-on-quarter deterioration. Downstream results increased by $320 million with nearly equal improvements noted in the US and the International segments.

The current quarter had favorable impacts from lower operating expenses, stronger Chemicals results and positive foreign exchange movements all of which more than offset the adverse volume effects of a heavier turnaround schedule. The variance in the Other bar largely reflects the impairment of a mining asset partially offset by lower corporate expenses.

Jeff will now take us through the comparisons by segment. Jeff?

JEFF GUSTAVSON, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 8.

Our US Upstream earnings for the first quarter were $109 million higher than fourth-quarter's results. Higher realizations increased earnings by $130 million mainly due to the rise in US natural gas prices. Overall liquids realizations also rose in large part reflecting crude pricing strength on the West Coast.

Lower production volumes primarily in the Gulf of Mexico reduced earnings by $50 million. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including the absence of year-end LIFO losses and lower exploration expenses partially offset by higher DD&A.

Turning to slide 9. International Upstream earnings were $654 million lower than last quarter's results. Realizations decreased earnings by $50 million, consistent with the decline in Brent prices between quarters.

The timing of liftings across multiple countries decreased earnings by $235 million. Year to date we are approximately 4% under lifted, which as you know, should reverse in the coming quarters.

Lower exploration expenses increased earnings by $190 million mainly driven by fewer exploration well write-offs and overall lower geological and geophysical expenses across multiple locations. An unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects decreased earnings by $355 million. The first quarter had a loss of about $55 million compared to a gain of $300 million in the fourth quarter of last year.

The Tax and Other bar reflects unfavorable tax effects, many of which were non-income related. This quarter's results include several non-operational, items namely impairments, which negatively impacted Upstream segment earnings by about $150 million.

Adjusting for these effects our unit earnings for the quarter would have been approximately $20 per barrel. The reconciliation of non-US GAAP earnings can be found in the appendix of this slide presentation. The Upstream segment was also negatively impacted by FX effects and the timing of liftings, both of which are normally transitory in nature.

Slide 10 summarizes the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the first-quarter 2014 and the fourth-quarter 2013. Production increased by 12,000 barrels per day between quarters.

Major Capital Projects contributed 21,000 barrels per day related to higher volumes at Angola LNG and the ramp-up associated with the Papa-Terra field offshore Brazil. Shale and Tight resources growth contributed 12,000 barrels per day driven by production increases from the Midland and Delaware Basins in the Permian as well as continued production ramp-up from the Vaca Muerta Shale in Argentina.

The Base Business and Other bar includes the impact of normal field declines and weather-related disruptions primarily due to extremely low temperatures in Kazakhstan, partially offset by lower production downtime related to several assets.

Slide 11 is the second of two new slides incorporated into the presentation this quarter and compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the first quarter 2014 and the first quarter last year. Production was 57,000 barrels per day lower than the same period a year ago.

Growing volumes from our Shale and Tight resources in the Permian and the Marcellus regions in the US and the Vaca Muerta Shale in Argentina increased first-quarter production by 37,000 barrels per day. Major Capital Projects contributed 23,000 barrels per day driven primarily by production growth from Angola LNG and Papa-Terra in Brazil.

Production was impacted by external constraints related to the very cold temperatures in Kazakhstan as well as lower demand in Thailand due to a lightning strike which damaged a customer's gas processing plant in the third quarter of 2013. The Base Business and Other bar includes normal field declines along with other unrelated impacts. Our base decline rate averaged less than 3% between quarters.

Turning to slide 12. US Downstream results increased $157 million between quarters. Planned turnarounds at our Richmond, California and Pascagoula, Mississippi refineries lowered volumes and decreased earnings by $85 million compared to last quarter. More than offsetting these volume effects were benefits from lower OpEx worth $95 million and stronger Chemicals results worth $80 million.

Stronger US Chemicals results reflected higher margins for benzene, olefins and polyolefins from our Chevron Phillips Chemical joint venture. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items primarily higher gains on Midstream asset sales, partially offset by modestly lower realized margins particularly on the West Coast reflecting weak seasonal demand.

Moving to slide 13. International Downstream earnings increased $163 million between quarters. Reduced volumes from turnarounds at our Thailand and South Africa refineries decreased earnings by $75 million during the quarter. Stronger Asia R&M margins improved earnings by $70 million.

Increased demand drove refining crack spreads higher particularly for mogas and fuel oil. In addition, favorable price lag effects improved marketing margins.

Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $85 million about half of which is related to fuel costs. Reduced foreign exchange losses contributed about $70 million to earnings. The first quarter had a loss of $28 million compared to a loss of $96 million in the fourth quarter.

The Other bar includes a number of unrelated items including higher Chemicals results partially offset by the absence of positive year-end LIFO inventory effects recorded in the fourth quarter.

With that, I would now like to turn it back to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, Jeff, thanks. Turning to slide 14.

We hosted our Security Analyst Meeting in early March where we provided a comprehensive update on the Company's performance, projects and future growth prospects. At that time full information was not available for some of the competitor comparisons. It is available now and the segment return on capital employed updates are shown here.

Our Upstream return on capital employed for 2013 was just over 17%. We have led the direct peer group for three years.

In addition, our returns in 2013 were nearly twice the average returns of the larger E&P group and 3% higher than the very best company in that group. This speaks to the strength of our portfolio and is especially impressive considering our current levels of reinvestment, which we expect will generate peer-leading volume growth going forward.

Our Downstream return on capital employed trended lower in 2013, consistent with the rest of the industry. We delivered a 10% return and held a number two rank in the peer group, our sustained position for the last four years.

Turning to slide 15, and updated information on 2013 Upstream cash margins. During 2013, with a $38 per barrel cash margin, we were the best in the peer group by over $10 per barrel. We continue to post the highest realizations in the peer group.

Our oil-weighted portfolio is providing us with a lasting relative advantage. We are also competitive on operating costs and have made sound investment decisions, both of which support our strong cash margin position.

Over the past four years, the movement in our cash margin relative to the competition has been remarkable as shown on the chart on the left. While we have gained $15 per barrel in cash margin, our peers have gained only $8 on average. Importantly, we expect to maintain or even increase our cash margins going forward.

At our Analyst Meeting, we used a Brent price of $110 per barrel as the basis for our forward cash flow and production projections. We have received a number of questions around the selection of the $110 per barrel price, and I want to be clear that this is not an internal price forecast but is simply the actual average Brent price over the 2011 to 2013 time period. Using prior-years' actual pricing is the same methodology we have applied for several years now in our Analyst Presentations.

At this historical three-year average Brent price of $110 per barrel our cash margin is expected to increase to over $40 per barrel later this decade. This is a critical part of our value proposition as the combination of strong volume growth and an accretive cash margin is expected to drive significant growth in our cash flow from operations over the next several years.

Turning to slide 16. I'd like to provide a brief progress update on some of our Major Capital Projects and other growth opportunities.

These are laid out across three growth themes -- deep water, primarily in the US Gulf of Mexico; LNG, in particular our two large Australian projects; and Shale and Tight resource areas, most notably the Permian Basin in the US and the Vaca Muerta Shale in Argentina.

Starting with the Deepwater, as noted last month the Jack/St. Malo platform was moored in its final location earlier this year. We continued installation and commissioning activities including final testing of flowlines and export lines.

The project is on budget and is on track for late start-up in the fourth quarter of this year. For Tubular Bells, which is operated by Hess, hook up and commissioning is nearly 40% complete and start-up is expected before year-end.

We also made significant progress at Big Foot during March. The oil export pipeline has been installed and we are preparing to lift the drilling module to the topsides later this month. We expect start-up to occur mid-2015.

Moving on to our LNG projects, we continue to make excellent progress at Gorgon which is now, through April, 80% complete. The final two gas turbine generators have been installed and additional progress has been made on the LNG tank, Jetty and other related infrastructure on the island. All major 2014 milestones are on track, and we expect plant start-up and first gas in mid-2015.

For Wheatstone, we are now at 33% complete. Progress continues to be made at the plant site, on the Wheatstone platform and with the offshore development drilling campaign. Wheatstone remains on track to start-up in late 2016.

Gorgon and Wheatstone are critical contributors to our future growth plans, and we are pleased with the steady progress being made on both of these projects. As in prior quarters we have posted updated photos of both projects on our investor website. I encourage you to take a look.

We also continue to make progress on our Shale and Tight resource development which nicely complement our large Major Capital Projects. We have an active drilling and development program in the Permian Basin, and we have drilled over 120 well so far this year.

We continue to focus on capital and execution efficiency as well as the identification of sweet spots throughout our extensive acreage position in both the Midland and Delaware sub-basins.

We are also making steady progress in the Vaca Muerta Shale in Argentina, progressing this year's development program. And we recently signed additional agreements for incremental exploration acreage in the play.

On slide 17 I'd also like to touch on additional progress made elsewhere. We reached final investment decision and received approval from the UK government to proceed with the development of the Alder Field in the Central North Sea. We achieved first production in the Chirag Oil Project in Azerbaijan and acquired new exploration acreage in Myanmar.

In the Downstream we achieved mechanical completion of our new base oil facility at our Pascagoula, Mississippi refinery. Once fully ramped up, this increases our capacity in premium base oils by over 70%, making Chevron the largest premium base oil producer in the world.

In addition, Chevron Phillips Chemical's 1-Hexene Project as well as Oronite's Singapore Expansion Project recently achieved mechanical completion. Lastly, CPChem started construction on its new Gulf Coast Petrochemicals Project, which capitalizes on advanced feedstocks sourced from shale gas in North America. This project is expected to start up in 2017.

That concludes our prepared remarks. I appreciate you listening in this morning and your interest in the Company. We are now ready to take some questions.

Please keep in mind that we do have a full queue, so try to limit yourself to one question and to one follow-up, if necessary. We will do our best to get all of your questions answered. Jonathan, I would ask that you open up the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, good morning. Pat, thanks for the comments on the impairment as it clearly affects a clean comparison of your quarterly Upstream profitability.

Maybe I missed it, I know your interim update identified $400 million to $500 million of Upstream impairments. In your reconciliation, I see $150 million, and I thought I heard you mention $265 million. Can you just talk me through those numbers once again, please?

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure. The interim update did talk about a total of $400 million to $500 million in additional negative charges and that included foreign exchange and impairments, but we did reference strongly in that total the mining component.

That mining component is $265 million. And then in the appendix slide, you will see it is also $150 million worth of Upstream-related impairments in the International segment.

EVAN CALIO: I see, I got you. I got you on the total. Thanks.

And I guess my second question just on net debt increased, is it $3.2 billion in the quarter, small working capital increase. I know you intend to bridge to 2015 and beyond when productive capital begins to drop and cash flow from new projects commences, yet where do you see the debt limit? Is it at AA level at the high 20s, mid-20s, and then what type of commodity price cushion do you forecast in crossing that bridge and maintaining current shareholder distributions?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, Evan, I think you referenced several questions there, and you had a couple of really important words in there. One, you talked about bridging. That is an important concept for us.

While our free cash flow is essentially neutral in this particular quarter and you are right, the net debt did increase and that related to distributions to shareholders.

We are very comfortable with that pattern. It's a pattern that we've had for the last few quarters. It's a pattern that we can see continuing on here in 2014. When we get into 2015 and you begin to see the volumes and the cash flows pick up, we get into a different state.

We do want to maintain the AA credit rating. We have a lot of room between where our debt level is today at 13% and what would be necessary to even call that into jeopardy.

And by a lot, I mean several billion dollars worth of additional borrowing capacity. We do test our own plan against a low price environment and I can tell you that against the low price environment, even continuing on with the capital program that we have, we are very comfortable with the distributions that we are making even in a low price environment and maintaining the AA.

EVAN CALIO: Can you share what low price means?

PAT YARRINGTON: No, I don't want to go that far. We do look at the overall capital position and financial position of the firm.

We tested against low prices and we feel comfortable, Evan, with where we are. The other thing I would mention is that we do have, you will recall from the March presentation, we are anticipating asset sale proceeds of $10 billion over the next three years.

EVAN CALIO: That's right, right, right. I appreciate it. Thanks for taking my question.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, good morning and thanks for the extra disclosures in the presentation. Just a question on cash flow. I think after working capital you said $8 billion.

It's been running higher than that. Volume is flattish in the macro environment and you've shouted out under-lifts and some extra tax. But were there any other things that may have contributed to a slightly lower cash flow this quarter?

PAT YARRINGTON: Nothing of any substantial nature. It was not -- with the under lifting circumstance, it was not a particularly strong US Downstream quarter. So I think there are some operational factors that really lead to the $8 billion of cash generation, $8.4 billion.

ED WESTLAKE: Good, thanks very much. And then Gorgon you've said 80% complete. You've obviously just had the Analyst Day and said mid-2015. Other people, perhaps even partners are saying perhaps more later in the year, sort of a 2016. I don't want to get into a debate, he said she said, but what is the critical path that you think in terms of getting Gorgon up mid-2015, what are the risks that you are now worried about as you get further into the final stages here?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think we have 20 of the 21 critical process modules for Train 1 and the infrastructure, the common facilities infrastructure, on the island. The remaining train is due shortly, will arrive shortly.

So it really becomes a process of the hookup and commissioning. And I think that is -- we have just come through kind of a weather period, so we are moving into good weather.

And so I think weather continues to be a risk. And I think labor productivity continues to be a risk. But both of those are aspects of this project that we have been managing now for four and a half, five years.

And so those are clearly on everybody's mind, Ed, in terms of managing through this. And I want to reiterate that the project is on track. We are aiming for and targeting that mid-2015 start-up.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Hi, good morning Jeff and Pat. If I could kind of a big one and a small one.

The big one is, you have an interesting number, Pat, which is unproductive capital. Could you update us on that number and talk a little bit about how you calculate the number so that we can perhaps use it to compare with other companies?

And the follow-up is on the Vaca Muerta, and I will ask you that in due course. Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, basically we just look at, it really is just assets under construction. Definitionally, its assets in our work-in-progress account as a percentage of our total capital employed.

And the information that we provided back in March suggested that we were at a pretty high level because, predominantly because of the LNG projects that we have underway as well as with a couple of Gulf of Mexico Deepwater projects. And we indicated we saw that stepping down significantly over the next three-year period of time. And I also said verbally that we saw a pretty important stair step going from 2013 to 2014 then again to 2015 and 2016.

We didn't give actual numbers, I don't really want to do that. But that pattern that was on our slide back in March is still one that we hold to. So as you see these projects come online they move out of that WIP account, that work-in-progress account, into a producing asset account.

PAUL SANKEY: My recollection was that there was an actual number of unproductive capital. And I guess you could update us on capital employed, or at least the last available number?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, year-end capital employed was about $171 billion. So the information that we gave on the slide was a three-year average there.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, and what was the unproductive number?

JEFF GUSTAVSON: So, Paul, the three-year average, 2011 to 2013, was in the low 40% range moving down to the mid-30% for 2014 to 2016, but that's the average 2014 through 2016. As Pat said, it steps down in each of those years. Our historic average here is maybe the high 20%s.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, that's right, it was percentages, I recall now.

PAT YARRINGTON: It was percentages. And we use the averages, and I think it's fair to say that 2011 was the lowest of the three years. 2012 was the middle of the three years and 2013 was the highest of the three years. But the three-year average there was that low 40%. And then what we are saying is 2014, 2015 and 2016 will reverse that pattern.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes. Understood. Okay, that's helpful on that calculation.

And then Vaca Muerta, can you do a little bit more to strip out Argentina? You've kind of bundled it with Permian and to the extent to which that's acquisition growth as opposed to organic growth? Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, so I think that in terms of the Vaca Muerta play itself, we are continuing to make progress there. Our plan is to drill about 140 wells this year. We've got about 17, 18, or 19 rigs drilling at this particular point in time, and production there on a gross basis is about 17,000 barrels a day.

We are encouraged by the well results both on cost and productivity. But it is still early days there, there is still a long way to go but we are encouraged so far.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, I think I'll take it offline on the breakout in terms of volumes year over year. It's just I was saying that on the variance you bundled Vaca with Permian.

PAT YARRINGTON: I see, I misunderstood the question.

PAUL SANKEY: No, thanks for the answer, absolutely that was just the follow-up, really.

JEFF GUSTAVSON: So, year over year, Paul, we hadn't booked production in the first quarter of last year. We started booking production in the fourth quarter.

So there is a contribution fourth quarter to first quarter. But over quarters, it is acquisition related but if you want to talk more specifically about it just talk to me offline.

PAUL SANKEY: Sure, thanks, Jeff. Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, good morning Jeff and Pat. I've also got one big and one small one, if that's okay. On the impairments part, is that the reason for the high DD&A number, and if so can you give us an idea what the run rate should be?

PAT YARRINGTON: It certainly is a contributor to the high DD&A rate. Absolutely that's a factor.

In terms of general DD&A, I think that it's fair to say that overall corporate DD&A is going to move up. Our expectation would be that it would move up in 2014 relative to 2013 and we see Upstream DD&A per barrel rising for the next couple of years but then flattening out over time. The pattern on both the absolute and the per barrel is something that you would absolutely expect because of recent investments and our future investments.

It obviously is also impacted by reserve-add timing and the mix of our projects, etc. Our PPC, our pre-productive capital, as we talked about is going to come down, but I think the thing you've got to keep in mind here too is that for this investment that is evidencing itself and will evidence itself in our DD&A rate, we are giving the investment audience the largest growth rate of the peer group, a 20% growth rate in volumes between now and 2017. So significant investment generating significant volume growth.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right, thanks Pat I will take the specifics in DD&A offline with Jeff, if that's Okay. But my follow-up is really your last point because I think the growth in the cash margin trajectory is fairly well understood.

What certainly we have observed over the years is that really gets repaid by the market when it's accompanied by strong debt adjusted growth, if you like, so the balance sheet is not expanding at the same time. So I'm just kind of curious, when you look at your -- you say you're delivering the best 20% growth, how do you think about the trade-off that's a $10 billion annual burn rate on the balance sheet? I'll leave it there, thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: I guess I think that if you've got the project queue, a strong project queue, and you have got a balance sheet that allows you to invest for that, and we do have a balance sheet, in fact you could really argue that for years we were under-levered relative to what might be optimal. So if you've got the strong project queue and if you've got the balance sheet to support it and the projects are value accreting for the organization, for the firm, then I think that's exactly the kind of investment profile you ought to be undertaking.

DOUG LEGGATE: I appreciate your answers. Thanks, Pat.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey guys, good morning. Pat, don't know whether you want to answer this.

I think a lot of people are asking that for CPC, your joint venture, strategically is there any particular reason you need to own it so that you can have synergy with your other operations? If not, if you look at it as a financial investment does it make sense for you to own a minority interest and put it up as a publicly traded entity together with your partner, Phillips 66 and put it into the market so that you can recognize a much higher value given right now they are trading at higher multiples than say both your partner and yourself?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, so I understand the question there. And I will just start back with when we put the two companies together we had two middling performing chemical companies. We put them together, and it's been a wonderful marriage.

The partners are very much aligned on how to run this business, where to extract value from this business. And so it's a joint venture that has worked very well and has been very successful, so we are very pleased.

There is no catalyst that's out there necessarily to say that we need to be doing something different. It is, a part of the portfolio that has growth opportunities available to it. And we appreciate that with this change in the US gas production and advantaged feedstock opportunities here.

I think CPChem calls on the technical expertise of both of its parent companies, and we are able to and happy to assist them in that capacity. We think it fits nicely in our portfolio. The chemical business is highly, highly cyclical, more so than our portfolio. And so we are able to withstand the adjustments that are there that we think that's an advantage as well.

So we don't really see that there is a huge catalyst for us to do something different, and it is not always clear that the PE multiple in these petrochemical commodity companies are always trading at multiples better than ours.

So we like the joint venture. We think it's well-run. We are happy to assist in its growth projects providing expertise and technical capability where we can. We are very satisfied with it, and I dare to say that our joint venture partner would be feeling much the same.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Very good. Second question, can you give us a quick update whether Angola LNG right now is running at 50% capacity?

And also in the Permian with the 25 rigs, do you have a number that how many of them is currently running in the unconventional? And what would that be in the pad drilling already? Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, let me start with Angola and then we might need to help me again on the second question. So, on Angola we did have recently a technical issue pop up. We had a piping failure, which did result in an unplanned interruption to production.

There was no fire. There were no injuries. It was a pretty localized damage. It was associated with the flare system. We are doing a root cause investigation and in fact that root cause analysis should be completed within a few days here, is my understanding.

So the plant is currently shut down and we will need to take a look at that root cause analysis to understand what the go-forward operating plan looks like. That failure occurred sort of mid-April, early April and it therefore was not an impact in the first-quarter results.

PAUL CHENG: Permian, the 25 rigs, how many of them is in unconventional drilling and of which how many of them is in the pad drilling already?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, so all of the 25 rigs in the Permian right now are in the unconventional. We have only one rig drilling in the conventional. And I think you're asking about pad drilling?

PAUL CHENG: That's correct.

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't have information on that, that specific at this point, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Bank of Montreal.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, BANK OF MONTREAL: Yes, hi guys, thanks very much. Pat, sorry about this, but can I get back to the impairments and asset divestments you put in the reconciliation at the back?

I didn't understand some of the stuff you were talking about earlier. You've got $150 million of E&P impairments it looks like in the first quarter and also $100 million gain on dispositions.

I know you've also got this mining write-down as well. Can you just put those together for me again?

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure. So let's start with the biggest element, which is the mining element. We have a molybdenum mine in New Mexico and the impairment charges that we talked about there and other related charges that I talked to at the very beginning, the $265 million, relates to that. That asset from a segmented reporting basis is in our Other segment.

In Upstream, we noted $150 million of impairment. It's in the International sector for us. So these are assets where we feel there's better opportunity in other portfolios, basically.

And then the third element that was noted there was an asset sale gain. This was in our quote unquote Midstream sector, it's really pipeline related and that showed up in the Downstream external segment.

IAIN REID: Okay, thanks very much. And the second thing was is it possible to update us on when we are likely to see the Tengiz Future Growth FID?

PAT YARRINGTON: Our target is to have that towards the end of the year. I don't really have any additional information at this point. We were successful in getting the MOU assigned back in the latter part of last year, which really is the stage-setting document to get all the partners aligned on the go-forward process. And so we are in the process now of going through and working the cost estimates, etc., etc.

All I can say is towards the end of this year.

IAIN REID: And we should expect an overall CapEx for this -- gross CapEx for this project along the lines of some of your major things you're doing in Australia, is that correct? Or is that kind of ballpark, the right sort of number?

PAT YARRINGTON: I'm sorry, TCO is Kazakhstan -- and I guess one last thing there on TCO. FID is not critical path. What was the question on Australia? I didn't quite understand.

IAIN REID: Sorry, I just wanted to get an overall ballpark idea of what the overall cost estimate of the future growth project is going to be. Is it in the same ballpark as what you are doing in Australia?

PAT YARRINGTON: I see, Iain. We don't have an update -- we don't have a cost estimate. We won't have a cost estimate until we go to FID, so that will be later and attached to the FID timing.

IAIN REID: All right, thanks, Pat.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, good morning. First question, on Jack/St. Malo you had said that it was moored on location. I just want to understand a little bit; how much sort of wiggle room do you guys have from now until the start-up to get that project going? If it's an active hurricane season, have you built in that sort of weather into the start-up at the end of the year for that project?

PAT YARRINGTON: It's my understanding that when we are putting these facilities out in the Gulf of Mexico we do as much weatherproofing as we possibly can. Obviously when you are investing at the size of these facilities that is an important consideration. So clearly having it moored is an important step and so our expectation is that we would be able to handle any weather complications that might arise.

JEFF GUSTAVSON: I like to just add, Faisel, if there are hurricanes, you have to demobilize the folks that are working on it, that could slow things down a little bit but it's hard to estimate what is going to happen there.

FAISEL KHAN: I'm just trying to understand if you guys have incorporated that into your guidance of the start up?

PAT YARRINGTON: In a general sense, from a planning sense, we always do factor in Gulf of Mexico weather activities to a degree. But each year is a different degree, if you know what I mean? So there's obviously a baseload that we include in our plans, yes.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, that's fair. I understand.

And then just on the under-lift, you guys talked about the sequential quarter-over-quarter change of $235 million. Is that also fair to say that that is the absolute number too?

JEFF GUSTAVSON: So I will give you the absolute for the quarter is about $100 million, about half of that. So the rest of that is swing between the two quarters, Faisel.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, All right Jeff, thanks I appreciate the detail.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thanks for taking my question. You are obviously talking a lot more proactively about the Permian.

Presumably you'd like to get more value for that asset. Have you considered any kind of financial engineering solution that might unlock that value more so than simply as one piece of your US portfolio?

PAT YARRINGTON: We think we actually, Pavel, are sitting in the catbird seat in terms of the acreage position that we've got, the long-standing acreage position we've got, the royalty advantage that we have there. We have done joint ventures of a kind with for example, Cimarex, where we have partnered with similarly-situated partners.

And those kinds of things you can see us continuing to do on a go-forward basis if you get commonality of infrastructure and location and you can get efficiencies of drilling where you're fracking can really go from our property to their property. So we will continue to look for those opportunities for synergies.

We've got a very active program scheduled for this year, over 500 wells and 25 rigs. We've done 120 drillings so far.

So the activity level is at or perhaps even a little bit better than planned at this point. So we will continue to look for opportunities like that, but we are proceeding ahead on our own as well.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, and just quickly can I get an update on the exploration program in Liberia. I haven't heard about that in a while.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, we are not in a position to say anything more at this point.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, fair enough. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Guy Baber, Simmons & Company.

GUY BABER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY INTERNATIONAL: Thank you all for taking my questions. My first one was on the 2014 production guidance but understanding it is still very early in the year, just wanted to get a sense of how confident you guys are in the guidance right now just considering some of the weather influences you've battled in 1Q, the unplanned downtime at Angola LNG and then 2Q and 3Q typically being heavier maintenance quarters. Just wanted to better understand how you guys are feeling about that internally and any cushion you might have built into the guidance?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, that's a good question. I guess I would start by saying the year is young. We've only had four months, or three months in here and there have been some positives.

Jeff mentioned the figure about the Base business decline being at the 3%, or a little bit less than 3% level. So that's a very good positive.

One thing we haven't mentioned that's of a positive nature is at Frade. We now have 10 producing wells on, and we continue to make progress to bring on additional wells there. We've talked about the Permian ramp-ups and the Vaca Muerta ramp-ups that are occurring. So those are all working in our favor.

Clearly weather has been a negative for us in the first quarter. On an absolute basis, we would estimate that was worth 20,000 barrels a day or so absolutely negative in the quarter.

I mentioned the ALNG operational issues that we have there. So you put those all together, you've got some pluses, you've got some minuses. And the back end of the year, we've got Tubular Bells and Jack/St. Malo, both of which are scheduled to come online so our production ramp-ups are kind are back-end loaded. Both of those projects are on track.

So the best I can say is, and I will go back and tell you we build in weather contingencies in our Gulf of Mexico plan in particular, for a baseload amount, I will just go back and say the year is young. We've got positives and negatives out there.

We feel that the guidance that we gave at 2,610 is the best guidance that we have at this particular point in time. And as we do every year on the second quarter, we will update you with how things look at that point in time.

GUY BABER: Okay, great. Thanks for that. That was very helpful.

Then my follow-up was on one of your three primary growths themes, the Deepwater. I'm more focused on your next generation of projects looking beyond the near-term start-ups that you have lined up as we start thinking about potential reserve additions and then longer-term growth potential.

But you all have a number of potential FIDs this year that you have an interest in, I think Stampede and then your Indonesia development at Bangka and then you are also reevaluating Rosebank. So understanding that every project is unique, I was just hoping you could provide some more commentary on just how conducive the overall environment right now is to pushing forward Deepwater FIDs, just in light of your view of the cost environment and the evolution of project economics? And what you might see as opportunity for cost savings just given what's generally appears to be a more disciplined approach to screening these projects for you all and with some of your peers?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, well I think I would say, as I step back and look at Deepwater I think for Chevron in the portfolio, you mentioned a number of projects, but I think the most strategic basin continues to be the US Gulf of Mexico. And we've got a number of wells drilling now, and we will have additional wells drilling over the next 12 to 18 months, a significant number of them, six wells in the next 12 to 18 months. So that continues to be an area of strategic focus.

And we think we are competitive there on facility structure as well as drilling costs, completion costs. So that's an important area for us.

If I look at IDD, IDD is a complex project, it's multiple fields. And right now we are in the position of waiting for government approvals. And then on Rosebank, we did, as the operator, put that into a recycle mode because the cost that had come through really didn't make it compete for capital within our portfolio.

So that's somewhat in a recycle mode. So I think the overall impression that you have about the industry stepping back and taking a look at the cost run up in some of these, for some of these resource plays relative to the value capture, I think some of that is being reassessed as you indicate. Rosebank is a good example of that.

GUY BABER: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Roger Read, Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. I guess to come back to the Permian a little bit. If I understood correctly, you are not, or have not to this point drilled any horizontal wells in the Midland Basin, was that accurate?

PAT YARRINGTON: We are looking to spud the first one later on this year.

ROGER READ: Okay, so thinking about how production from the horizontal wells has typically been a little more let's just say higher IP rates and leave it at that, we should think about the Shale and Tight production accelerating, call it Q4 or certainly into 2015, would that be consistent with how you are looking at things?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think it would be fair to say that if you go forward and you look at quarter after quarter after quarter improvement, we would be looking to see improvement kind of quarter after quarter. Our real focus has been on getting capital efficiency maximized and getting a strong execution efficiency as well.

So it's really been on optimizing the value creation. And so we have been spending time to understand where the best areas are and what the most efficient rig pad and overall development plan is.

Frankly, a lot of the other producers there have been allowing us to de-risk this play by the work that they have done. And that is in a sense advantageous to us.

And we think that we can get over time the same kind of synergies and efficiencies that the smaller operators have. And one of the slides that we have put out in the Security Analyst Meeting gave a good indication of what we see as year-on-year net production increases in the Permian Basin.

It is a pretty significant growth rate. We also talked to essentially a doubling of our rig count over the next several years from where it is currently.

ROGER READ: Right, well I guess we now have a couple of quarters here where you are breaking out Shale and Tight from everything else. So we can start to get a feel for what that quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year performance is, so just want to make sure I was understanding the way it should progress here.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right, and we are hopeful for a quarter-on-quarter improvement going forward.

ROGER READ: Good. Guess my follow-up question, the Angola LNG obviously going to be offline in terms of a volume contribution in the second quarter for some significant period of time. But if you think about, and I know sometimes you don't want to get you granular, but the impact on it from a cash flow standpoint, was this operation, given the troubles it has had so far, actually contributing much, or should we think about it as mostly a production impact but not a problem for cash flows as we look in the next couple of quarters?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think you will see, it will be more noticeable clearly in the production side than the cash flow side, clearly. And I don't have, as I mentioned, we need to have the root cause analysis done before we have an indication of when, what that repair and maintenance, repair activity will look like, how long that will take and then when we might get back to a producing mode.

ROGER READ: Okay, I will leave it at that. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude the question-and-answer session of today's program. I'd like to hand the program back to Pat Yarrington for any further remarks.

PAT YARRINGTON: All right, thank you, Jonathan. I guess we got through everybody's questions, so I appreciate your time and interest today. I especially want to thank all the analysts who on behalf of all the participants for the questions that they asked in this morning's session.

So, Jonathan, I will turn it back to you and thank everybody. Have a good day.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And thank you ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude Chevron's first-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.

You may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c184 : Joint Ventures | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140504ea52000v2
  


 HD
 Q4  2013  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,224 words
   PD
31 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's fourth-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.

   TD
(Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. John Watson. Please go ahead.

JOHN WATSON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jonathan, and welcome to everyone to Chevron's fourth-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, our Chief Financial Officer, and Jeff Gustavson who is our General Manager of Investor Relations. We will refer to slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the detailed cautionary statement on slide 2.

Turning to slide 3, I want to begin by highlighting some of our strategic accomplishments for the year. We had our lowest ever days away from work rate continuing our improvement over several years now. We have been the industry leader on this metric since 2010.

Our financial performance in 2013 was solid. Once competition results are fully analyzed we expect to once again post the highest Upstream cash and earnings margins per barrel compared to a broad set of peer competitors. Our strong cash flows and balance sheet allowed us to fund our capital program and capture new resource opportunities while maintaining competitive shareholder distributions.

In our Downstream business we started commercial operations of a 53,000 barrel per day vacuum gas oil FCC unit at the 50% owned Yeosu refinery in South Korea. We made significant progress on the construction of a 25,000 barrel per day premium base oil plant at the Pascagoula, Mississippi refinery here in the US.

We expect to reach mechanical completions toward the end of the first quarter and will then ramp up to full capacity during the second quarter. In addition, we've also advanced our Oronite expansion project in Singapore.

Our CPChem affiliate, our 50% owned chemicals joint venture, announced final investment decision on a $6 billion US Gulf Coast Petrochemical Project.

In our Upstream business we achieved startup and first shipment from Angola LNG. Production began at the Papa-Terra project in Brazil. We also startup North Rankin-2 in Australia which maintains production capacity at the Northwest shelf LNG project.

We made substantial progress on our major capital projects at the end of January. Gorgon is currently about 76% complete while Wheatstone is about 27% complete. Similar to prior quarters, we have posted a number of photos highlighting our construction projects on these two important facilities on our Chevron investor webpage located at Chevron.com.

We also continued construction activities for our projects in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Jack/St. Malo hull is now moored at its offshore location and is on schedule for startup later this year. Big Foot is expected to be towed to location in the third quarter, with expected startup next year.

We reached final investment decision for the Alder developments in the UK North Sea as well as for Moho Nord in the Republic of the Congo.

We had a very busy year from a resource capture standpoint successfully acquiring an interest in a discovered resource opportunity in Argentina to develop and explore the Vaca Muerta shale. And we also closed on our entry into the Kitimat LNG project in Western Canada where the resources will come from new positions in the Horn River and Liard basins.

We acquired additional shale and tight resource acreage in the Cooper basin in Australia and the Duvernay basin in Canada, the Permian basin in the US as well as in the Ukraine. We also grew our exploration portfolio by acquiring positions in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, Australia, Brazil, Morocco and in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.

Our one year reserve replacement was 85% bringing our three year replacement ratio to 123%. We're proud of our performance this past year. With that I'll turn it over to Pat who will take you through the financial results. Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, John. Slide 4 provides an overview of our financial performance. The company's fourth-quarter earnings were $4.9 billion or $2.57 per diluted share. For the year earnings were $21.4 billion, this equates to $11.09 per diluted share. Return on capital employed for the year was 13.5% and our debt ratio at year end was 12%.

2013 marked our 26th consecutive annual dividend increase with an 11% growth in the quarterly rate. This demonstrates our confidence in our future performance and is consistent with our priority of rewarding shareholders with sustained and strong dividend growth.

In the fourth quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares bringing the full-year share repurchase total to $5 billion. In the first quarter of 2014 we expect to repurchase the same amount.

Finally, Chevron's 2013 total shareholder return was 19.2%. We continue to lead our peer group on total shareholder returns for the three-year, five-year and 10-year period.

Turning to slide 5, cash generated from operations was $10.5 billion during the fourth quarter. This was the strongest cash generation quarter of the year. For the full year cash from operations totaled $35 billion reflecting the continued cash generating strength of our portfolio.

Cash capital expenditures were $11.6 billion during the quarter and $38 billion for the full year. We had a very successful year in our resource acquisition efforts as John just mentioned. At year end our cash balances totaled $16.5 billion giving us a net debt position of $4 billion. The company continues to move towards a more traditional capital structure.

Turning to slide 6, I'll compare results for the fourth quarter 2013 with the third quarter 2013. As a reminder, our earnings release compares fourth quarter 2013 with the same quarter a year ago. Fourth-quarter earnings were $4.9 billion; $20 million lower than the third-quarter results.

Upstream earnings were down $240 million reflecting lower liquids realization and higher exploration and operating expenses. Partially offsetting were favorable foreign exchange movements of $490 million.

Downstream results edged up $10 million between quarters. Higher margins and favorable inventory affects were mostly offset by the absence of gains on asset transactions and higher operating expenses. The variance in the Other bar largely reflects a favorable swing in corporate tax items during the quarter.

On slide 7, our US Upstream earnings for the fourth quarter were $223 million lower than third-quarter's results. Lower realizations decreased earnings by $165 million, consistent with the decline in US crude oil price indicators.

Lower production volumes reduced earnings by $35 million mainly due to planned maintenance activity in the Gulf of Mexico and cold weather disruptions in the Mid-Continent region. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including higher operating expenses and unfavorable tax impacts partially offset by lower exploration and DD&A expenses.

Turning to slide 8, International Upstream results were just $17 million lower than last quarter's results. Realizations decreased earnings by $60 million consistent with the decline in Brent prices between quarters.

Higher exploration expenses, mainly driven by the write off of an exploration well offshore Canada, and higher geological and geophysical expenses across multiple areas, decreased earnings by $190 million. A combination of higher operating expenses and DD&A lowered earnings $150 million between periods.

The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including the absence of asset sale gains and favorable tax affects from the prior quarter. A favorable swing in foreign currency effects increased earnings by $490 million. The fourth quarter had a gain of about $300 million compared to a loss of about $190 million in the third quarter.

Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide network equivalent production. Production declined 9,000 barrels a day between quarters. Our shale and tight assets contributed 7,000 barrels a day mainly from new production in the Marcellus region in the US and Vaca Muerta in Argentina.

External constraints lowered fourth quarter production by 12,000 barrels a day reflecting lower demand in Thailand and in Bangladesh as well as weather-related disruptions in the US. The base business and Other bar include the impact of normal field declines which are partially offset by higher production from Agbami in Nigeria.

Slide 10 compares full-year 2013 net oil equivalent production to that of 2012. Production declined by 13,000 barrels per day in 2013. Production averaged 2.6 million barrels per day for the year, 98% of our original guidance. This was driven primarily by the slower ramp up at Angola LNG, more expensive turnaround activities and lower gas demand than anticipated in several countries.

Base business declines and asset sales reduced production by 49,000 barrels per day between years. Our base business operations delivered strong performance for 2013. Our base decline rate was lower than our target of 4% providing significant barrels and value.

Growing volumes from our shale and tight resources in the Permian and in the Marcellus regions in the US contributed 25,000 barrels per day. Our shale and tight production grew more than 15% in 2013.

Incremental production from our major capital projects contributed 11,000 barrels per day driven by the Angola LNG startup, first oil from Papa-Terra in Brazil and the ramp up of production at the Usan field in Nigeria.

Turning now to slide 11, US Downstream results were up $16 million between periods. Stronger margins increased earnings by $95 million mainly due to lower crude costs. West Coast refining margins also benefited from the completion of planned maintenance activity in the third quarter at our El Segundo, California refinery.

Gains on asset sales contributed about $90 million less in the fourth quarter than the third quarter. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items of smaller impact.

On slide 12, International Downstream earnings were nearly flat between quarters. Margins improved earnings by $20 million. Higher refining margins in Canada on lower crude cost and improved marketing margins in Australia, were partially offset by lower refining margins in Asia, where we have seen weaker demand and ample supply.

Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $60 million principally from maintenance, repairs and transportation. The Other bar includes a number of unrelated items including favorable year-end LIFO impacts, partially offset by lower trading results and an unfavorable swing in foreign exchange impacts.

Slide 13 covers All Other. Fourth-quarter net charges were $312 million compared to $522 million in the third quarter, a decrease of $210 million between periods. A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $162 million benefit to earnings while corporate costs were $48 million lower this quarter.

For the full year this segment had net charges of $1.6 billion putting us in the lower end of our $400 million to $500 million guidance range per quarter. We believe this quarterly guidance range for the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.

With that, I'm going to turn it back over to John for a few comments on 2014. John.

JOHN WATSON: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 14, in December you'll recall we announced a $39.8 billion capital program for 2014, $2 billion lower than 2013. We expect 2013 to be a relative peak spending year and 2014 to represent the peak year for LNG spend as our two Australian LNG projects move closer to production.

This program also supports our large Deepwater Gulf of Mexico developments as well as ongoing development and ramp-up activities in the Permian basin in the US. We're also investing in longer-term projects in Kazakhstan, Canada and West Africa which will drive profitable growth for many years.

Importantly, planned spending is directed towards our profitable base business assets throughout the world as well. This includes significant activity across several producing regions in North America as well as in Thailand and Indonesia amongst others.

Our Downstream investments for 2014 are geared toward enhancing reliability and energy efficiency, feedstock flexibility and the production of cleaner transportation fuels. We are also funding major capital projects related to our Chemicals business.

Our Oronite expansion project in Singapore is planned to start up in 2014. And we'll begin ramping up construction activities on the US Gulf Coast Petrochemicals Project which recently reached FID and is planned to start up in 2017.

We have an attractive portfolio of investment opportunities which we'll continue to fund in a disciplined fashion to grow enterprise value and fund shareholder distributions.

On slide 15 our net production outlook for 2014 is 2.61 million barrels oil equivalent per day based on an average Brent price of $109 per barrel which was the same average price as 2013. This outlook does not assume OPEC curtailments, material and security or other market impacts.

Our full-year estimate for 2014 includes modest production ramp ups at Angola LNG, Papa-Terra and in the Permian basin. These are expected to be partially offset by declines from our base producing assets where we continue to assume an average decline rate of approximately 4%.

Our focus is on managing the decline rate related to our base business, which is performing very well, and on executing with excellence those elements which are expected to add material production volumes in the years ahead.

Our long-term production growth outlook is compelling, profitable and will add value. It is driven by five large projects -- Angola LNG, Jack/St. Malo, Big Foot, Gorgon and Wheatstone -- which in total will add over 500,000 barrels per day of net new production to Chevron at full capacity.

In 2015 will see the start up of Gorgon and Big Foot and additional ramp-up of Jack/St. Malo. We look forward to providing more details on our key projects and production outlook at our upcoming security analyst meeting.

Thank you. That concludes our prepared remarks. I appreciate you listening in this morning and your interest in the company. We are ready to take some questions. Keep in mind that we do have a full queue, so please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up if necessary. We will do our best to get all of your questions answered. Jonathan, please open the line for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Doug Terreson, ISI Group.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: My question is about capital discipline and specifically the decline in returns on capital to around 14%, which I think places that result at its lowest level in many years. And on this point, John, you talked about the importance of value creation, and you always do actually, but also making hard choices in capital allocation when you were in New York recently.

And so while I recognize that you have to complete investment in these megaprojects, I wanted to see what the Company is doing to address this issue from a corporate planning perspective, or whatever you deem relevant, to ensure that this value creation process is optimized.

JOHN WATSON: Sure, good question, Doug. Certainly we did announce a capital program, as I said, of $39.8 billion, it is a significant program and it largely reflects the good queue that we have. Doug, when I reflect on our Company and our capital discipline, you know we have a wide lead in profit per barrel, some $5 a barrel not just over the majors but over independents and others.

So we have had discipline over the years and the projects that we have in the queue we think will also add to earnings going forward. Now it is true that the cycle time for some of the projects that I mentioned, those big five that I mentioned, is long. And so there is capital that is not yet on production in the queue.

Notwithstanding that we actually expect our Upstream business to have the second highest return on capital employed this year despite that high level of pre-productive capital. So I think we've got good discipline on these projects, we have got a good record of doing it.

Now inside the Company we are cognizant that there has been a significant increase in the cost of goods and services across the industry. Since the middle of last decade costs have more than doubled and there are some hotspots around the world. So we are looking very closely at the projects that are in our portfolio.

Naturally we are going to continue with the projects that are under construction. But you've seen a couple of areas where we have made some choices. The Rosebank project in the North Sea, we think that is a good project, a good resource, but costs came in just higher than what we felt were appropriate. So we are taking a hard look at that project, reviewing it, seeing if we can make the economics more attractive.

The Vietnam gas project, we have worked -- we and frankly Unocal before us worked for more than a decade to try to make that project a success. Haven't been able to do that just yet. So I think that we are really doing what we can.

I'd tell you also and the US we have scaled back our spending on gas, as you might expect. So the volume that you will see from gas in the US will be less than we might have planned a few years ago. The only area where we are spending on gas in any appreciable amount is in the Marcellus where we have a carry that enables us to continue to spend.

So all of those things plus outreach that our employees are making with vendors and contractors and frankly just belt-tightening in general, which is a big focus for us right now and will be a message that I will be sending in my worldwide conference call with employees in a couple of weeks, are the kinds of things that we are working on.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, those are all great points. And so let me just ask one more. So have you guys quantified what your level of pre-productive capital is, however you guys define it, and how that compares to normal today, John?

JOHN WATSON: We do. And I will make you a promise that Pat Yarrington will show you a fair amount of information on that when we come back in March. But, Doug, it is at a high level right now.

DOUG TERRESON: Sure. Okay, great, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: If I could take one and my follow-up please. Your production outlook (technical difficulty).

JOHN WATSON: I can't hear you, Doug.

PAT YARRINGTON: Doug, you have cut out.

DOUG LEGGATE: Hi, can you hear me now?

JOHN WATSON: If you speak up.

DOUG LEGGATE: Yes, I will try and speak up, sorry. So, John, your production trajectory for 2014 I think has taken some folks by surprise in terms of the fact that it is basically flat year over year. Has something slipped or changed there or are Street expectations too -- just wrong? Or can you basically give us an idea when you expect the inflection point in production? And I've got a follow-up, please.

JOHN WATSON: Sure. As I indicated, our production guidance for 2014 is 2.61 million barrels. And really a couple of things to talk about. One, our base business has been performing very well. So we are continuing to invest in the base and frankly we have seen some declines that are less than we would expect. But we do use our standard 4% decline estimate for the base business, the underlying business for 2014.

Beyond that it's a function of ramp ups that we have on major capital projects. And there are really a couple that fall into that category. One is Angola LNG and the other is Papa-Terra in Brazil that Petrobras operates.

We've got a couple of wells in Papa-Terra but it's -- the ramp up takes place, it's really a two part project that will take place over the course of this year and we take operator guidance in setting that estimate.

Angola LNG ramp up is less than we would have expected a couple years ago. And this might be a good time for me to talk about that project. Our share of production from Angola LNG is 60,000 barrels a day net at full capacity. We have had about five cargoes last year; I think we have had a couple that we have lifted this year. But we've been working on some technical issues on the front end of the plant with the dehydration unit.

Remember this is an associated gas project, meaning there is variable feed coming from different facilities. We have had some technical issues on the front end of that plant. And so, our expectation is it will not ramp up to full capacity this year, it will likely be more like 30,000 barrels a day if we run it about half capacity this year with a full fix in the first part of 2015 and then ramp up to full capacity after that.

So that is probably one of the factors that might be influencing the estimates that are out there. Beyond that we have got Jack/St. Malo, which we are very pleased with, which will be starting up late in the year. Obviously you only get a partial year's production from a later in the year start up, but that will start up nicely.

So I think it is more likely that the inflection point will come next year than this year. I don't think that is inconsistent with the guidance that we gave, if you go back to 2010, in the sense that we said we would grow roughly 1% between 2010 and 2014 and then 4% to 5% a year thereafter ramping up to our larger targets. But understanding the performance of ALNG has impacted 2014 to be sure.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks for the answer, John. My follow-up very quickly to Pat is, a move to a normal balance sheet structure, Pat, it looks to us that your cash burn is about $10 billion a year. Is it realistic that you add $30 billion by the -- to your balance sheet by the time you hit your targets in 2017? And I will leave it there. Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. Doug, that will all be a function really of what realizations are, what is happening from the crude market standpoint fundamentally. But if you assume no significant change from where we are today from a realization standpoint, and acknowledge what the production growth will look like and what cash from operations could look like, we would expect to add additional borrowings to our balance sheet of reasonable size over the next couple of years.

So we are starting with a very low leverage rate, 12% right now, and there is a lot of capacity that we can utilize to not only fund the business activity, reinvest in the business, but also continue on with strong shareholder distributions.

JOHN WATSON: Let me offer a couple other comments if I could -- if I could on that one. You know our cash C&E this last year in 2013 was about $39 billion. That included some acquisitions. We expect fewer this year and the cash spend is about $35 billion this year. In addition, asset sales were relatively low last year.

We expect modestly higher asset sales going forward. We're doing some rationalizing in the Midstream business, part of the ordinary course of business, and we have a few things we're looking at in the Upstream portfolio.

Remember most of the cash drain you are referring to is planned, orderly to restore our balance sheet back to a more leveraged structure and is largely a function of share repurchases that we are putting in place. Our intention as we get to at least start ramping up production of course as to get to a point where we not only cover C&E but also cover the dividend.

Our policy on dividend has been to grow that dividend commensurate with the ongoing pattern of earnings and cash flow over the long-term. So we are in this period where we have relatively high spend, we're generating good cash, but we expect cash generation to increase and, as we go forward, we expect the cash consumption to attenuate as we roll into higher levels of production.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks, folks, I appreciate the answers.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just coming more I guess back to the US. I mean your CapEx in the Upstream and your outlook is sort of relatively flat. I mean I appreciate there are some really big projects in the Gulf of Mexico. But you have this emerging shale position not just in the US, also obviously up in Canada. Maybe talk about why you are not getting after that more aggressively? I actually saw some really good well results from you guys down in the Permian this morning.

JOHN WATSON: You want us to spend more, Ed?

ED WESTLAKE: In that area potentially. But what stops you, or --?

JOHN WATSON: Well, a couple thoughts. I don't know whether you -- we have got a couple of different shale plays going on in Canada, one is in the Duvernay which is liquids oriented and we have drilled -- I think we are on our 13th well up there and have had some good success. And we are looking to develop and develop that at a good pace.

Our approach to the shales is to make sure we understand what we have got and to play in an orderly fashion so that we can keep costs in line commensurate with the production that we can generate. So I do agree with you, we have had some good results from those wells.

The second of course is the Horn River and Liard Basin which is gas to support the Kitimat project, which there will be additional drilling in the Liard this year to delineate those holdings. And of course that production would be associated with -- over time with an LNG project at Kitimat.

ED WESTLAKE: And I was also referring to the Permian obviously where you have got a huge acreage position. It just feels that if that was in the hands of an independent they would be gung ho after it. Whereas it feels that, perhaps due to corporate CapEx constraints, you guys or maybe delineation are going a little bit slower.

JOHN WATSON: Well, I know that is what the independents tell you. What I'll tell you is we work very hard to put together a really sustainable and capital efficient plan over time. Having said that, we drilled some 460 gross wells in 2013 which was more than we had planned.

We have got 26 rigs working in the basins there; about half of those actually are non-op rigs as well as our own rigs. And I think you will see that we are ramping up activity pretty nicely. In March George will show you some charts that will give you a better feel for that. But I think you will see a nice ramp up both in the number of rigs and in production that will come from that area.

Remember, one of the things -- we do try to be efficient with our capital, we are focused on making good returns. And so, we do want to be sure that we can do it in a low-cost fashion and do it in a way that will generate the kind of financial results overall that will keep us leading.

I mentioned earlier that we lead in earnings per barrel relative to the majors, but we also have a big lead in return on capital and return per barrel relative to a lot of the independents as well. So we may not go as fast as some of the independents, but I think it is the right way for us to move forward.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: John and Pat, maybe I have two questions, both of them is somewhat higher level. One is from a capital allocation standpoint. Obviously the last several years the Company has been going after a lot of the legacy long-term megaprojects, which is great once that they complete.

But from a portfolio management standpoint is there a point that you want to say maybe balance the portfolio a little bit between whether from a production standpoint or a capital standpoint between the megaprojects which obviously have a higher risk in terms of underlying execution and also somewhat binary in nature comparing to a more steady maybe shorter-term projects? That is the first question.

JOHN WATSON: Okay. Well, certainly we do quite a bit of work, Paul, on portfolio management to do just as you described. In fact, we try to balance the portfolio in many ways, but certainly one is the balance between the investments in long-term projects and short-term money.

We consciously took on some projects that we felt were opportunistic and ready to go with Gorgon, Wheatstone, Jack/St. Malo and Big Foot. And so, we knew that we had a heavy period of spend for those projects. But at the same time we have really maintained a very strong base business spend program, about 30% of our spend goes into smaller capital projects.

And you make a good point because I just -- for example, just happened to review our performance on small capital projects within the last couple of weeks and the returns are quite good. These are typically incremental projects, incremental drilling projects to existing assets.

And so, we do maintain that spend. In fact, the discretionary spend that we have is in that area. And we have announced a strong capital program for 2014 and my alternative was largely to cut those base business spend. And we decided not to do that.

So we try to balance both those factors so that we get strong returns on capital over time and get good growth. And we have been able to do that. Despite all the capital that is in the queue, we still from the numbers that we have we think we will maintain our second position on return on capital employed.

PAUL CHENG: John, is there a ratio over the next five or 10 years that you want to have 50% of the capital on the legacy megaproject and 50% on the smaller and the base business? Or there is not even a ratio that you guys consider or look at?

JOHN WATSON: Well, we will have a higher -- I think we have advertised before that we are moving toward a higher percentage of legacy what we call legacy or very low decline projects. So that as we get toward the end of the decade we will be at about 60%.

So things like Gorgon, Wheatstone, Tengiz, Angola LNG and the like, even some of our low decline assets such as California heavy oil activity is very low decline. And we are moving to a higher level.

The plus side of that is as you get those online, the amount of spend that it takes to maintain them tends to be fairly low. So we are moving to a higher level of what you would call legacy spend projects and I think they will deliver a lot of cash and stability for years to come once we get them all on line.

PAUL CHENG: The second question is that over the last couple years that you have been borrowing -- or actually not since you have been borrowing money to fund a buyback, and as the balance sheet returns to more normal at what point, whether is a fixed financial ratio such as net debt to capital or interest (inaudible) ratio, the Company will start to reconsider the buyback whether or that you would continue to borrow money to fund it?

JOHN WATSON: I will let Pat talk a little bit about our philosophy on debt and the rating agencies and how much capacity we have got.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. And, Paul, we have said for a long time now that obviously from a cash distribution standpoint the priority is on dividend. Secondly, we invest in the business and cover up the strength of our balance sheet from a pension funding standpoint and that kind of thing for the third priority. And then finally it is share repurchases that become kind of the surplus use of cash.

And we have also said several times here now that we were in an unusual net cash position for several years now. We would be moving into a net debt position, we have now done that. As I look forward we still have a tremendous amount of borrowing capacity available to us.

We believe that these -- we are very confident in the future cash generation from these projects once they come online and so we can see our steady-state here from a shared distribution standpoint on share repurchases for a while. We also see intentions to continue to grow the dividend.

We have a lot of flexibility in our balance sheet and I don't think that there is a consideration, at least in terms of steady macro conditions, that would suggest we would be trimming our share repurchases at this time.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: John, on the CapEx, I know that the organic cash CapEx exceeded your guidance by about $2 billion. As you assess that 2014 CapEx budget what gives you confidence that you won't experience similar inflation? I mean is there anything different, any protections, conservatisms versus what happened as you -- versus how you assess 2014? And then I have a follow-up. Thanks.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, our number -- taking out the money for acquisitions that we had last year, the amount that we went over the budget I think was --.

PAT YARRINGTON: About 1 billion.

JOHN WATSON: -- lower than that. So -- and I don't know if we disclose the exact dollars of those acquisitions, but it is somewhat lower than that. I don't think we would be having the conversation about capital had we not had those larger -- those one-time acquisitions.

But candidly if we have a supplement to a project we are going to fund it in that year. In general we manage our budget pretty tightly and I have no reason to believe at this point that we will exceed the $39.8 billion that we put out there. We are sensitive to it, you are sensitive to it. So we will be watching it very closely.

EVAN CALIO: Similar -- and maybe this is something for the Analyst Day. As obviously organic CapEx, cash CapEx trend here is flat and you mentioned a peak LNG spend in 2014. There are a lot of your peers that are forecasting a peak CapEx. So do you see a similar overall trend based upon your current slate of projects?

And then maybe secondly -- this is the other side of the question -- is it -- it is unclear what the world looks like in two, three, five years let alone the opportunities in the asset market, M&A market, resource market, etc. I mean do you see any real ability to forecast a longer-term CapEx figure? And I will leave it at that.

JOHN WATSON: Well, it is a good question. One of the reasons -- and I've told you and others before -- one of the reasons we haven't put out long-term capital forecasts is because it is very hard to predict oil prices, foreign exchange, local content requirements, cost of goods and services.

What we have been fairly good at understanding is the competitive nature of our projects. So when we put out a long-term production forecast we have had a view that -- we know the world is going to need energy, we know that we have got projects that will compete because of the resource and general nature of the project.

And so we have been -- frankly we have stepped out quite a bit in putting out a seven-year production forecast. And I feel pretty good about that. It was harder to predict what the exact spend would be. And that is part of the reason I have been reticent to give a lot of guidance going out beyond two or three years.

I know directionally the level of our activity and we do balance that, but I don't know what the macro environment will bring fully. And once we get projects that are under construction we're obviously going to continue them. So I have a pretty good feel obviously for what spending will be this year. And I have a pretty good feel for what spend is going to be in 2015 and 2016.

And that is why we have given you this flattening comment where we are $40 billion this year and we will be in that same range give or take for the next couple years. Beyond that the macro conditions could dictate something different.

We do try to be opportunistic when it comes to bringing resources into the portfolio. Last year I think we brought in some terrific resources into our portfolio at a good price.

As you know, we supplemented our acreage in New Mexico in the Permian area, we brought in some good high-quality assets that were referenced earlier in the Duvernay, we think the Kitimat resource is a terrific one for the long-term, Argentina we think as far as we know it is the best shale outside of North America.

So we took the opportunity to bring those into the portfolio and we don't see as many opportunities in that space this year, for example, that is why I made the comment I did earlier about spend. But over time we are in depleting resource business and you do need to add to the portfolio.

We are careful how we do that. That is how we got to our leading position in earnings per barrel. And we will continue to be careful in how we do that going forward.

EVAN CALIO: Maybe I could slip in just one last one on the asset disposal side. I know you mentioned in a response or your comments the Midstream sale process monetization. I mean any update or any change in your thoughts there given you're growing unconventional base and a likely associated Midstream CapEx over time? Any change whether that would be an outright sale or potentially forming an MLP? And I will leave it at that.

JOHN WATSON: Yes. In fact I will say there is a little bit of a shift. Let me be clear, we are not in a shrink to grow mode, we are not resetting the base, we are not doing anything like that, that is not what we are doing. But just as we have done in the Downstream where we have pruned the portfolio. I think Mike and his team have sold some $8 billion in assets over the last six, seven years. And those have been done in a very nice paced way to get good value.

We are in the process right now of making some sales in our Midstream business, for example. You reference MLPs, our approach -- we are not fond of the MLP structure as a way for us to hold assets, but we can sell into MLPs and get that value.

And so we have been selling pipelines and we'll continue to do so for pipelines where they are not critical to our Upstream or Downstream business, in other words more merchant type lines. We are selling lines. You have probably seen some commentary in the press to do that, we think we can get good value there.

Similarly, we do have a lifecycle for asset sales in the Upstream. And so there are some sales that are possible there. Our approach is not to talk a lot about the specific assets for commercial reasons, but I would say you will see more asset sale activity over the next two or three years in the Upstream than you have seen over the last few years.

Certainly there has been a lot of chatter about some leases that we are selling in Nigeria, those we think we'll bring to a closure later this year and get good value for those. And I would say overall in the context of some of the big headline numbers others have said our sales will be modest. But we will have a little bit more in the area of asset sales going forward.

EVAN CALIO: Appreciate it. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: You mentioned the ongoing reduction in domestic gas drilling and yet ironically that is the one part of your domestic production that has actually been up for the last I guess three, four quarters. Why do you think there is this disparity where domestic gas is rising but oil and liquids have been in decline?

JOHN WATSON: Well, the area that we have been investing in in the US has been in the Marcellus and it is a function of the carry. So the volume increases that you are seeing, you will recall we acquired Atlas Energy and some other tack-ons and we came in with a $1.3 billion carry. Where as we go forward it we are funding a disproportionately low percentage of the cost for the revenue that we are getting.

That carry is now down to $500 million and our strategy has been to really build out the factory model, get our full costs in line so that as we end that carry three or four years from now that we will be in a good competitive position on a cost per MCF basis once we get through that carry.

In the meantime we can afford to do the drilling. We obviously wells that are drilled when you are funding 25% of the cost and getting 60% of the revenue, I think the ratio is pretty good.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Sure. Now a follow-up on Kitimat. I think you've said in the past your aim is to reach FID this year. Is that still the case? And what are the key question marks that would impede that from happening?

JOHN WATSON: Well, we are doing site clearance now. One of the things we have learned on big land-based projects is get your infrastructure in order and housing and things of that sort so that is what we are doing. We are pacing this project very carefully, as you would expect, and what we have said is that FID will be entirely a function of gas contracts and that allow us to develop the opportunity, and provide energy to Asian markets at a fair price.

And it is no secret that there is a lot in the media on that subject right now. We are actively working with gas customers today. My view hasn't changed since the view Joe Geagea described to you last year, which is LNG projects are expensive, whether they're in West Canada, West Africa or East Africa or the Gulf coast of the US or Australia. And we are going to need robust pricing in order to make those projects go.

And so there are some projects that may be build on existing facilities in the Gulf Coast of the US that are doing -- that have gone to FID and will add some capacity at maybe slightly lower costs.

But once you get to brownfields, whether it is Gulf Coast or elsewhere, I think we're going to need either oil linked pricing or pricing that very clearly will give us the kind of return we need. So I guess what I am saying is FID will be a function of gas contracts.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Are right, appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: John, you mentioned a little bit on the Downstream sales and restructuring. Just a question on that. Is that business currently sized right for Chevron. And do you see any other opportunity there to potentially reduce capital employed on the Downstream side?

JOHN WATSON: Well, our Downstream business if you look at the direction we have gone, we actually have done quite a bit of pruning over the last few years, we have basically gotten out of the disconnected marketing or marketing that's disconnected from our refining system. And then we did get out of a refinery in Europe that we think was very well-timed.

And so what that has left us with is a strong US business with good positions along the Gulf coast and through the West Coast of the US and then a strong business in Asia. We think -- we always take a look at the portfolio, but in general I think our Downstream portfolio is in pretty good shape.

I might have told you a few years ago that inland refineries or small refineries would be tough, but frankly those have been some of the most profitable with the one in Salt Lake and Burnaby, British Columbia. So I feel pretty good about the portfolio overall in the Downstream.

The capital that we are putting in the Downstream business is really geared toward the chemicals business now. We have got a base oil plant that is coming up in Pascagoula that will make us the largest top-tier base oil producer in the world.

We've got our share of the petrochemical complex that we're building with Phillips 66 through Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, that is a $6 billion project our share is $3 billion. We think that is going to be a terrific project. As far as we know we are ahead of other projects in the area.

We have got the permits and have gone to FID. Overall we think we can generate mid-teens kinds of returns in this business. And so we think it is a good one.

ALLEN GOOD: Yes, I guess on the chemicals, I mean you mentioned a project upcoming and certainly that is a very good portfolio there. But I guess relative to the size of Chevron total it's still relatively a small piece. Do you think the market is accurately crediting you for that business?

And if not, do you think there is way potentially to monetize that through, I don't know, Phillips 66 or spinning that off separately? Or is your plan really just to hold out for the long-term and continue to build that up?

JOHN WATSON: Our plan is to hold it. It is about 15% of our capital. We disclosed the segment information; I think you guys have sharp enough pencils to be able to figure out what it brings to us. But more importantly than that, there are some linkages in the business that I think are very important. I don't think splitting up the business makes you an independent.

We have some very significant linkages to the Downstream business. And I will give you just a couple just as a for instance. Southern California, our El Segundo refinery, we have got heavy crude going out of San Joaquin Valley, we have just augmented some facilities at the El Segundo refinery specifically so it can take more San Joaquin Valley crude. We think that is a good synergistic type of investment.

Over the years we've had high mercury crude in Asia and we have put in specific facilities to be able to capture value benefit associated with that. I think when you look in the middle of the country today, I think it makes all the sense in the world to be an integrated company.

You've had tremendous volatility in the relationship in crude pricing. And you either capture it in the refinery or you capture it on the Upstream side depending on how infrastructure moves. So -- and we are capturing that at Salt Lake. So I frankly think that the integration story for us is pretty straightforward.

ALLEN GOOD: Great, thanks for those comments.

OPERATOR: Roger Read, Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I guess a lot of the stuff has been hit. I just wanted to kind of follow up on I guess Q4 and the Upstream in the US and if that had any implications for how we should look forward? I understand on the production side as we modeled it the realization for prices looked okay. I know as I went through -- or as you went through the presentation it showed realizations down.

I was wondering, is that a cost issue realization, sort of a net realization as opposed to just a price realization? And if so what kind of occurred in the fourth quarter and is that a one-time issue or a recurring issue, any help you can provide there.

JEFF GUSTAVSON, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: So, Roger, I can help with that, this is Jeff. It is not a net realization, it is a price realization. And it was consistent with the markers you see in the market for the fourth quarter.

ROGER READ: Okay. So I mean more or less what occurred in the fourth quarter we should look at as being an issue going forward. I mean as crude prices move around that will change. But just the market conditions.

JEFF GUSTAVSON: That is exactly right.

ROGER READ: Okay. And then as we look forward into 2014, especially at the end of the year, say Jack/St. Malo starts up, you have got continued growth probably in California. Should we look at that as helping out the realization story in the US, North America?

JEFF GUSTAVSON: Again I guess it depends on your view of prices. So we are -- out of our US production we are about a third weighted to California prices, which obviously is separate from what is going on in the Mid-Continent. We are about a quarter weighted to Mid-Continent or WTI prices, and about a third weighted to the Gulf of Mexico.

So I mean that, as Jack/St. Malo comes on, as Big Foot comes on the weighting in the Gulf of Mexico may increase somewhat. There is not a lot of growth in the California business. And at the same time we have the ramp up in the Permian. So it really goes back to what your view of the different markers are in those three separate regions.

ROGER READ: Sure, okay, that is helpful. And then any additional update you can provide as you look at the Vaca Muerta kind of drilling plans 2014 and 2015? When would we potentially see anything on a production side -- I know you made the comment it is a great shale, just wondering when would we maybe see something tangible that we can start to fix on?

JOHN WATSON: Well, I think you will start to see it going forward from here, we are producing 16,000 barrels a day gross, that is the 100% number. And so, one of the reasons I made the comment about it being a good investment is there is lots of oil infrastructure there now. So it is right in the middle of an oil-producing area.

YPF is doing a nice job, we are sending in some technical and other people to support them, but we have got 15 rigs running, we think over time it will get up to 19. And so we are optimistic that we will see continued growth.

I will just say, we just recently closed the transaction so it is very early days at this point. But it's -- there is probably more to come but you should start to see benefits in production here before too long.

ROGER READ: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Peter Hutton, RBC Capital Markets.

PETER HUTTON, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Actually my first question is a follow up from the last one which is about the liquids realizations in the US. And you mentioned these are in line with the benchmarks. From what I can see when I follow the trend, that is right when you are looking against the third quarter, but the third quarter had the highest discount between your average realization and WTI since the 2008 peak.

So is it two quarters when we've had discounts of the order of something like $10 shortfall. And so I guess I'm asking the same question in a different way. Is that something we should also expect to see during the course of 2014 until you start to see more production out of the Gulf of Mexico from Jack/St. Malo? And then I had a follow-up which is actually my original question.

JOHN WATSON: I don't know if we have got anything fundamental for you. It may be right for Jeff to follow up with you off-line to see if there is something in the markers that we are not covering here. But there are some lags in pricing that take place in the US. But if you wouldn't mind, Peter, maybe we will follow up off line and see if we can get you the specifics.

PETER HUTTON: Be glad to. In the case can I just -- the question I was going to ask originally, which is on the reserve replacement rate and exploration. I think you mentioned 85% this year, which is down on the full year and one year is not a trend.

But were there any areas where you have been focusing and didn't come in in the way that you had expected? And realistically where the focus is for this year and can you give a figure of the budget for exploration spent in 2014? Please.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, actually the irony is this was a very good year for reserve replacement relative to what we had in our plan because you have -- we have based business type activity, infill drilling and the like, developments and additions, revisions off of existing fields. And we had a very good year in that area.

What we didn't have was a significant number of major capital projects that went to FID and that is why this number tends to be lumpy in any given year. So while on an ongoing basis it was less than replacing 100% of production, that is why we quote the three-year and five-year numbers which are 100% or higher. So I think that is -- I think that is really my thought for you on reserves.

Exploration this year is about $3 billion, $3.2 billion type of number this year. I will tell you one of the challenges we have had in the last couple of years is getting all of our high impact wells drilled. We have got a great queue, but we frankly in the Gulf of Mexico we have been drilling so many development wells that we have got a queue that is built up there. And so we are looking forward to -- I think we have got 14 or so high impact wells which we define as 100 million barrel or more prospects and we look forward to getting them drilled here over the next few years. But a little over $3 billion is the target for the year.

PAT YARRINGTON: I think we have time for one more question.

JOHN WATSON: One more question, Robert.

OPERATOR: Robert Kessler, Tudor, Pickering, Holt.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, TUDOR PICKERING HOLT: Thanks for fitting me in and I look forward to the Analyst Day where I am sure we will go through more detail. But in the meantime I wanted to ask you for kind of an update on your Australia LNG cost and exposure to exchange rate. We still see volatility there.

I know you are of course further through the spend on Gorgon at 76%, which would imply less exposure to the exchange rate on the surface. But I imagine more of the spend now is local labor which I am assuming is price and Australian dollars.

So just the latest sort of leverage to that exchange rate if you don't mind and then any rethinking of your plans not to I guess hedge foreign exchange going forward?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, interesting question. Maybe the comment I will make, we have had a roller coaster on foreign exchange in Australia, as you point out. When we went to final investment decision back in 2009 the exchange rate was roughly $0.86 and it ramped up as high as I think [105] or so. And that was part of the reason that we supplemented the project.

Our view at the time was not to hedge foreign-exchange because we felt there had been a pretty strong correlation between oil prices and their currency. And so, we felt that our overall portfolio was pretty well hedged. And I think that proved to be a pretty wise decision.

When we went to FID on Wheatstone, we did so and have assumed a parity exchange rate. So that is a $29 [billion] project when we assume parity. This year our spend on the two projects is roughly $10 billion and we estimate that 70% to 75% of that spend is in Australian dollars.

So with the Australian dollar tracking under $0.90 now that is a positive for us going forward. We're out a little something on this, so we are benefiting from it right now. And -- but we don't do any hedging and I don't anticipate that we will going forward.

ROBERT KESSLER: Great. Nice to see it swing the other way. And thanks for the update.

JOHN WATSON: You bet, thank you. Okay, thank you all. In closing let me say we appreciate everyone's participation today on the call. I would like to thank the analysts for asking the good questions in this morning's session. We are looking forward to seeing you in March and I'm sure you will have lots more questions and will enjoy the material we will be presenting then. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's fourth-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140202ea1v000e8
  


 HD
 Q3  2013  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,830 words
   PD
1 November 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter 2013 earnings conference call.

   TD
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.

(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter earnings conference call and webcast.

On the call with me today are Joe Geagea, Corporate Vice President and President, Gas & Midstream, and Jeff Gustavson, General Manager, Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's third-quarter earnings were $5 billion, or $2.57 per diluted share.

Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 15%. Our debt ratio at the end of September was 11%.

In the third quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares. In the fourth quarter, we expect to repurchase the same amount.

Though not shown on this slide, I would like to call attention to our track record on shareholder returns. We are in first place on total shareholder return for the 3 year, 5 year, and 10 year periods, compared to our peer group of global integrated energy companies.

Turning to slide 4, cash generated from operations was $10 billion during the third quarter, and approximately $25 billion year to date. The third quarter was the strongest cash generation quarter this year. Adverse working capital effects noted earlier in the year continued to abate.

Importantly, third quarter also saw stronger operating performance in both our Upstream and Downstream businesses. Capital and exploratory expenditures were $9.6 billion during the quarter, and $26.4 billion year-to-date.

I would like to make it clear that major resource acquisitions, stemming from our business development activities, are not included in our annual budget targets. We have found the success rate, timing, and pricing for this effort to be too uncertain to effectively include in our annual budgeting and Board approval process for C&E.

Because we have been very successful this year in our resource acquisition effort, taking up acreage and project opportunities in Canada, Australia, and the Kurdistan region of Iraq, we anticipate we will close the year with C&E outlays above our planned level. While there are still some large uncertainties on timing, we presently anticipate our 2013 C&E investments will be around 10% or so higher than our original target for the year.

At quarter-end, our cash balances exceeded $18 billion. As total debt balances were identical in size, we ended the quarter in a neutral net cash, net debt position. Confirming what I have said previously, the Company continues to move toward a more traditional net debt structure.

Jeff will now take us through the quarterly comparison. Jeff?

JEFF GUSTAVSON, GENERAL MANAGER IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 5, I'll compare results of the third quarter 2013 with the second quarter of 2013. As a reminder, our earnings release compares third quarter 2013 with the same quarter a year ago.

Third-quarter earnings were $5 billion, about $400 million lower than second-quarter results. Foreign exchange movements accounted for more than the overall decrease in earnings, worth almost $600 million of the decline. The strengthening of the US dollar in the second quarter, and the weakening of the US dollar in the third quarter caused a significant swing between the two periods.

We moved from a net positive foreign exchange position in the second quarter of $300 million to a net negative position at nearly the same amount of third quarter. Without this element, our earnings performance this quarter would actually be better than the prior quarter.

Upstream earnings were up $143 million, reflecting higher liquids realizations and liftings, mostly offset by unfavorable foreign exchange effects. Downstream results decreased $386 million between quarters. Lower margins and unfavorable foreign exchange effects, partly offset by higher volumes, drove the decrease. The variance in the Other bar largely reflects an unfavorable swing in corporate tax items during the quarter.

On slide 6, our US Upstream earnings for the third quarter were $57 million lower than second quarter's results. Higher realizations increased earnings by $90 million, driven largely by a rise in crude oil prices, partially offset by the fall in natural gas prices.

Lower production volumes decreased earnings by $30 million, mainly due to maintenance activity in the Gulf of Mexico, partly offset by higher production in the Permian. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including higher DD&A, and higher exploration expenses.

Turning to slide 7, International Upstream earnings were $200 million higher than the second quarter. Higher realizations increased earnings by $430 million.

Average liquids unit realizations increased by 11%, consistent with the increase in average Brent spot prices between quarters. The timing of liftings across multiple countries increased earnings by $90 million. At the end of the quarter, we were in a slightly over-lifted position.

And unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects decreased earnings by $465 million. The third quarter had a loss of about $190 million compared to a gain of about $275 million in the second quarter.

The Other bar reflects a number of items. Favorable tax effects, gains on asset transactions, and lower operating expenses were partially offset by higher exploration expenses.

Slide 8 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Production increased 3,000 barrels per day between quarters. New wells in our Agbami and Usan projects in Nigeria, additional production from the Delaware Basin in the Permian, as well as volumes associated with Angola LNG increased net production by about 22,000 barrels per day.

Planned maintenance activities decreased production by 14,000 barrels per day during the quarter, most notably in the UK, Trinidad, and Thailand, with a partial offset from less maintenance activity in Australia. External constraints hurt third quarter production by 10,000 barrels per day, primarily due to a mid-quarter lightning strike in Thailand, which severely damaged and necessitated the shutdown of a customer's gas processing plant. This in turn curtailed our Thai gas production.

The base business and other bar includes the impact of normal field declines, cost recoveries, and the impact of price effects on the entitlement volumes. Production for the first three quarters of 2013 averaged just over 2.6 million barrels a day, below our initial full-year production guidance of 2.65 million barrels per day.

Several factors have affected our year-to-date production results. First, Angola LNG's ramp-up of production has been slower than anticipated.

Second, turnaround activity across various locations has been more extensive than originally planned. A final contributing factor relates to the damage at the gas plant in Thailand.

We expect volumes to be higher in the fourth quarter as production is restored, following maintenance-related downtime during the third quarter, and as new production comes online. For the full year, we expect to come in around 98% to 99% of our original production target.

Turning to slide 9, US Downstream earnings improved by $111 million between periods. Higher volumes increased earnings by $55 million, primarily due to our Richmond, California refinery running at normal capacity for the full quarter. Lower refining and marketing margins decreased earnings by $95 million, driven by rising crude costs.

Reduced industry crack spreads also reflected improved supply conditions and higher plant utilization rates, following the end of second-quarter maintenance activity. Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $30 million, primarily due to lower environmental charges.

Greater gains on miscellaneous small asset sales improved earnings in the third quarter by $60 million. The Chemicals and Other variance primarily reflects the absence of planned and unplanned downtime at CPChem's Port Arthur and Sweeny plants in the second quarter.

On slide 10, International Downstream earnings decreased by $497 million between quarters. Higher plant utilization rates boosted volumes and increased earnings by $30 million in the third quarter.

Refining and marketing margins were lower by $220 million. Rising crude costs, continued soft product demand, and oversupply in the Far East weakened industry crack spreads, while price lag effects, mainly for jet fuel and naphtha in Asia impacted marketing margins. Timing effects represented a $140 million negative earnings variance between quarters, driven largely by the revaluation of inventory. The swing between quarters was primarily due to rising crude prices during the third quarter, compared to falling crude prices during the second quarter.

Foreign currency swings reduced earnings by about $115 million. Third quarter had a loss of approximately $85 million, compared to a small gain of $30 million in the second quarter. The Other bar includes a number of unrelated items, including various tax items, and higher shipping costs.

Slide 11 covers All Other. Third-quarter net charges were $522 million, compared to $350 million in the second quarter, an increase of $172 million between periods. Adverse corporate tax items resulted in a $219 million decrease to earnings between quarters.

Our overall year-to-date effective tax rate, at just around 40%, is trending a little lower than in recent years. As you know, in any one period, this overall rate can be influenced by many factors, including jurisdictional mix between Upstream and Downstream, jurisdictional mix within Upstream, foreign exchange, and asset sales transactions. Corporate charges and other items were $47 million lower this quarter.

Year-to-date net charges in the All Other segment were $1.3 billion at the end of the third quarter. We believe our quarterly guidance range of $400 million to $500 million for the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.

Joe is now going to provide an update on our LNG marketing activities. Joe?

JOE GEAGEA, CORPORATE VP & PRESIDENT, GAS AND MIDSTREAM, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. I would like to spend a few minutes talking about the LNG market, and our LNG portfolio.

So turning to slide 13, I will start by grounding you quickly on the global demand outlook for energy. The world economy is growing, driving increased demand for all forms of energy, and much of this growth is in Asia, where people increasingly aspire for a better quality of life, and achieving this aspiration does require stable, secure, and affordable energy supplies.

Total world energy demand is forecast to increase 30% by 2025 from today's level. Natural gas demand is projected to grow even more, by about 40% by 2025, and LNG demand growth is expected to be even greater.

Starting to slide 14, LNG demand has already doubled since 2000, and it is predicted to double again by 2025. Meeting this demand would require three elements. Maintaining the reliability of existing supply, delivering current LNG projects under construction, and investing in the construction of new LNG capacity.

Even if the first two elements are well in hand, that still leaves an opportunity of around 150 million tons per year of new projects to be sanctioned. Now, many buyers are counting on the United States to make up the shortfall, with pricing linked to Henry Hub.

Even if you believe the most optimistic predictions of new US supply available for export, there is still a projected shortfall of more than 50 million tons in 2025. And more reasonable predictions of US exports suggest a gap of around 100 million tons in 2025. So the US alone will not bridge this forecast demand supply gap, and thus we believe new supply needs to come from multiple sources.

Now developing these supplies will also take time, whether that's for permitting and construction of US LNG export terminals, or for exploration, appraisal and development of new producing regions, such as East Africa. Building and maintaining LNG facilities is technically challenging, capital intensive, and requires significant expertise.

The last 35 LNG projects developed globally took on average of over 18 years to deliver that LNG to market, although we do acknowledge that completion times are improving. Additionally, capacity utilization rates for LNG facilities in production have only averaged about 85% in recent years. Geopolitical instability, resource availability, and unplanned turnarounds have resulted on average in roughly 35 million metric tons of the existing nameplate capacity being unavailable at any given time.

Turning to slide 15, while we have seen growth in global energy trading and expect that interregional trade of LNG will continue to increase, we believe that global gas markets will remain regionally distinct over the medium to long term. This is mainly due to the high cost and relative lack of infrastructure to transport and store gas globally.

While two-thirds of the world's oil is shipped by tanker, only 10% of the world's current natural gas supply is shipped as LNG. Now this is forecast increased to 14% by 2025. We believe the majority of this LNG will continue to be delivered under long-term contracts.

The traditional LNG importing countries of Japan, Korea, and Taiwan have no interconnecting pipeline infrastructure, and virtually no indigenous energy resources, and therefore rely on LNG to meet almost all of their gas demand. Only five years ago, 17 countries were importing LNG. Today, 26 countries are doing so, and this is expected to increase.

So let's move to slide 16, where I'd like to focus more specifically on US LNG exports. Many analysts forecast that US LNG exports should reach approximately 50 million tons per year by 2025, equivalent to around 11% of the world LNG demand, and about 8% of domestic US gas demand.

At these levels, US LNG exports would only represent a small share of the global LNG market. Greenfield LNG projects are unlikely to be developed outside of the United States, unless a significant portion of the offtake is committed under long-term contracts, with robust pricing that underpins the financial investment required to monetize these resources.

A common perception is that Henry Hub linked pricing will mean landed LNG prices in Asia will be significantly less than other world sources. We think that is not automatically a given. US liquefaction costs are likely to rise, as more projects compete for resources, including engineering contractors, fabrication yard space, and project financing.

In addition, growing demand in the United States for new petrochemical projects, power plants, exports to Mexico and the transportation segment, will mean new demand pull on the same supply base. Coupled with weather and storage effects, this could easily lead to increased price strength and volatility for Henry Hub. In order to ensure that sufficient supplies do get developed, there needs to be cooperation, alignment, and understanding between LNG buyers and suppliers.

This is helpful when buyers diversify their energy mix, maintain a geographically diverse LNG portfolio, recognizing that no one region, including the United States, can meet all expected demand, and finally take equity positions in LNG projects, to ensure the right projects are built in the right places, for the right price. Now, we have seen this formula work in Gorgon and Wheatstone, and we're confident the same will be true for Kitimat.

Turning to slide 17, I would like to now talk about our LNG sale commitments. From a portfolio perspective, we believe it is prudent to leave around 25% of volume for placement on the spot market for operational flexibility. However, at the individual project level, this ratio may very.

For example, on Gorgon, we are 65% committed. We are still prepared to increase volumes under contract, however, Gorgon is scheduled to come online when a time when limited new supplies are expected, so we are confident in being able to place uncommitted volumes into the market.

On Wheatstone, 85% of Chevron's equity LNG is now committed on a long-term basis. In addition to the Gorgon and Wheatstone foundation projects, we have made good progress this year with buyers for LNG from our Indonesia Deepwater Development, or IDD.

For our unsanctioned projects, including IDD, Kitimat, and Gorgon Train 4, we are targeting to have around 70% committed under long-term contracts, by the time we reach our final investment decision. Once achieved, we will end up with our desired portfolio objective of having 75% of our LNG production sold through long-term contracts.

Turning to slide 18, I would like to close by showing you how Chevron is well-positioned to become a major LNG supplier by the end of this decade, based on WoodMac estimates. With the projects under construction at Gorgon and Wheatstone, and with our existing equity shares at Angola LNG and Australia North West Shelf, we will be one of the top 10 LNG suppliers in the world. If we include Kitimat and Gorgon Train 4, we will potentially move into the top five.

In summary, we see strong LNG market fundamentals supporting our growing LNG portfolio, which should allow us to deliver strong future cash generation for many years to come. I will now turn it back to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you, Joe. Now, let's take a look at the latest update on our LNG projects.

The Gorgon project is over 70% complete. We continue to make good progress in all fronts. In early October, we installed the third of five gas turbine generators.

To date, 14 of the 21 LNG Train 1 process modules have been installed, 3 are in transit, and the remaining are scheduled to follow in fairly rapid succession. Work on the jetty is progressing. We now have 43 of the 56 jetty caissons installed, including those needed to support all key structural elements.

We have recently reached mechanical completion of the domestic gas pipeline, in preparation for operational readiness by year-end. Offshore pipe lays are complete on the Io-Jansz 30-inch pipeline. And finally, three wells at the Io-Jansz field are ready to flow gas, and seven wells are completed at the Gorgon field.

Wheatstone is proceeding per plan, and is now over 20% complete. We continue to transform the site with ongoing earthwork and good progress on establishing critical infrastructure. Construction continues on the materials offloading facility, and we completed our first permanent foundation concrete pour in September.

Site preparation continues with about 19% of our 23,000 piles driven, including the commencement of the LNG tank pile driving. Platform construction is over 43% complete, and we have received critical platform equipment, such as the power transformers and process vessels. We just completed our micro-tunnel boring under the shoreline, in preparation for the offshore installation of the truck line.

Now, we have posted several updated photos of progress made at both Gorgon and Wheatstone on our investor website, located at Chevron.com, and I invite you to take a look at those.

For Kitimat, front-end engineering continues on plan. We remain focused on early earthworks at the LNG plant site, where construction on the office, camp industrial site, and service road is ongoing.

Key activities for the Pacific Trail Pipeline are obtaining necessary permits, building roads, and securing right-of-way access. LNG marketing activities and engagement with potential foundation customers are underway. The timing of the final investment decision will be determined by our ability to secure sufficient LNG offtake agreements with our customers.

Turning now to slide 20, I would like to share some highlights of the strategic progress we have made during the quarter. We signed binding long-term sales and purchase agreements with Tohoku Electric Power Company in Japan, to supply just under 1 million tons per year of LNG, for up to 20 years. As Joe noted, this brings total volumes committed to customers in Asia on a long-term basis to 85% for our Wheatstone project.

Continuing with the Australian theme, we recently announced the acquisition of two deepwater exploration interests located in the Bight Basin, off the southern Australian coast. These are very large blocks, with significant exploration potential, and further reinforces the importance of Australia to Chevron's global growth strategy.

In Canada, we successfully completed an initial 12-well exploration drilling program in the liquids-rich program of the Kaybob area of the Duvernay shale play. Initial well results were very encouraging, with average initial production rates in excess of 1,200 barrels of oil equivalent per day. Both of these developments are consistent with our focus on early entry opportunities, which have the potential to generate the most value for our shareholders.

We also had a major milestone in our Downstream and Chemicals business. CPChem announced Final Investment Decisions for its US Gulf Coast petrochemicals project.

This project includes construction of a 1.5 million metric ton per year ethane cracker, as well as two new polyethylene facilities, each with an annual capacity of 500,000 metric tons. This is an attractive project, one that takes advantage of existing infrastructure and advanced feedstock. Plant startup is planned for 2017.

Turning now to slide 21, I would like to close by highlighting our continued strong performance, particularly in our Upstream business. Our 2013 year-to-date Upstream earnings margin was $23.33 per barrel. Based on these year-to-date results, we continue to lead our direct peer group by a wide margin, we are almost $5.70 per barrel ahead of our closest competitor.

This is a position we have now held for 15 consecutive quarters. We also led on this important metric at the six-month mark by over $4.25 per barrel, against a wide range of E&P companies. These peer-leading financial results are directly related to the quality of our investment decisions, and the strength of our portfolio.

We appreciate you listening in this morning, and your interest in the company. I would now like to open the microphones. Joe and I are happy to take your questions.

We do have a full queue, so please limit yourself to one question and a single related follow-up, if that is necessary. We will certainly do our very best to see that we get all your questions answered. So Jonathan, please open up the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse. Your question please.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks very much for getting Joe on the call, so I will start with an LNG question. I am up late tonight, and I keep getting these stories from Australia on my iPad, which obviously bang around the market, and people are very worried about the LNG jetty, or whatever it is, something else, with the project. Maybe give us color on how you're feeling about the start-up date and maybe if there are any penalties if the date slips back in time, what is the killer date to get Gorgon onstream?

PAT YARRINGTON: Thanks Ed for the question. I think we have been pretty upfront about acknowledging some of the challenges that we have had earlier.

We talked previously about logistics challenges, labor productivity, and weather challenges. We have solved, for all practical purposes, the logistics challenges, and in fact, we have asked for and have received additional laydown space on the island, and so we are able to now build material and inventory on Barrow Island.

Productivity, I would say, is improving on all fronts, but there are still some areas that still need to improve. We are impacted by weather. We had a heavy rainy period back in June, but right now, we're in the good weather period and are making very good progress each month.

I think we are moving into a critical phase from a schedule standpoint on the project. We talked about getting all of Train 1 modules onto the island. That is proceeding pretty much as planned.

I think largely they will be here by year-end or shortly into the new year. Maybe one that will be mid-quarter next year.

What's important next is the mechanical, electrical, and instrumentation work and construction -- contractor work on those activities is ramping up on the island now. But there are still uncertainties that exist with the project of our size, and our challenge every day is to mitigate the risks, find the risks, mitigate the risks as they arrive.

But the jetty, I think we tried to say, all the critical elements of the jetty, the main critical elements of the jetty, those that support the structural elements, are on plan. Right now, we are in the process of finalizing our budgets for the year, and should there be any reviews during that, that suggest a material change, other than what we have said previously, we will certainly bring that to your attention. But I do not have anything more to offer.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks.

JOE GEAGEA: Let me address your question on the marketing side. I would like to say that our customers are our partners, so they fully understand the project challenges.

I would also say that Gorgon is not coming up all at once, it is one train at the time, so that gives us time to work with our partners, with our customers on accommodating their needs. We have those discussions ongoing all the time. I cannot address specifically what is in our contract with respect to penalties, as you can appreciate these are commercial elements, and I cannot address those.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley. Your question please.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks for the LNG commentary, as well as addressing that CapEx question. Staying with Gorgon, Joe, can you update us on how the FEED on Train 4 is progressing, and what is the interplay on trains 1 and 3? Their progress, and the ultimate decision upon expansion, meaning do your partners need to see more final Gorgon cost estimates before committing to the expansion, and albeit, it's a significantly lower unit cost expansion.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, I will take the question around Train 4. I think we continue to work with our partners. We are all interested certainly in seeing this continue to progress. I think all of the JV partners are interested though, in seeing Train 1 come up and seeing progress on 2 and 3, et cetera.

Everybody wants to get an understanding of the cost structure. I also think that people want to get certainty around the fiscal and regulatory regime, and as you know, there's been a change of government in Australia. So a little bit of settling down and stability there would be appreciated. Those factors are going to be taken into account.

I also think it is fair to say that the cost structure in Australia is different now than it was when Train 1 was taken, trains 1 through 3 were taken to Final Investment Decision back in 2009. The cost structure has elevated, and I think it's fair to say, that has put at risk some of Australia's kind of global competitiveness.

So from a Chevron standpoint, we are going to look at Train 4 and we are going to assess it under those new conditions, and we're going to look at that, relative to other opportunities that we have got in our portfolio, and look for that next investment to compete with other opportunities. Obviously, Train 4 does have certain brownfield economic advantages to it, but we need to take those advantages, lay in the new macro conditions that we see in Australia, and take a look at the whole portfolio activity. Having said all of that, we are continuing on with environmental approvals for Train 4.

JOE GEAGEA: So maybe I will add a bit of color commentary also, because the marketing is essential to Train 4, and all the reasons that Pat has mentioned, I would also say that the LNG market has different dynamics, as well. Our job is to continue to find customers for Train 4, which we continue to do. We believe the offerings of Train 4 are different than the offering of our other projects, like Kitimat.

Train 4 is an expansion, is a Brownfield expansion, Train 4 is exposure to Australia. Train 4, however, does not have equity, unlike Kitimat, where we're offering equity. So it caters to a different set of customers, and in our view, from a marketing perspective, it is really not competing with Kitimat, and I think that's important for us to say.

EVAN CALIO: Thank you, so the follow-up is that -- does that mean that potential debottlenecking of trains 1 through 3 is something that could potentially precede a Train 4? I mean, I understand there are three different tranches of potential expansion. Does that change the debottlenecking opportunity to move that forward, or is that still something that would follow, if it did in fact follow?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, I mean, Evan, debottlenecking is always something that you would do, as an ordinary course of activity. Oftentimes, it has the very highest economics associated with it, so that will be taken into account in our normal planning process.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, great. I'll let somebody else, thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of John Herrlin from Societe Generale. Your question, please.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Yes just two quick ones. With the Duvernay wells, about how much were they running? I know it's science time in its early days, but I'm wondering about approximate cost.

PAT YARRINGTON: Are you talking approximate well costs?

JOHN HERRLIN: Well costs.

PAT YARRINGTON: That is not a number that we want to give out at this point in time.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, that is fine. Next one is on LNG. Are you surprised at all that on the demand side, in terms of customers, that they haven't built more physical gas storage, in Asia, and do you think that will change as the LNG market builds up more?

JOE GEAGEA: That is a very good question John, this is Joe here. It is going to take time to for them to get there.

Clearly, there is some capacity with the regas terminals, and we're seeing that in Thailand, we're seeing that in Singapore, but remember that market is huge. So a significant amount of storage has to be made available for it to really make a difference. I think we may get there eventually, but I see a slow pace to get to that point.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America - Merrill Lynch. Your question, please.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: If I could try two also, please. Joe, first of all, can you remind us what the contract resets look like on your baseload marketing, for Gorgon in particular? Maybe when you're addressing that question, if you would talk a little bit about whether the issue around Henry Hub pricing is really more about delinking, and in the event -- oil for example went to $150, but led to actually depressing the current price, and I have a follow-up.

JOE GEAGEA: I will start by saying that most contracts that are of that length, 20 years, for them to be sustainable and to be win-win for both buyer and seller has reopeners on them. Without getting into specifics, these reopeners are meant to really make sure that the pricing formula continue to reflect the market. What I can tell you, is that all of our projects are paced, that we are not going to see major renewal for a big portion of the volume, all in one year. We are being very careful in pacing these renewables over time, because again, that is in our interest and in the buyers' interest, to spread that renewal timing over a longer frame than just having them all occur at the same time.

Back to your questions on Henry Hub. There are two elements to it. We have been public in saying that LNG that comes out of the United States, made in the United States is perfectly okay for it to be priced out of Henry Hub. LNG that is made in Australia, East Africa, or Canada, it's a harder proposition to see why you would introduce a regional market reference to those markets, so that's been very difficult.

In terms of breaking the oil linkage, I will tell you that for the last four years, the industry has learned to operate within an oil framework that saw oil prices go up $140 and go down to $20. I submit to you that within these traditional framework, you can introduce S-curves, you can moderate slopes, there are a lot of other levers that actually work to prevent LNG from becoming very unaffordable in the regions where affordability is becoming an issue.

So I think we can address those excursions that could be harmful from an affordability point of view, within a traditional framework, without necessarily going to something unproven that could also be a lot more volatile. We have also said that one way for people to get a better attenuation on price is for them to get into the equity side. That clearly gives them direct exposure to the upstream side, to the whole value chain, and effectively you are getting an attenuation to pricing, because you're getting the whole value chain and benefits from that. So hopefully that helps.

DOUG LEGGATE: It does a lot, thanks, Joe. My follow-up is quicker, we all watch the unit earnings trends very strongly, the earnings trends you've had for quite some time now. But whether we want to look at earnings or cash flow, the focus is earnings.

My question is, your DD&A runs about $6 lower than your peer group, and that appears to be trending higher. So when you have all of this non-producing capital coming online from these new projects, can you give us some feel as to how the DD&A trend will look? And I'll leave it at that, thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right, so Doug I think you should expect, we have seen and you should expect the trend to continue, higher charges for DD&A. Certainly, that's the pattern we've seen over the last couple of years, it's the pattern that we have seen looking at 2013 versus 2012, and it is the expectation that I would have going forward for 2014, and it is a direct reflection of the capital investment programs that we have had underway, and as we bring those new projects online, you see rate increases associated with that.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right, I'll leave it there. Thanks, Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: But Doug, I would say, it's important, even with that, we still have the leading earnings per barrel margin, and we have the leading cash margin.

DOUG LEGGATE: I'm just trying to figure out what the future trend is going to look like when these projects, come up, Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: I appreciate that.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng, from Barclays Capital. Your question, please

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Two somewhat related questions, one for Joe, and one for Pat. For Joe, when we look at Kitimat, if you can give us some idea of what is the competitive position relative to building a LNG plant in Kitimat, and operate there, which is a pretty remote area, and later could be an issue, compared to in Australia, where you have a lot of operations, or in the Gulf of Mexico, where you don't have a lot of operation.

So that's the first one. Pat, do you want me to give you the second one first?

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure.

PAUL CHENG: If I look at, this is not an issue in the near term, but your current cash flow essentially just barely covers your CapEx. And so at what point now, of course when you have zero net debt, that is not an issue today, but theoretically, at a management standpoint, at what point do you start questioning whether you want to continue borrowing money to buy back stock, and at what point will that continue, once that you eliminate the share buyback, that you will have to relook at your CapEx program?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, good question.

JOE GEAGEA: I will go first on the Kitimat question, and it's a very good question. I will start by talking a little bit about the resource base.

If you look at our acquisition of that resource base, we are very, very pleased with the entry price. So we also know that we have a huge resource base in both Liard and the Horn River.

That resource base sits right at the gate of North Asia, where we continuously see increased demand. So strategically, it is very well-positioned for our North Asia buyers, and our buyers see that, and that is the value proposition we've been communicating to them.

They also see in Kitimat two partners that have complementary skills, they are very aligned, and very committed to the project. They see a federal government and a provisional government that are supportive and understand the opportunity.

They see a country that is very much in favor of exports, and tilting toward Asia. They see a project with export permits in hand, and a clear line of sight on a pipeline and a transportation solution.

Now you did say something about the labor costs. I will tell you though, if we are the first out of the gate, we will have an ability to attenuate that, versus being the last one coming in to develop the project.

And finally what we tell our buyers, this is a great opportunity for them to participate through equity and the whole value chain, and in doing so they really get direct exposure to North American gas pricing. All of those are good value drivers for any buyer in north Asia. They are getting it, I think we're getting good reception, and obviously time will tell in our ability to sign contracts, but we are very encouraged by what we see, and the value that Kitimat can offer to those buyers. Now go back to Pat for the capital outlook.

PAUL CHENG: Joe, before that, from a cost standpoint, do you -- because you know a lot about Australia, and I presume you know quite a lot about Gulf Coast. Is developing cost and operating cost of Kitimat is going to be competitive with Australia, but cheaper than the Gulf Coast or any insight you can provide?

JOE GEAGEA: It's too early for us. I remind you that we signed the transaction in February of this year, and we became operator in July of this year.

We are really getting on top -- there are two things here that we need to be careful on, is project development and execution, which is really what we're focused on, and secondly the marketing, and they have to go hand-in-hand. I would tell you though, the freight advantage that we see in Western Canada clearly is something in favor of Canada, compared to Gulf Coast exports.

PAT YARRINGTON: Paul going back to your question, I want to start with the priorities that we have always put out there in terms of uses of cash. Dividends first, reinvesting in the business, taking care of our balance sheet, and then share repurchases really come at the very tail end of that. And you are right, we are in a period, right now, where our capital requirements are high.

Just to remind you, we have got five LNG trains under construction, that is a very significant component. We do not have and do not in the forward-look that we will have anything as lumpy as that, or as sized as that.

So we know 2013 is a high C&E year. We have said in the past the 2014 will be a high C&E year. George referenced last time on the call about a flattening that will occur. So we do see that the uniqueness of our capital spent period right is not something that we see coming forward in two or three years.

At the same time though, we do fundamentally believe our greatest value proposition for our shareholders is finding and investing in the right resources, and developing the right projects. So we will continue to invest in the business, and so you see us doing that, in terms of resource acquisitions that I talked about earlier.

We try very hard to balance this returns and growth equation here, and we've been very successful. The decisions that we have made and we believe the new resource acquisitions that we have made for the future, for growth, 2020 and beyond, are excellent projects. So we believe we are putting that equation together quite nicely.

I guess the other thing that I would say is, when you bring in new resource acquisitions, like we have done with Kurdistan, or Cooper Basin, or Kitimat, et cetera, when you are adding those elements to your portfolio, it does mean that you reprioritize your portfolio, and certain things probably fall toward the bottom. These would be more mature assets, less competitive in our portfolio, believe they have a potentially a spot in someone else's portfolio, and that is where your asset sale or portfolio optimization component increases.

We've been very good at doing that in Downstream, you've seen us do all that restructuring in Downstream. Joe has overseen a fair amount of restructuring occurring in our Midstream area, and I think you can expect some additional asset sales now coming forward from Upstream.

PAUL CHENG: Is there some form of matrix that you look at from a financial net debt to capital, or net debt to EBITDA you would look at? Once you reach a certain level of the share buyback, we'll say maybe they come to a halt?

PAT YARRINGTON: We obviously are interested in maintaining our AA status, credit rating status. We're not interested in infringing upon that at all, so we look at that as the limiting factor. But frankly, Paul, we are such a long way away from that at this point, it is not a limiting component.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you our next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan from Citigroup. Your question, please.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Two questions. First, on the LNG facility in Canada or potential LNG facility in Canada.

Can you discuss the merits of owning the entire integrated asset? Why not move into a more asset-light model where a utility-like company owns the liquefaction facility, you own the resource, and you market the gas, and charter the ships? It seems like it's a very large piece of invested capital, there's a lot of companies out there, especially in Canada and the US that have the ability to finance this stuff at a much lower cost of capital.

And my follow-up is, it seems like building a pipeline from the yard in Horn River even to Kitimat is very expensive. There is a lot of depreciated pipe all the way from there down to the Gulf Coast that has a lower invested capital base.

Why not ship the gas down there, and sign up with one of these other facilities that are sort of ramping up? That's a little in left field, but maybe you can help me answer those.

JOE GEAGEA: That's not in left field at all, Faisel, good question. Let me tell you we are not building up pipeline from the field to the LNG facility. We are clearly leveraging existing trunk lines that currently run, and they are operated and owned by others.

The piece that we are building is a link from the trunk line to our facility. I call that our umbilical, and that is very essential for us to actually control that, to control the feed going into the LNG facility.

So where we can, we are leveraging other facilities, infrastructures, processing plants could be another place where we leverage as well. So we are adopting some of what you are suggesting.

When we do this we always look at the strategic fit of the asset. Is it essential for us to control it from a commercial point of view, is it essential for flow assurance to our facility, those are normally governing criteria for us to decide whether we want to own the interconnecting framework, the same thing about ships.

We can sell FOB, as well, and we don't have to build ships, but sometimes we have to build ships to ensure flow assurance on the back end of the LNG facility. The name of the game is really to get the molecules that we just acquired at a very attractive price, in the Horn and Liard to the market, and maximize our returns and we look through that whole thing in details.

And the other options also we are looking at, from lowering the capital investment, we are asking other equity partners to come in, and by farming in for buyers, clearly we are lowering the capital exposure. So we are looking at all of that to basically address the element of the question that you brought, Faisel.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, and then the pipeline gas. If you could pipeline all this gas down to the Gulf Coast on what is basically all this depreciated pipeline, whether it's Alliance or Northern Border, and then down to -- down in GPL to the Gulf coast.

I mean, the invested capital of those assets is far lower than these pipelines that TransCanada and Spectra are talking about building to supply that gas to the Canadian west coast. I mean, is that an opportunity where you can move that resource down to the Gulf Coast and export it out of the Gulf coast, and with the Panama Canal opening up, it seems like an asset-light model, but I don't know.

JOE GEAGEA: Food for thought, thank you, Faisel.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, fair enough. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you our next question comes from the line of Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James. Your question, please.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Two questions on your unconventional gas exposure. US gas production was up almost 5% year-over-year. Is that primarily legacy Atlas acreage?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think there is both an Atlas component, as well as a newer Permian Delaware Basin component to that.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, fair enough. And then onto Europe. Lots of headlines recently involving countries where you are operating, or thought about operating in. Lithuania, Romania, et cetera. Any status update you want to provide on how you're thinking about that?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think we tried to say, right from the get-go, that this would be a long-term development opportunity, and that it would take several years really to understand how the overall play could develop. We do think, if it works, and if it is proven up, then there is enough here to potentially build a business, but we are just in the very early stages of exploration, and so I do not want to get -- I don't want to leap into far, too soon, with implications here.

We are active in Poland, we have drilled four wells. We've got 3D seismic underway as well there. In Romania, we are picking up seismic activity. Ukraine, we are still interested in having the PSA signed, and we are hopefully getting closer on that.

So we continue to make progress. It will be dependent upon the local governments and the local communities wanting to have us be there, and so that has been a challenge. It is an exploration play, so I think we need to give it time to mature.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: All right, I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Roger Read with Wells Fargo. Your question, please.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I guess I would like to, on the upstream side, focus a little bit more on the cost side of things. I mean obviously, it was a good quarter in terms of realizations on the top line, but you talked a little bit of earlier about DD&A being an issue. Is there anything else, maybe particular to the third quarter, from an operating cost standpoint, that is not recurring? I know maintenance is an issue sometimes, but I was just seeing if you could help us there, and think about how that unfolds in 2014 and 2015?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think from a cost standpoint, so exploration was heavier in the third quarter than the second quarter, but if you look on a year-to-date basis, it's pretty much in line with what we had seen previously. We are seeing higher industry costs, you referenced that, I think that's just a general trend that has been evident.

But also, maintenance in the third quarter was a little bit heavier, per planned as well as some unplanned as well. So I think those are the factors that I would call your attention to.

ROGER READ: And in terms of any thoughts on 2014 and 2015, are we seeing trends here? I agree with you that the industry is seeing higher costs, but are there any trends specific to Chevron that we should think about? Or even another way of asking it, as the LNG projects come on, are we going to see that as a significant impact, maybe lowering operating cost?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, I do not think that the unique in Chevron's operations, going forward, that I would suggest. I think I will defer on the LNG operations side of things. I am not in a position to comment about what op expense looks like in 2015 and 2016 at this point.

Okay, I think we have time for one my question.

OPERATOR: Certainly. Our final question comes from the line of Allen Good from Morningstar. Your question, please.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning everyone. Just a couple for Joe on LNG. You have been pretty detailed on the merits of Canadian gas, relative to Gorgon, and relative to the US. Should we go ahead and take it that exporting natural gas out of the Gulf Coast does not fit competitively within Chevron's current LNG portfolio?

JOE GEAGEA: Well, you're making too many assumptions right there. We are focused on Kitimat for now, and again, we have opportunities in Australia. We're not ruling anything out at this stage, but at the same time, I am not prepared to tell you that we will not look at opportunities anywhere else in the world. For now, we're focusing on Canada.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, and finally, you mentioned the appeal of the equity availability in Kitimat for some of your potential partners. Is there a minimum equity stake that Chevron would like to retain in Kitimat, or vice versa, a target that you would like to sell down as a portion of equity in the project?

JOE GEAGEA: We have not put any number out there, obviously, it's up to the buyer also to indicate interest. We kind of like a number in our mind, in terms of where we will end up, but it's really a function of where the buyers are. We're flexible, and remember, we have a partner as well, and we have to consult with them in terms of where they would like to end up. The gate is open, though, for the buyers to tell us what they think. I do not know that we have indicated externally what that number is, but we are open to entertain the buyers' ideas.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay thanks. If I get one more quick one. You make a great convincing case that the demand for LNG will be out there. Do you see any threats in the supply side, though, that could potentially disrupt the potential long-term economics for LNG projects?

JOE GEAGEA: In fact, I see the threat in the opposite direction. I see that threat as the longer it's taking us to enable projects to reach FID, and you fast-forward it four or five years, how long it takes to build them, this market can only go up.

And that is not really what the buyers would like, and that's why our plea with the buyers have been, we need to enable supply to come to the market, because we have not been anything on the demand side that is managing that carefully. We see more subsidy, we see nuclear out of the energy mix, we see shale gas development in a lot of places, slower outside the United States.

All of that points to more need for LNG, and I look at how many projects are actually reaching FID outside the United States, I don't see a whole lot, and that can only mean problems down the road.

We have seen that play out in the past, back in 2007 there was an estimate of about 75 million tons of LNG that would hit the market in 2014. As we said today, there's only 10 millions tons that will come in 2014. So we have got to crack this equation, both from the supply side and the demand side, and the longer we see projects delayed from reaching FID, I think the price equation gets more difficult.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, thanks for that.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you. Before we close out the call, since we did not get a question on Ecuador, I would like to provide our investors an update on this matter before we close out here. It is a very important matter.

As you're probably well aware, there have been several recent positive developments related to this ongoing litigation. Earlier in the year several key witnesses, financiers, and other associates, including an Ecuadorian judge involved in the case, publicly denounced and exposed numerous examples of the blatant fraudulent tactics used by the plaintiffs lawyers during the trial.

But more recently, an international tribunal, convened under the authority of the US Ecuador Bilateral Investment Treaty, and administered by the permanent Court of Arbitration in the Hague found that the settlement and release agreements between the Government of Ecuador and Texaco in the mid-to-late 90s released Texaco Petroleum Company from any liability for all public interest or collective environmental claims. Now, this is the definitive ruling on the single most important legal issue in the case, and it was made by an impartial tribunal in Hague, where Chevron had picked one arbiter, the government of Ecuador had picked one arbiter, and we both had agreed on the third, and it was a unanimous ruling.

Importantly, this ruling confirms that the claims against Texaco were not valid, and should not have been brought in the first place, and it also signifies that efforts to enforce the Ecuadorian judgment, which the plaintiffs have so far unsuccessfully attempted in both Canada and Argentina, that those are in direct violation of national and international laws.

Now, separately, a couple of weeks back, on October 15, the US trial began in New York related to Chevron's civil lawsuit against the Lago Agrio plaintiff, and several of their lawyers, consultants, and supporters, alleging RICO violations, violations of the Racketeer Influence and Corrupt Organizations Act. Trial proceedings in this New York lawsuit are expected to last a few more weeks.

So, we are encouraged by these recent developments, but at the same time, we expect to need to continue to defend our position and defend our assets well into the future, before final resolution becomes available to us.

So with that, I will close off finally here, and again thank you for your interest in the Company and your time here this morning. Good day to everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131103e9b1003jv
  


 HD
 Q2  2013  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,157 words
   PD
2 August 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter 2013 earnings conference call.

   TD
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today is George Kirkland, Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Upstream, and Jeff Gustavson, General Manager for Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's second-quarter earnings were $5.4 billion, or $2.77 per diluted share. Return on Capital Employed for the trailing 12 months was about 16%.

Our debt ratio at the end of June was approximately 12%. In the second quarter, we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares; and in the third quarter, we expect to repurchase the same amount.

Turning to slide 4, cash generated from operations was $8.5 billion during the second quarter and $14.2 billion year-to-date. On last quarter's call, I noted adverse working capital effects, which reduced first-quarter cash generation.

In the second quarter, we saw some, but not complete, reversal of these effects. We expect further working capital release as the remainder of the year unfolds.

In June, the Company executed a $6 billion bond offering, taking advantage of historically low borrowing costs. Capital and exploratory expenditures were $8.6 billion during the second quarter and $16.8 billion year-to-date.

The year-to-date amount includes incremental resource acquisition outlays associated with Kitimat in Canada, Cooper Basin in Australia, and Kurdistan. George will speak to the value drivers behind these additions a little later.

At quarter end, our cash balances exceeded $22 billion, giving us a net cash position of approximately $2 billion. As we indicated to you in March, and as you saw in the first quarter, the Company is moving towards a more traditional net debt structure.

Jeff will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.

JEFF GUSTAVSON, GENERAL MANAGER IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 5. I will compare results of the second-quarter 2013 with the first-quarter 2013. As a reminder, our earnings release compares second-quarter 2013 with the same quarter a year ago.

Second-quarter earnings were $5.4 billion, about $800 million lower than first-quarter results. Upstream earnings were down $967 million, reflecting lower liquids realizations and higher operating expenses associated with increased maintenance activities, partly offset by a favorable swing in foreign currency effects.

Downstream results increased $65 million between quarters. The increase was driven by higher Downstream volumes following heavy maintenance during the prior quarter, which was partially offset by an increase in operating expenses and lower Chemicals earnings. The variance in the Other bar largely reflects favorable corporate tax items during the quarter.

On slide 6, our US Upstream earnings for the second quarter were $49 million lower than first quarter's results. Lower realizations decreased earnings by $25 million, driven by a decline in crude oil prices, partially offset by an increase in natural gas prices. Higher production volumes, primarily from our San Joaquin Valley, California, and Delaware Basin, New Mexico, operations increased earnings by $40 million.

The Other bar reflects a number of other unrelated items including higher operating expenses related to maintenance and other production-related activities as well as slightly higher exploration expenses.

Turning to slide 7, International Upstream earnings were $918 million lower than the first quarter. Realizations decreased earnings by $550 million.

Average liquids unit realizations declined by 8%, in line with the decrease in average Brent spot prices between quarters. The timing of liftings in Kazakhstan and across multiple other countries decreased earnings by $60 million. Higher operating expenses due to increased maintenance activities and the startup of the LNG plant in Angola decreased earnings by $195 million between periods.

A favorable swing in foreign currency effects improved earnings by about $105 million. The second quarter had a gain of about $275 million compared to a gain of about $170 million in the first quarter.

The Other bar includes the absence of favorable tax effects during the first quarter and higher exploration expenses.

Slide 8 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Production decreased 63,000 barrels per day between quarters. Lower prices increased volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts during the second quarter by about 5,000 barrels per day.

Planned turnaround activities in Kazakhstan and Australia had the largest impact, reducing production by 45,000 barrels per day. The Base Business and Other bar includes normal field declines and lower natural gas demand, primarily in Thailand.

Turning to slide 9, US Downstream earnings were essentially flat between periods. Higher volumes increased earnings by $245 million as several refineries came back online during the second quarter following a particularly heavy maintenance period during the first quarter.

Stronger margins increased earnings by $50 million due to lower crude prices as well as tighter product inventories. Operating expenses increased by $180 million largely due to higher fuel consumption, transportation, and environmental-related expenses.

Lower Chemicals results reduced earnings by $110 million, primarily due to lower ethylene margins and reduced volumes on planned and unplanned downtime at two separate plants.

On slide 10, International Downstream earnings improved by $62 million between quarters. Higher volumes increased earnings by $80 million primarily on the absence of maintenance activities at the Cape Town, South Africa, and Burnaby, Canada, refineries.

Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $50 million, reflecting higher fuel usage and employee costs. The Other bar includes a number of unrelated items including an unfavorable swing in foreign exchange impacts and weaker refining margins, partially offset by positive inventory valuation effects driven by falling prices during the second quarter.

Slide 11 covers All Other. Second-quarter net charges were $350 million, compared to $439 million in the first quarter, a decrease of $89 million between periods. Favorable corporate tax items resulted in a $145 million benefit to earnings while corporate charges were $56 million higher this quarter. In part, higher corporate charges reflected an asset impairment as noted in our interim update.

Year-to-date net charges in the All Other segment were $789 million at the end of the second quarter. We believe our quarterly guidance range of $400 million to $500 million for the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.

George is now going to provide an update on our Upstream operations. George?

GEORGE KIRKLAND, VICE CHAIRMAN, EVP OF UPSTREAM, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jeff, and good morning. To begin, I would like to note the progress of our Jack/St. Malo and Big Foot projects for the Gulf of Mexico. This photo shows the hulls of both platforms at the yard in Ingleside, Texas.

The topside modules and hulls of the projects are currently being integrated. Since this photo was taken, additional modules were set on top of the Big Foot hull, which is pictured on the left.

The Jack/St. Malo tow to its location is scheduled for year-end. Jack/St. Malo and Big Foot remain on schedule for 2014 startup, and these are important contributors to our 2017 production target, supporting our profitable growth.

Now let's take a look at our financial performance on slide 13. Our 2013 year-to-date Upstream earnings margin was $23.88 per barrel. Based on first-half results for the peer group, we continue to lead the competition by a considerable margin.

We are almost $6.50 per barrel ahead of our nearest competitor. We have now held this top position for 14 consecutive quarters. This result flows from the quality of our investment decisions, the strength of our portfolio, and the strong execution performance of our base business and projects.

I am also very pleased with our Upstream return on capital employed, which is almost 20%. I expect this to rank at the top of our peer group.

Now I will cover our 2013 production on slide 14. Production in the first half of the year averaged 2.61 million barrels a day at an average year-to-date Brent price of $107.50 per barrel. The first-half results are near our forecast, given our planned turnaround and maintenance activity.

We anticipate an increase in production in the second half of the year. Our 2013 production guidance remains unchanged at 2.65 million barrels a day at an average Brent price of $112 per barrel.

I am pleased that Angola LNG has achieved startup and has now loaded two cargoes to date, with another preparing to load. This significant milestone is the result of the hard work of many individuals in Angola and around the world.

For the second half of the year, we anticipate Angola LNG will be ramping up and will be a large contributor to our production. We plan to load at least 13 cargoes by year-end.

Remember, at peak rates, ALNG should contribute about 60,000 barrels per day to our production. We will have additional production rampups from our other major capital projects including Usan and Tahiti 2. We restarted Frade in Brazil at the end of April and currently have three production wells online.

As seen in the graph, production growth in the second half also comes from our base operations. This includes additional cost recovery for production sharing contracts, additional production out of the Marcellus, and increased drilling activity in the Permian.

These increases are partially offset by planned turnarounds. Overall in 2013 we expect to have a similar level of turnaround activity as we had in 2012 and relatively heavy for both these years.

We continue to have confidence in meeting our 2017 growth target as we bring on new projects and other key developments.

We would like now to update you on the status of a few key projects. Turn to slide 15.

Gorgon is now almost 67% complete. Barrow Island construction has achieved major milestones including the installation of the second gas turbine generator for Train 1. The third of five generators for the site will arrive later this year.

Seven major process modules are on their foundations, and now 11 of the 51 modules are on Barrow Island. The remaining 10 Train 1 modules are scheduled for delivery by year-end. We also recently completed the installation of the 20-inch domestic gas pipeline.

The Gorgon team has resolved the logistics challenges they faced earlier. Additional laydown areas on Barrow Island were established, and material handling has significantly improved.

Increased transportation capacity has allowed the project to exceed material delivery targets. Construction productivity has improved in some key areas, and our team is focused on increasing productivity across the board for Barrow Island construction.

Gorgon module fabrication is progressing, and we are managing it closely. We also continue to carefully monitor labor cost and weather impacts.

In the Upstream, the first five subsea wellheads were set. We have finished the lower completions of all the Gorgon wells and 50% of the Jansz-Io wells.

As one of our key legacy assets, with over 200,000 barrels a day of production net Chevron share, Gorgon will be a major contributor to our future financial performance. We have posted several updated photos of progress made at both Gorgon and Wheatstone on our Investor website located at Chevron.com, and I'd encourage you to go there and look at them.

Next I will review the progress on some of our other key developments. Wheatstone made significant progress in 2013, with the team focused on site infrastructure and Upstream fabrication. We now have over 2,200 people on-site at Onslow.

The offshore platform fabrication began in South Korea with the erection of the cellar deck. Offshore dredging began for the pipeline.

The first phase of the construction village has been completed, and the new runway at Onslow airport is nearing completion. The remaining activities for 2013 focus on site work to prepare for module deliveries in 2014. Wheatstone remains on target for a late 2016 startup.

Kitimat marked an important milestone on July 1 with the transfer of operatorship for the LNG plant and the Pacific Trails Pipeline development to Chevron. Front-end engineering is progressing on plan. Early earthworks continue at the LNG plant site where a total of 6.5 million cubic yards of earth and rock have to be moved.

LNG marketing activities and engagement with potential foundation customers are underway. We are focusing on Asian markets and aim to have 60% to 70% of the LNG volumes under long-term commitment prior to a final investment decision.

In mid-July, we entered into an arrangement with YPF to facilitate the development of a section of the Vaca Muerta Shale Basin, which has a significant potential for both liquids and gas production. This initial program includes 100 wells in a specific portion of a 96,000-acre development area.

This development provides a new opportunity that we believe will be competitive with other projects in our portfolio. Aboveground risks have largely been mitigated through government decrees and the financial structure. All in all, we are pleased with the deal and the opportunity to participate in the development of this world-class resource.

The projects that have just been reviewed provide legacy growth in production and cash flow. Now I will provide an update on our exploration activities. Please turn to slide 17.

We have another active year of exploration where we are on plan to invest over $3 billion. We are making great progress in our key focus areas of the Gulf of Mexico, West Africa, Australia, and North America unconventionals.

Outside of those areas, we have a mixture of conventional and unconventional exploration enhanced by key acreage additions. We have drilled or are currently drilling 10 of our 14 planned impact wells for 2013, including the second well in the Kurdistan region of Iraq which spud on Wednesday.

Now I will highlight a few areas of new activity for 2013. We are maintaining our emphasis on the Permian portfolio and we are increasing drilling activity and exploration, appraisal, and development.

We have enhanced our position in the liquid-rich Delaware Basin and are now the largest leaseholder with significant potential in undeveloped acreage. We drilled our first two wells in the Utica in Ohio and are encouraged by the preliminary results. We will provide more details on this later this year.

We have added another block in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, and our plan is to complete and begin testing two wells this year.

Our Australian portfolio has increased with the addition of acreage in the Cooper Basin tight gas play. Exploration and appraisal wells are in progress.

We have also acquired new acreage in China, Brazil, the US Gulf of Mexico, and Morocco.

Finally, we just announced an agreement for the acquisition of additional acreage in the liquids-rich region of the Kaybob Duvernay Basin. This complements our existing acreage position, where we have drilled 10 of our 13 well program. Results for these multistage fracs are positive, with significant condensate yields.

These portfolio additions demonstrate how we continue to selectively capture future growth opportunities, remaining focused on value, adding assets that can sustain our strong financial performance. Now I will turn it back to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Turning to slide 18, George just provided an update on recent Upstream activity. Three milestones were met in the quarter in our Downstream business.

First, the Richmond refinery successfully restarted. By quarter end, the refinery was fully operational and running at planned utilization rates.

Second, GS Caltex's Yeosu refinery began commercial operations of the heavy oil upgrading unit, which now makes Yeosu one of the largest heavy oil upgraders in South Korea. This unit came online three months ahead of schedule.

Third, our Chemicals joint venture, Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, announced plans to expand its ethylene production at its Sweeny complex in Texas.

I will close by highlighting our continued strong performance on total shareholder return, as shown on this slide. We continue to lead the peer group by a significant margin, which shows we are executing well against the right strategies.

I would also like to point out the balanced manner in which our returns were achieved. We know the importance of not only providing returns via a competitive and growing dividend, but also from disciplined reinvestment in our business to generate future value.

We are fully committed to delivering disciplined growth and shareholder value. And our objective is to continue to lead the peer group on total shareholder returns for a long time to come.

We appreciate you listening in this morning and your interest in the Company, and now I would like to open the microphones for questions. We do have a full queue, so please limit yourself to one question and a single follow-up if necessary. We will do our best to see that we get all your questions answered.

Sean, please open up the lines.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes, hi, everyone. On the recent acquisition commitment in Argentina, it comes at a time when your CapEx is very elevated. And additionally, I think there has been some legal issues around the move.

Can you just underline for us why you're making a move like that at a time, as I said, when your CapEx is so elevated and where you're going to add some legal complexity that you probably really don't need? Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, Paul, it always starts back at -- what is the opportunity set out there and how does it compete in the future? We like the Vaca Muerta opportunity from a technical point of view. When you look at it technically, this opportunity, much of the shale is in the 1,000-foot range of thickness, so it is very attractive that way.

We've been in Argentina a long period of time so we understand, I think, Argentina quite well; so we feel comfortable that way. And we always have within our portfolio some ability to spend our money in different ways. We have the ability, because of our large base business programs, that we can move some monies around.

I go back to the other point would be that opportunities are there when they are available, and this one is available.

On the legal side, I would start off in saying, first off, we really don't believe there is any legitimate legal claim against us. So that is -- we are pretty confident about that. We think we're in a good position there.

Back on the development itself, we see this very much as a staged development over a long period of time. The initial work is 100 wells; and depending upon that success we will move forward from there.

We also see Argentina as a country that has got a large resource potential. We really believe that over the long period of time they can move from an importer to a potentially an exporter of crude.

And once again, the time for the opportunity was now.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, George, if I could ask a follow-up -- sorry, I was just going to follow on with you referenced, yourselves have referenced that this is a high-intensity period of CapEx with the two Australian LNG projects above all simultaneously in your queue. Can you talk about your longer-term CapEx and the potential to bring that down, with a view to generating more free cash flow?

Or are you intending to push through, to try and grow the Company beyond the existing 3.3 million barrel of oil equivalent target that you have for 2017? Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: First, Paul, I'm going to try to disconnect those two. They are not necessarily totally connected.

At our March meeting when we met in New York, we told people that we see a growth beyond 3.3 million. We did not disclose what that growth would be; it is a little premature to go there.

But we do see growth beyond that. One of the points that we talked about at that time was the growth that we saw that would be coming from our Future Growth Project and the Well Pressure Management Project in Tengiz. When we had originally committed to our 3.3 million, about 80,000 barrels a day of our growth to 2017 was related to the Tengiz expansion; and that project is not going to be online in 2017. So it contributes to significant growth.

And remember, the Tengiz project in total will add -- the expansion will add about 130,000 to 140,000 barrels a day of net production for Chevron. So we do see growth beyond 2017.

But likewise, we always see some projects that tend to move a little bit to the right, move a little bit later. So we take that money and invest it in other opportunities because we have a very strong portfolio.

I would tell you, as we get Gorgon and Wheatstone completed, those investments, we do not have anything as large in our portfolio on a capital expenditure basis as large as those. So from that perspective we will see some decline in our capital program in a relative sense.

But remember, we're also going to be a lot bigger in the barrel side. We will have a lot more barrels, so our cash flows will be high. We have got very strong margins, so we have got that combination to go forward.

So it's a combination of things that move around. But remember, portfolio, a lot of barrels, a lot of barrel growth, 25% growth, we're looking at holding our margins. Our margins which are industry-leading, we think we will hold them.

So we are going to have cash flow growth and a flattening -- and I would call it more a flattening -- of our capital program going forward.

PAUL SANKEY: Thanks, George, and thanks all of you. Thanks, George, for taking the time to come on the call.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Morning, everybody; and George, thanks for the update on the Upstream projects and clear on the free cash flow. My first question is on the Permian.

There has clearly been a lot of exciting industry results. You entered the Cimarex joint venture. I know you're building a technology center there.

Can you quantify it all for us the activity ramp or potential organic growth there in the basin, and how Chevron is building or expanding its Permian capabilities to run a bigger organization? And I have a follow-up.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Maybe I will start back with what we said in March of this year. We expect to drill over 300 wells in the Permian Basin, in the Midland Basin itself. We see growth in the Delaware Basin. Remember, we added the Chesapeake acreage in New Mexico to acreage we had already had there.

This recent Cimarex deal in the Permian is really bringing together a checkerboard of acreage of ours and Cimarex. Why do we do that? Well, we do that to increase efficiency and effectiveness of the dollars we spend.

We reduce geographic acreage loss, if you will. We can drill longer laterals. So it is just a much more efficient way to develop that acreage.

As we said in March we are going to see our rig count grow considerably over this period. I don't think we have done anything post-March that doesn't fit with the plans that we showed at the March meeting. Our plans are pretty consistent in that growth profile, both in acreage and in barrels.

We do expect that our net production to grow towards -- in the Permian Basin into that 200,000 barrels.

EVAN CALIO: But just any color --

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Go ahead.

EVAN CALIO: I just didn't know if there was any color on the technology center that you are building or people addition or just what investments you are making to build an infrastructure that would support more significant organic growth there.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We have committed to a tech center there. We are starting a building, a significant building project there, an office project. We have purchased land and moving forward with building that.

I would also tell you -- remember we have got a big support function for that unit also out of Houston. So I think we are in good shape on what we have in Midland and we have a strong commitment.

We've got lots of acreage. And Midland and the Permian Basin and the Delaware Basin are long-term assets for us. But I don't really have anything that is new beyond what we presented in March.

EVAN CALIO: That's fair. If I could, a second just quickly on Gorgon. Can you provide any update on cost trends or color since your guidance earlier in the year? Or when -- or what key milestones will trigger any cost update there?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, I would tell you we are always looking at the cost and watching the cost. We review the project once every month from my level and John Watson. We both have a project review once a month.

We look at progress, we look at cost, we look at issues, we look at mitigations that our project team are putting in place. And as you know, big project like this, there is always issues that people are solving problems. And our people are very good at that.

I mentioned today that we really think we have solved the issue around the logistics. That was important for us.

We're not going to know a lot more on cost till we get really much further in. We don't see any major disconnects at this point.

We see, as an example, the first half of the year exchange rates are really pretty close to what we assumed in our plan. The first part of the year the rates were higher than parity; the second quarter they were down; but for the year they are pretty close.

And now we are seeing a shift in exchange rates that are positive for us, with exchange rates coming down. And we are in a period where we have got major expenditures in Australia.

We've got a lot of moving parts there. So we can always tell where we have been a lot better than where everything is going. And any issues, once again we try to mitigate those as they go.

But I don't see anything major on the cost side. It is still back to productivity; and I will emphasize it is so critical to get productivity on Barrow Island.

And it is important for us to have good weather. Weather is an extremely important part of our success there, and we are in a good part of the year right now. Between now and December we are outside of major weather impacts.

So we are in a period that -- we get to December we will know an awful lot more. We are 67% now and every time you get a little bit closer towards 100%, you can do a lot better forecasting.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Always helpful, George. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Arjun Murti, Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. My thanks for the E&P update as well. Just a follow-up question on Kitimat, where you've now had some time to look at the project. I know the two big pieces are progressing the FEED, and then I think you mentioned you want to get 60%, 70% of the deal sold to long-term customers.

On that latter point, you now have Exxon with a big project in the area. I think Shell has got one. I am sure you don't want to give a bunch of specifics, though we'd certainly welcome them. But can you at all talk about how it is going in terms of marketing this?

I know there is a question as to whether there might be some linkage to Henry Hub. How are you feeling about Kitimat, and its position, and your ability to get that gas sold? Thank you.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, first off, I would say I think we have a considerable time lead versus any of the other developments in the BC region. This project has permits in place for export. It has approval and permits in place for the site.

We have got most of the agreements for the pipeline route with the First Nations. Matter of fact, I think 15 or 16 of the groups of First Nation have already agreed, so I think we are in quite a lead on the early part of the project.

We have also done a FEED -- a one-train FEED and we're now moved into a two-train FEED to build two trains there. We have been involved in that; so we do have more work on FEED but we are moving quite well on the FEED work.

So I'm going to go back once again. We are in a great, competitive spot on schedule. That should help us a lot in dealing with those that want to buy gas.

It puts our project in many ways ahead of others. So for the buyers that need gas sooner, we are in a very positive position.

We do not plan to have Henry Hub linkage. We expect the Henry Hub equivalent value will come through some equity sell-down.

We do plan to have partners as buyers; we're going to offer volumes, some volumes and interest in the plant as a combination. We think that is a big advantage.

We frankly think that is better than Henry Hub pricing. Henry Hub, like any index, has variability. Variability means it goes up or it can go down. And we believe that we can get the same or a better situation for a buyer through their participation, equity participation, in the Kitimat project.

We can do that because the two partners, us and Apache, each hold 50%. We hold very strong working interest in the plant and in the resources. So we have that ability to move that way.

So our goal is, of course, to maintain our advantage, first-mover advantage in that, but at the same time move the project at the right speed, having done all the appropriate technical work. And, once again, having all the commercial work done that gets us to a 60% to 70% position with regards to sales.

ARJUN MURTI: George, just -- I'm sorry, go ahead.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We have had some initial discussions with Asian buyers. We will not disclose the ones that we are talking with at this time, but we are moving that forward.

ARJUN MURTI: George, that is a very thorough and helpful update. Just a very quick follow-up in terms of the appropriate speed.

We have always thought of this as more likely to be a 2014 FID versus '13, which I think at one point had been talked about. I don't know if you can comment on that.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I wouldn't disagree that it is more likely to be a 2014 FID. Once again, we've got to have all the right work done. And what is critical for us -- and we are not progressing the project through FID until we have these agreements, at least at a HOA level for 60% to 70% of the gas. And we do believe it will take us into 2014 to get those completed.

ARJUN MURTI: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, thanks very much for all of the information this morning. Just coming to the offshore, it feels as if -- with a large position in the Permian and some of the LNG projects that you have -- that the rise in offshore rig rates and subsea costs might mean a shift in the portfolio. So I guess two questions.

One is, how are you mitigating the rise? What are your view on those offshore costs? And how much flexibility do you have to shift capital around to avoid that inflation? Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, everything depends upon the economics of the projects. In our portfolio, which is nice and large, we can move monies around.

I will tell you each one of these investments look a little bit different. If you look at a deepwater development, we end up with large wells on a production sense, high production rates, and because of that, huge upfront cash flows. These projects come in, they have relatively high DD&A rates; but you look at their operating expense, they are extremely low and they have very strong margins.

And it is back to economics. Now I will tell you that the cost structure in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico post-Macondo is higher. We have seen a 20% to 25% rise in the cost of wells.

I will tell you we are trying to offset that in many other ways. Technology is one way.

If you will remember, at our presentation in March this year and our recent press release, just around I think also in the March period, where we talked about the performance of our multizone single-trip frac pack. We had great success with that. It saved us anywhere from 20 to 50 days in the completion operations of our deepwater Lower Tertiary wells.

This multizone frac pack is a huge benefit for us in the cost side. In our original -- in our initial test of the well after that, we had very high rates.

So I'm going to take you back. It's back to -- what do we think we can get on a value proposition? We have got the people to do the work in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico. We have got the org capability also onshore.

And we will make choices on that, but it comes heavily back to the technical quality of the asset itself.

ED WESTLAKE: So, I mean other -- some people have deferred projects. But at the moment the rig rates in subsea are not expensive enough, given technology, for you to do the same. Is that what I am hearing?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Our view of Jack/St. Malo today on an economic basis is stronger than when we went to FID. Our project view is improved. As we learn more and more, particularly about the Lower Tertiary and our ability to change the recovery rates in the Lower Tertiary, we see this as a better and better opportunity.

Remember when the Jack/St. Malo, we talked only of about a 500 million barrel type recovery for those two fields, and that was an 8% to 10% recovery rate. We are focusing on those technologies that can change that recovery rate and potentially raise it up to over 20%. And when you have the infrastructure in place already, that additional production and additional recovery is, frankly, very economic.

But each one of them is a decision unto itself. We have to have confidence in how much we are going to produce. And we have to also have confidence -- and when we reach FID we do have confidence -- in how much we will spend to get that return.

ED WESTLAKE: Very clear. Thanks, George.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, George. Question for you, George. I want to ask you about portfolio capital intensity.

I guess what I am really trying to understand is, when you set the original target for 2017, the CapEx numbers have been creeping higher, but there is a lot of stuff coming into the portfolio, on the margin anyway, that wasn't in the original plan. For example, the Permian Basin.

So I am trying to understand what -- are things slipping to the right, as you mentioned in your prepared remarks? And is spending basically making up the difference?

And maybe just an order of magnitude. You're spending about 20% more than, I guess, your largest peer on a per-barrel basis. I am just curious if you could just give us some flavor as to whether or not you think that is a sustainable level of spend.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, let me go back and say there are things that we had talked about, and I gave the example of the future growth, the expansion at Tengiz as moving to the right. When it moved to the right, when it moved later, it did move capital that way also.

We look at these portfolio additions on the strength of them, and we don't only think about our investment ratios in a per-barrel basis. We are influenced heavily by the cash flow that these barrels give us.

That is back to -- I don't believe we would be investing for this much growth if we did not have the strength of portfolio to generate the cash. Our earnings per barrel and our cash flow per barrel that we are generating allows us on a cash flow basis to actually be investing much lower than many of our competitors.

So we are investing on a cash basis less than most. It is heavily influenced, of course, by the quality and the amount of cash that we are generating from these barrels.

I do believe that you are going to see our capital investment rate flatten with time, and it is really a function of the LNG projects that we are in today. We have got Gorgon and Wheatstone, which are very large. They build huge infrastructure and capacity for the future. They have very flat, long lives.

So we are building for them, with them -- I always tell people remember when Gorgon and Wheatstone together are on, that is over 400,000 barrels net per day for Chevron. Those are Company-sized assets.

DOUG LEGGATE: Maybe I could do my follow-up with Pat; it's a related question. Pat, you obviously have a lot of capital on the balance sheet that is not generating earnings right now. What is your expectation for that trend?

Does the proportion of capital rise or fall over the next several years? -- nonproducing capital, I mean. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. I think consistent with where George was going, you are absolutely right. We are sustaining a relatively high proportion of pre-productive capital, we call it, at the present time. You would expect that rate to be sustained high until you get projects like Gorgon and Wheatstone coming online.

Both of those two projects combined represent about $45 billion, Chevron's share of spending, over this seven-year period of time if you look at the construction period for both projects. So that is obviously a significant component.

And until you get those projects online we're going to have relatively high pre-productive capital. Once those projects become online then of course we anticipate that that proportionality will decline.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I would just like to make one additional addition to that. I'd take you back to the ROCE we have in our Upstream segment.

Yes, we do have a large capital employed that is not yet returning revenues and earnings. But even with that, you look at the return on the capital employed in total, we are leading in our segment.

So that tells you where we have invested in the performance of that portfolio is very strong. So it is back to, our ability to invest is driven heavily by the quality of the existing portfolio to generate cash flow where we can invest in these large growth projects, which are going to give us a 25% volume growth between now and 2017.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks for your answers, folks.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, guys. Good morning. George, maybe a little bit of this from a strategic standpoint. You've been looking at Kitimat, in order for it to become a really great project, you probably look beyond just Train 1 or 2. Don't know whether that you really have sufficient gas resource up there yourself. So strategically then, how Chevron, you look at it?

So you will be just essentially say -- okay, I have gas resource for the first two train, and I get it going; and then subsequently I would just be the owner of the train and not necessarily need to be the owner of the natural gas, and just process other peoples' gas. Or that you actually think that it is important for you guys to be fully integrated.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, the second point first. I think it is very important to be fully integrated and to have the resource. Our view is being tempered at this point in time because we haven't been in the project as long as Apache has.

But I take you back to the view that Apache is on the press with and what they view Liard and Horn River. Their view of Liard alone is approximately 50 Tcf of gas. So if you take 50 Tcf of gas, and you take Horn River and Liard, you've got something greater than that.

That is much more gas than is needed for a two-train plant. A two-train plant is more likely to be in the 15 T of gas required.

Bottom line, we are not short of gas at all in the Kitimat development. Our issue is to get foundation customers and the foundation project in place, and then find a way to -- the next step is to look at the expansions.

I don't want to spend a lot of time on the expansions yet until we really get past having the first two trains, once again, sold from a market point of view, and then get them post-FID.

PAUL CHENG: Right. But I think, I guess my question is that in the event if that those huge number that talk by Apache did not materialize and end up to be smaller, you still will need that to have an integrate model, that including the ownership in the resource.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Yes, I think we need that to have surety of the supply to feed the plant. So we are quite confident at this point for the first two trains. We have done enough work that our confidence is high in that there is a large volume of gas there.

We have lots of appraisal work that will be done in Liard to confirm those volumes as we go forward. But I will tell you, all my engagement with our partner, our partner is quite confident in the quality of this resource.

PAUL CHENG: The second one. George, can you give us some rough idea that based on your drilling results, how is the [inaudible] split, whether it's frac oil, condensate, or NGL? What kind of split we are talking about in the Permian Basin that you are drilling right now as well as in Utica?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I can give you a lot more on what we are seeing in the Permian Basin. We are focusing on the portion of the basin that we see greater than 50% liquids. And when I say 50% liquids, looking at really the oil and condensate side. LNGs -- pardon me, LPG is not what I am speaking of.

So it is really -- it's over 50% OEG in liquid, the oil and condensate side. That is why we like it so much. That really carries a lot of value.

In the Utica, I am not really prepared to give you those numbers. I will just simply take you back to what I said in my prepared comments for today, that we are pleased with what we see.

We have had about 30 days of production test, production run actually on the first two wells. It is a little early to speak on that, and we should be prepared a little bit later in the third quarter to give a little bit more information on the Utica.

But like I say it is just a little bit early. I would also tell you probably at the same time we would be prepared to speak a little bit more about the Duvernay in Canada, because it is once again also a liquid play, and we have just closed on this additional 67,000 acres up in the Duvernay.

I would tell you also maybe as a general comment, what we try to do everywhere is to have a big anchor position like in the Permian Basin, and then build additional acreage around it before we disclose all our results. So it only makes sense for us not to get our disclosures out in front of where we are trying to move from a commercial point of view.

We feel very good about where we are in the Permian Basin. And my expectation is if we have other opportunities like Cimarex, we will make those happen, too.

But we like very much to get a nice position, build that position, and it is particularly nice to build that position after you truly understand the subsurface. You understand how the rocks are and really how much of the volume is going to be oil or gas.

PAUL CHENG: [Inaudible] Permian is primarily frac oil or just primarily condensate for you?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: The Permian is primarily oil.

PAUL CHENG: Frac oil for you. Thank you.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: But light oil.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Yes, thank you. I just wanted to follow up on LNG marketing, which has been raised by a few others. When you think about putting Kitimat into the marketplace, how do you contrast that with the potential for brownfield expansions at your Australian projects? How do you prioritize getting one into the market versus the other?

And then just related to that, what is your sense of urgency in getting volumes into the market right now, given that there are projects moving forward pretty quickly in both East Africa and on the US Gulf Coast?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: A lot of questions there, Jason. I will try to hit those.

I will start off with contrasting maybe our Gorgon Train 4 versus what we have at Kitimat. First difference is scale, and to the buyer we have a bigger offering of volume. We have 11 million tons with two trains, and we are doing the joint marketing. So we have 11 million tons there on offer that will be available.

And once again we want to have 60% to 70%. And we would be willing, very much, to move up to the 80% at the time of startup.

In the case of Gorgon Train 4, it is a 5.2 million ton per annum additional train. The difference there is also the gas coming out of Gorgon is marketed by each of the partners. We will be marketing about 47% of the gas, and ExxonMobil and Shell each have about 25%. So it is a much smaller volume to move for us.

The plus for Gorgon is you are brownfield, so you have got an advantage on the plant side. Depending upon where we are going in Asia, there is no difference in transportation, in distance and cost, from going to Kitimat or coming from Australia.

It actually -- depending on where you are going, if it's in North Asia, there may be a slight advantage for Kitimat, so it could be a positive for us there. But volumetrically, it is positive.

We do think from a development cost, the development cost to Kitimat on the Upstream, may end up being less than in the case of Gorgon. Gorgon has the benefit of the brownfield on the plant side.

There we have, we think, more control on the Kitimat project because of the partnership. We have 50% there and I think a very aligned partner.

And we are jointly selling the gas as I mentioned. In the case of Gorgon Train 4 three companies are selling the gas, so there is a different alignment there.

We're happy to see both of them move. There are a little bit of a horse race between them at this point in our own shop.

East Africa I didn't mention and I thank people here for reminding me. I actually see East Africa behind both of these projects. I don't believe East Africa, from my perspective, yet has an operator that is in place or a unit that has been created to move that project forward.

So I think we do have a timing advantage on both of those projects to first gas. Gorgon we know we've got all the gas. Kitimat we are confident we've got all the gas for two trains. So I think we have a little bit of an advantage there.

And we do know our fiscal regime and regulatory regime in both the locations in which we operate very clearly.

PAT YARRINGTON: I think we have time for a couple more questions.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Yes, hi, there. Pat, could I ask you a question actually about the share buyback? You said earlier you are moving into more of a net debt position going forward. You are obviously spending both on CapEx and dividends significantly more than you are generating in cash flow at the moment, and the buyback is accelerating that process into net debt.

At what point do you think the buyback has done its job in terms of that process? Have you got a target level of gearing which you are aiming for? And when can we think about you perhaps scaling this back over the next several quarters? Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: It is a good question. I think I have explained before how we look at share buybacks, and it really is -- we try to take a medium-term point of view. We take a look at what is happening to commodity prices. We look at what our opportunity for reinvestment in the business is.

We look at, obviously, a growing dividend profile that we want to make sure comes right off the top. We want to maintain flexibility in our financial structure.

And after we have done that equation, if there are funds left over that is when we fall into the share repurchase category. We do want to take -- we have tried to take a more medium-term point of view here and not be in and out of the market just depending upon instantaneous circumstances in a given quarter.

We do not have a targeted leverage ratio for the Corporation. We look at the leverage ratio really as being an outcome of these other decisions that we have made.

And we have tremendous additional leverage capacity, as you well know. If we are sitting here today with a 12% debt ratio, we have a long way to go before being overlevered becomes one of our problems.

So I think you can consider when you look out and forecast your own commodity prices and take a look at the development stream that we have got available to us, and you look at our past practice on dividend streams, you can put together a cash flow model. We have a long way to go before net debt becomes a challenge for us.

IAIN REID: Okay. Thanks for that. Can I just ask one very quick question for George? On Brazil, George, you talked about Frade coming gradually back onstream. But in that growth profile you are showing for the second half of the year, is Papa-Terra in there?

And also I wonder if you could also comment on Chevron's view of the pre-salt round coming up in Brazil?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Okay. Frade as you said is part of that addition in the second half. We had no production in Frade in the first quarter; second quarter it averaged about 5,000 barrels a day, our share. The month of June, we were closer to 10,000 barrels a day, our share.

So there is some expectation there that we will grow in the second half, or we will have more volume in the second half on Frade. Not too far off from our original plan; the field is performing at this point pretty well, so that is a plus.

On the case of Papa-Terra, Papa-Terra may come on production this year, but it is not going to be a significant mover on production. Petrobras is still talking about bringing it on this year. But it is late in the year, so we do not believe that it will be significant mover on our production for the year.

With regards to the deepwater round, as on all our exploration opportunities, we review the opportunity set and we never disclose upfront what we think of it. We always talk about what we did afterward and give more color at that point in time.

IAIN REID: Okay, George. Thanks very much.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you. I think we've got one more -- time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, guys. Good afternoon. Just on the key exploration wells and acreage additions, it seems like you guys definitely added a good amount of acreage during the year and in a few bolt-on acquisitions. Can you just give us an idea of what the -- how much of that, of your capital budget, has that made up and what is your appetite going forward?

And then I just have one follow-up on the Downstream side.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Right offhand, I would have to do a little bit of work, because I think about 25% or 30% of our monies are outside of our focus areas on the drilling side. So it is in that range.

We like to keep -- in the past, we have tried to push usually as much as 80%. So we are more in the 70% this year in our focus areas.

And that's -- once again, I haven't looked at the numbers exactly where we are for the year. But the plan was we were going to be a little bit lighter in our focus areas this year.

Our appetite is driven by a couple of things. It is, of course, the amount of money we have to spend and also the scale and the quality of the opportunity.

It starts very much with the quality of the rock. If the rock doesn't work, we don't view the risk and the scale of the opportunity to be attractive. We don't go there.

So it is not about acreage, it is about quality.

Preferentially, if possible, we like to be in a low-cost option situation, i.e., we like to get a nice piece of acreage with a seismic obligation and minimal or low numbers of wells to drill. That is particularly the case in these test areas, these areas outside of our focus areas.

We don't want to get saddled with a really large program and then drill a high-risk well and find out it is not very attractive. So, we tend to try to do that everywhere around the world.

And a lot of these opportunities that we have moved into recently are very much structured that way. Not a large amount of cost on upfront entry, and they have seismic obligations, and small drilling obligations to answer really the geological question.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, got it. Just on the Downstream earnings results, first focused on the US Downstream results. If I extract out the Chemicals earnings, which I guess we can get that through Phillips 66, it seems like US Downstream earnings are basically breakeven, in even first quarter and second quarter. And given the refining position and marketing position you guys have I would have thought that there would be a lot more profitability out of these assets.

So can you give us an idea of how these assets are going to deliver that level of profitability? I know you have talked about Richmond being down and also some of the environmental expenses associated with that. But can you talk about how this -- taking out Chemicals, how does US Downstream perform in the way it probably should?

PAT YARRINGTON: All right. Faisel, I think the key item is one that you already mentioned for our performance in the first half, and it does have to do with unit downtime. If I look at the first six months of this year and look at what our utilization rates were for our -- this will be worldwide, but it's obviously heavily influenced by the assets that we have in the US. If I look at our operated utilization rate for the first half, it is running a good 10 points or so below what you would have seen on average for the 2011 or 2012 time period.

That is a big penalty to absorb from an earnings standpoint.

As we go forward and we look at the second half of the year, I did mention that Richmond is up and fully operational. But as we look at the second half of the year, the vast majority of our downtime is already in the rearview window at this point. So I think going forward if we can run reliably then you will have much better outcome.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, great. Thanks for the time. Appreciate it.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Well, I think that concludes the call for the day and I appreciate everybody's interest in listening in today. And I particularly appreciate the questions that came in from the analysts. Sean, I will turn it back over to you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's second-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130809e982006pp
  


 HD
 Q1  2013  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,311 words
   PD
26 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

   TD
PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Okay, good morning, everyone and thank you, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today is Jeff Gustavson, General Manager, Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's first-quarter earnings were $6.2 billion, or $3.18 per diluted share. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 18%. Our debt ratio at the end of March was approximately 9%. In the first quarter, we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares. In the second quarter, we expect to repurchase the same amount.

Turning to slide 4, this week, Chevron's Board of Directors declared a $1 per share quarterly common stock dividend payable in mid-June. This is an 11% increase and reflects the performance and strength of our current portfolio and our confidence in our compelling growth prospects. Since 2004, our dividend has grown at a compound annual rate of 11%, a growth rate that is well in excess of the S&P 500 and better than our peers. You can see this on the left chart. This pattern demonstrates the priority we place on rewarding our investors through increasing distributions.

The chart on the right provides updated information on five-year rolling total return to shareholders through the end of the first quarter. Our strong financial and operational performance and superior growth prospects for both production and value are being recognized by the market. We have led on this rolling total shareholder return for an extended period of time now and we are off to a strong start in 2013.

Turning to slide 5, cash generated from operations was $5.7 billion during the first quarter, a lower level than it had been in some time. This was primarily the result of working capital impacts. Overall, working capital requirements for the Company increased by $3.4 billion in the quarter. This working capital consumption of cash was principally in our Downstream operations. This is not an atypical pattern for us for the first quarter of the year; though this quarter's increase in working capital requirements is larger than we have usually seen.

The increase reflects the timing and pricing of commodity purchases and sales between quarters, as well as the operational downtime we had at several refineries this quarter. The vast majority of these effects are temporary in nature and the impacts to cash flow are expected to reverse in future quarters.

Importantly, our Upstream business continues to generate strong cash flows. Capital and exploratory expenditures were $8.2 billion during the quarter, including expenditures associated with our buy-in to the Kitimat LNG project.

We continue to maintain a strong balance sheet, and at quarter-end cash balances exceeded $19 billion giving us a net cash position of almost $5 billion. Jeff will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.

JEFF GUSTAVSON, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 6, I will compare results of the first quarter 2013 with the fourth quarter of 2012. As a reminder, our earnings release compares first quarter 2013 with the same quarter a year ago.

First-quarter earnings were $6.2 billion, about $1 billion lower than fourth-quarter results. Upstream earnings were down $942 million, reflecting the absence of fourth-quarter asset transaction gains, partly offset by higher realizations and a favorable swing in foreign currency effects. Downstream results decreased $224 million between quarters driven by lower volumes largely associated with seasonal maintenance activity and the absence of fourth-quarter asset transactions, partly offset by a positive swing in foreign currency effects. The variance in the Other bar largely reflects lower corporate charges.

On slide 7, our US Upstream earnings for the first quarter were $231 million lower than fourth quarter's results. Higher realizations improved earnings by $95 million, driven largely by an increase in crude oil prices. Lower production volumes decreased earnings by $80 million mainly due to increased maintenance activity in the Gulf of Mexico and fewer producing days in the quarter. The net of higher DD&A and lower operating expenses reduced earnings by $85 million. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including the absence of favorable tax effects and gains on small asset transactions in the fourth quarter.

Turning to slide 8, International Upstream earnings were $711 million lower than the fourth quarter. Earnings increased approximately $130 million due to higher realizations, partly offset by lower liftings. A favorable swing in foreign currency effects improved earnings by about $200 million. The first quarter had a gain of $170 million compared to a loss of $30 million in the fourth quarter. Lower operating expenses increased earnings by about $200 million between periods, primarily due to reduced maintenance activities and employee costs. The Other bar reflects a number of items, including favorable tax effects in addition to lower exploration expenses. Finally, earnings decreased by about $1.5 billion between quarters, primarily due to the absence of the gain on the Browse asset exchange recognized during the fourth quarter.

Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Production decreased 23,000 barrels per day between quarters. Lower-cost recoveries on production-sharing contracts spread across multiple countries reduced production by about 16,000 barrels per day. This is an investment timing issue, which we noted in our interim update. The Base Business and Other bar includes the impact of planned turnaround activity, weather disruptions and normal field declines. Contributions from major capital projects increased first-quarter production by 9,000 barrels per day, primarily driven by Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico and Platong II in Thailand.

Turning to slide 10, US Downstream earnings fell $196 million between periods. Lower volumes reduced earnings by $190 million, primarily due to planned maintenance at the Pascagoula, Mississippi and El Segundo, California refineries. First quarter 2013 was a particularly heavy refinery maintenance period for the Company. Maintenance at both Pascagoula and El Segundo has now been successfully completed. We also reintroduced feedstock to our Richmond refinery crude unit earlier this week and will continue bringing the Downstream conversion units to full capacity over the coming days.

Weaker margins decreased earnings by $65 million. Seasonally weak demand, particularly for gasoline, combined with rising crude costs pressured refining and marketing margins. The Other bar reflects several miscellaneous items, including lower operating expenses, higher chemical earnings and the absence of year-end LIFO inventory drawdown benefits that were recognized last quarter.

On slide 11, International Downstream earnings were $28 million lower this quarter. Lower volumes reduced earnings by $75 million, primarily due to planned maintenance at the Burnaby, Canada and Cape Town, South Africa refineries. Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $95 million, reflecting lower transportation and environmental expenses. Foreign currency effects represented a $175 million positive earnings variance between quarters. First quarter's FX gain was about $75 million compared to a fourth-quarter loss of $100 million. Gains on asset transactions were $135 million lower, reflecting the absence of prior quarter asset sales. The Other bar again reflects a number of unrelated items, including lower shipping results, weaker lubricants margins and higher withholding and other tax-related charges.

Slide 12 covers all other. This segment broadly consists of corporate administrative functions, our worldwide cash management and financing activities, as well as our mining, power generation, real estate and energy technology and services businesses. First-quarter net charges were $439 million compared to $538 million in the fourth quarter, a decrease of $99 million between periods. A favorable swing in corporate charges resulted in a $111 million benefit to earnings while corporate tax items were $12 million higher this quarter. With that, I would now like to turn it back to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, now turning to slide 13, last month, we held our annual Security Analysts Meeting where we provided updates on our projects and future growth plans, as well as our financial performance relative to our key competitors. We now have fully updated relative performance data in a couple of areas -- segment returns on capital employed and Upstream cash margins.

First, our Upstream adjusted return on capital employed was 21.5% for 2012 and we can confirm this placed us in the number one position relative to our major peers for the second year in a row. We completed the restructuring of our Downstream business and our adjusted return on capital employed in 2012 improved again to over 18%. Here, we rank a strong number two against our peers and we have been closing the gap versus the leader for each of the last five years.

Slide 14 shows our updated Upstream cash margin comparison. We have led the peer group in Upstream realizations for several years, a trend which continued in 2012. Combined with our competitive cost structure and the quality of our portfolio, we also continued to lead the peer group on unit cash margin. In fact, our cash margin of just under $37 per barrel exceeded the average cash margin for our peer group by $11 per barrel, or over 40%. This superior performance is a function of the quality of our assets, as well as our strong execution capabilities.

Turning to slide 15, I would like to share some highlights of the strategic progress we have made during the quarter. We announced successful well test results at St. Malo in the US deepwater Gulf of Mexico where oil flow rates, while limited by testing equipment constraints, exceeded 13,000 barrels per day. With new technology, we saw drilling efficiencies and good reservoir stimulation and this bodes well for improving the recoveries and the economics on our existing and future Gulf of Mexico projects.

The Big Foot hull has arrived in the Gulf of Mexico and the Jack/St. Malo hull is on its way. The picture is of the Jack hull being transported. We announced the signing of a binding long-term sales and purchase agreement with Chubu Electric to deliver 1 million tons per year of LNG from the Wheatstone project. Our Wheatstone LNG project has over 80% of its offtake secured under long-term sales contracts.

In the Downstream, a new gas oil cracker achieved startup making the Yeosu refinery in South Korea the largest processor of heavy oil in that country.

We continue to be successful with our exploration program with new discoveries at Coronado in the US deepwater Gulf of Mexico and in Australia's Carnarvon Basin where we announced discoveries at Kentish Knock South and the Elfin-1 prospect. The Elfin-1 prospect is our 21st discovery since 2009.

We added new offshore exploration acreage in both Morocco and China. We also reached an agreement to enter the Cooper Basin in Australia, another early low-cost entry opportunity focused on unconventional resources. And finally, we recently sanctioned the Moho Nord development located in the Republic of Congo, the largest ever oil and gas development in that country.

I would like to close by saying we are off to a great start in 2013. Earnings are strong. Upstream activity is on plan, not only in terms of production, but also in terms of executing well against our major development project milestones. I encourage you to visit our investor website where we recently posted updated photos of our progress on our Gorgon and Wheatstone projects.

We also continue to pursue future profitable growth opportunities, which will create additional value for our shareholders over time. Our healthy dividend growth pattern remains in place. This marks our 101st year of paying dividends and our 26th consecutive year of growing our annual dividend distributions. We continue to provide the strongest returns to shareholders, offering a good balance between share price appreciation and dividend yield.

We truly appreciate you listening in this morning and your interest in the Company. I would like to now open up the microphones for questions. We do have a full queue, so please limit yourself to one question and a single follow-up, if necessary. We'll certainly do our best to see that we get all your questions answered. Sean, please open up the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hey, good morning, Pat. Just a quick question on the tax rate, if I may. Obviously, it dropped down to 39.3% and you flagged favorable tax rates in some of the commentary. Are there any sort of structural changes here in terms of shifts or is this just tax optimization in the quarter?

PAT YARRINGTON: There is nothing structural here, Ed. As you probably know that as certain projects mature and particularly as they get to the FID stage, it is not unusual to have certain tax impacts triggered by reaching that project milestone and that is really what we saw occurring here in the first quarter. That is what gave us a low effective tax rate in first quarter '13. We expect this to balance out over the end of the year, and so I think from a longer-term perspective, thinking back to the 2012 effective tax rate, which is about 43%, that is a pretty reasonable place for you to peg the overall expectation for the year.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks. That's very helpful. And then just switching topics. On natural gas in the US, obviously, a bit of benefit from Marcellus and Atlas over the last couple of quarters, but the gas price, I guess, it has rebounded a little bit. Should we expect that gas production probably trends down a little bit as it started to in the first quarter as you go through the balance of the year?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I think what we have said in the past that we have really restricted all of our dry gas production to minimal amounts, principally in the Marcellus area. And of course, we are being helped there economically by the carry that is still in place. All the rest of our gas production efforts really are geared towards heavy liquids concentration efforts and so we should continue to see those ramp up.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay, thanks. Very helpful. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, good morning, Pat and Jeff.

PAT YARRINGTON: Good morning, Evan.

EVAN CALIO: Let me ask maybe a longer-term question of how you think about the longer-term CapEx and cash return strategy. I ask it in the context of my view Chevron's relative free cash flow in flex in 2014, '15 time period as you begin to see the cash benefit of these relatively heavier and current period of capital investment. And the question hence becomes do you believe that when you likely have incremental cash during this period, the cash returns to shareholders via buybacks or dividends increase or that you see additional reinvestment opportunities in the portfolio to maybe replicate this '14 to '17 growth period? How do you think about that?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, well, I would say broadly -- I mean, first of all, we believe the best way over time that we create value for our shareholders is by making the right investment choices. And if we have a strong queue, if we have projects that are very nicely attractive, nicely economic, then obviously that is an important element for us. We have been in a stage where we have had very nicely attractive projects and so that is really what has given rise to the heavy investment period of time.

We do take our dividend commitment to our shareholders very, very seriously. That is the first priority of return of distributions to the shareholders. So you should expect that to continue to grow as long as earnings and cash flows continue to grow and we, of course, are able to grow earnings and cash flows if we invest appropriately.

So we've worked very hard at trying to get that balance right between attractive projects for reinvestment in the business and then also dividend distributions to the shareholders. If we get into periods of time where we have surplus cash, free cash flow beyond the C&E requirement, beyond the dividend requirement, that is really what we peg our share repurchase program to distribute. And we look at that every quarter. We evaluate what we think kind of the medium-term requirements for the firm are in terms of reinvestment. We obviously have a hypothesis about what our Board might do on dividends. We look at what we think is happening from a commodity price standpoint and therefore, what net generation into the firm might be and that is how we peg our share repurchases. It is the most flexible element of our cash distribution formula.

EVAN CALIO: Understood. I mean let me try maybe kind of one different way if I could. I mean like the percentage of CAPM that is invested in the project queue, that is not anything I need to know about today, is relatively higher than where it has been historically. I think you gave a 35% number at the Analyst Day. And I know there are a lot of variabilities, but under current conditions, would you expect that to normalize back into this 25% to 30% range once you are exiting this kind of peak spending period through call it the 2015 timeframe? I will leave it at that. Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, and I think the best guidance I can give you on that would be to have you take a look at the duration of the investment cycles for some of the projects that we have underway. When you were talking about LNG projects, and, of course, we have got Gorgon and Wheatstone underway, we have Kitimat, which is just in the very, very embryonic stage here, but those have very long investment cycles, 60 months plus. That is much different than what you would get in sort of the factory investment types of cycles that you might achieve in say a Permian rampup, for example.

So I think you need to look at the kinds of projects that we have in our queue and the overall investment cycle times for those projects in the queue. And that is going to give you an indication of how much pre-productive capital we might have built up on our balance sheet at any point in time.

I did say back in March that our pre-productive capital was in the high 30s and that is an abnormally high level for us and so all things being equal, once you get through the heavy spend period, we would expect that to come down as long as we don't have another set of projects moving forward. We do try to balance this all out, and in the end I think we have certainly demonstrated a history of doing that, being able to do that successfully, because our project queue has been -- is very economic and is producing the returns that we are benefiting from from a cash flow standpoint and our investors are benefiting from from a distribution standpoint.

EVAN CALIO: Great, thanks. I appreciate it.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Arjun Murti, Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. A question on the Cooper Basin. When we were over in Perth last fall some time, Chevron did not sound particularly excited about some of the East Coast LNG opportunities, the stuff over in Queensland. Just curious whether this Cooper Basin entry signals any change to that view. Maybe I misread it.

PAT YARRINGTON: I wouldn't read too much into it. I think we were talking very broadly back in the fall. And as a general rule, as a company, we are always on the lookout for what I would consider low-cost, early entry opportunities and that is really what the Cooper Basin represents. It is a very new play. I can't really indicate how that may, in fact, turn out for us. We just think it was an opportunity to expand our unconventional portfolio and there is an awful lot of work that will need to be done to evaluate the basin. But we are hopeful that something could turn out there. I think you need to think of it as low-cost entry and very early in the evaluation phase.

ARJUN MURTI: Got it. That's helpful, Pat. Thank you. And just a quick follow-up. Any update on the timing of Angola LNG startup and Frade startup? Thank you very much.

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure. So on Angola LNG, our expectation is that we will have first LNG here in the second quarter. Assuming that happens, then we would expect them to get to full capacity by year-end. And again assuming that things move as we think they will, it is probably going to add to us about 20,000 barrels a day for the full year. Obviously, that would just be a partial year contribution for us. It is worth about 60,000 barrels a day net to us when fully operational.

From a Frade standpoint, we have received approval for a production restart for four wells basically, no injection activity and that should be here in the second quarter as well. But it will be ramping up relatively slowly and so the contribution for the year will be relatively modest, only about 5,000 barrels a day.

ARJUN MURTI: That's great. Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, good morning, everyone. Pat, just a quick one. Were there some tax changes in Kazakhstan as it relates to exports is the first one? And the bigger one which you may be able to answer or not is can you talk a little bit about the sensitivity of your CapEx levels to the dollar, to appreciation in the dollar? I assume that an appreciating dollar would bring down your global CapEx. I wondered if you had a sense for sensitivities. Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. So the first answer is no, the tax change didn't relate to Kazakhstan. And versus the -- in terms of our capital program, we are really most sensitive to movements from a capital program standpoint to the Australian dollar versus the US dollar. And I think we have explained in the past that, yes it has been a component -- we have had higher foreign exchange impacts that was part of the Gorgon cost increase up to $52 billion. About a third of that increase from the original FID number was related to foreign exchange effects, so that has impacted us there. This year, it has really been much more modest than that and as we have said in the past, we haven't hedged against the Australian dollar or hedged the Gorgon or Wheatstone activities because usually the Australian dollar is moving with commodity prices and usually that means that we have got a natural hedge.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, I was just kind of wondering because I guess if the dollar strengthens globally, it would tend to imply that the oil price would come down, but clearly what you're saying is the main sensitivity by far is the Aussie dollar.

PAT YARRINGTON: That is exactly right.

PAUL SANKEY: Not, for example, the euro wouldn't make a whole lot of difference either way.

PAT YARRINGTON: Not from a C&E standpoint, no.

PAUL SANKEY: I thought I had read -- by the way, going back to the first question -- that Kazakhstan had changed its export tariffs. Was I just wrong?

JEFF GUSTAVSON: No, Paul, this is Jeff. That is correct. They did increase the export tax, but our assets are not affected by the increase. Our netbacks are not impacted.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you. That's perfect.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: We are looking forward a couple years to some very substantial stepups in production, but we don't really hear you talk much about portfolio high-grading. Is that something that just really you are very happy with the asset base you have now or is there an ongoing effort to pare, if you like, the bottom 10% of the portfolio on a regular basis? And I have got a follow-up please.

PAT YARRINGTON: I would say that we have a standard practice of paring components of our portfolio, and I am speaking here about the Upstream, paring components of our portfolio where we find that it is not going to continue to attract the capital that it needs to perform well where we feel others might find more value in that asset. So we will continue to do that paring. I think about a year and a half ago or so, I'm a little shy on the timing, but fourth quarter last year -- I think it was '11 the Cook Inlet sale occurred. So that is just a good example of continued paring of the portfolio.

I will say, on balance, we are very happy with our portfolio because you see it in our earnings margins and you see it in our cash margins. So on balance, we like the assets that we have. But having said that, we obviously look for opportunities to pare if we think the asset has more value to somebody else and it is not going to compete in our portfolio.

DOUG LEGGATE: But it doesn't sounded particularly material, how does that fit your assessment?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think that is true, that is fair. Normally, you can expect for the enterprise somewhere between $1 billion and $3 billion of asset sales in a given year. Over the last few years more recently, we have had a little bit heavier restructuring occurring in our Downstream segment. And so that effort is largely behind us and so you wouldn't expect that continuing size to go forward in 2013.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great. My follow-up is really -- I guess it's kind of a related issue. We monitor your, if you like, capture rate on your Upstream business and for most of the last year, it was, I won't give numbers, but let's assume it was relatively low and in Q1, we have seen a big jump in your international margins relative to your weighted revenues, if you like. Has something changed there? Was it an absence of maintenance that is more sustainable going forward or to Paul's point, has there been any kind of incremental tax changes that have led to that rebound? I am just trying to understand how sustainable this might be on a go-forward basis because it was quite a significant number relative to what you were expecting.

PAT YARRINGTON: You are talking about our Upstream --

DOUG LEGGATE: International margins.

PAT YARRINGTON: -- Upstream International margins? Right. I think that really when you look at 2012, if you look at the whole quarterly pattern for 2012, we had a significant deterioration in the third quarter really associated with the downtime at TCO. And now we have really just moved back up into what would be a more normal pattern. And that impact of the downturn in the third quarter and the reramping back up here in the fourth quarter you can see in last year's result.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. That's great. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: We are back to a more normal position for us.

DOUG LEGGATE: That is what I need. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, ISI Group.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Congratulations on your results, everybody.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thanks, Doug.

DOUG TERRESON: Pat, I wanted to see if you would provide an update on the situation in Argentina and also the plan or next steps for Kurdistan for 2013, if there are any.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Well, Argentina, we continued to work with YPF on the Vaca Muerta discussion. We are hopeful that that will be able to be concluded. So far, we have drilled about three shale wells on our existing acreage and we are encouraged by the results that we have there. There are some above-ground complications, I guess I would say, that exist in Ecuador as they relate to Ecuador and we need to have satisfactory resolution of those above-ground complications before we proceed in a material way on Vaca Muerta.

DOUG TERRESON: Yes, and, Pat, can you just provide a little color on that point?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Well, basically Ecuador --.

DOUG TERRESON: You don't have to go that far back. Just kind of the next steps I guess legally that you guys envision.

PAT YARRINGTON: On the Ecuador -- on the overall Ecuador case?

DOUG TERRESON: Yes -- No, no, no, just the Argentina component.

PAT YARRINGTON: Or on Argentina?

DOUG TERRESON: I'm sorry, yes.

PAT YARRINGTON: Argentina, okay. So right now, there is a -- I guess I would call it a partial freeze of assets in Ecuador.

DOUG TERRESON: Sure.

PAT YARRINGTON: It really hasn't impacted our liquidity in a substantial way. We have been able to modify our liquidity provisions and so operationally, we are in good shape. There is a freeze underway. We have -- we are basically petitioning to the Supreme Court in Argentina to have them review that case. I don't know when the Supreme Court may take it up or if they will take it up. We are certainly hopeful that they will take it up.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.

PAT YARRINGTON: We don't believe that there is any merit to having the freeze in place and we believe in a country that abides by the rule of law that kind of justice will prevail on this element as well.

DOUG TERRESON: Great, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Thank you. I just wanted to ask a couple of follow-up questions on the exploration success in the quarter. First of all, on Coronado, you're obviously in a pretty good neighborhood there. Can you talk about any follow-on drilling plans that you have? I believe that you are about to spud a sidetrack or maybe already have spud a sidetrack on the discovery well.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I mean -- not really sure what I want to be saying here on Coronado. I mean we do like the area. Let's see here.

JEFF GUSTAVSON: So we are still evaluating that, Jason. We have to spud a sidetrack on it.

PAT YARRINGTON: But there is not much more that we really want to say at this point.

JEFF GUSTAVSON: No, not right now. So it is still under evaluation.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, that's fine. And then maybe if I could just shift to the Australian exploration success. Obviously between drilling results and then the swap that you had with Shell for Carnarvon basin versus Browse basin, quite a bit of incremental gas. Now you have talked about being able to move into Gorgon FEED for Train 4 relatively soon. But given the gas you have accumulated, when do you think you could actually start evaluating a Train 3 at Wheatstone?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I think that is more distant certainly. I think we need to get Trains 1 and 2 up and moving forward. We are only the second year into that whole development construction phase here for Wheatstone. So I think it will come. It is a hugely prolific area, as you know and with both the Kentish Knock and Elfin-1 prospects, I mean we just continue to add. And so the more that whole region continues to add to our gas holdings, then it gives us more flexibility about which particular gas molecule we send to which particular plant. So I think you should think of it as after discussions around Train 4 for Gorgon for any further expansion of Wheatstone.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, that's helpful. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, guys. Nigeria GTL, are we still on track for the year-end startup and based on your experience with the GTL, I presume that you are probably not interested in the GTL plant in the US natural gas market?

PAT YARRINGTON: So with regard to EGTL, we are in the process here of commissioning the plant. It is a complex plant and the commissioning activities really go on for the bulk of this year, for the rest of this year. I would say we don't see -- GTL would not rank high in terms of our project alternatives for US natural gas.

PAUL CHENG: And in Nigeria, Pat, the production dropped a little bit, but we thought Usan should continue to be ramping up. Is there any PSC effect related to Nigerian production or your just natural underlying decline rate?

PAT YARRINGTON: No, there is no PSC effects there. I mean --.

JEFF GUSTAVSON: Well, I would say there are some cost recovery effects there, Paul, so investment levels were slightly lower between quarters and so we had lower cost to all barrels.

PAT YARRINGTON: And that is really a timing issue, not anything more sustaining than that. Timing of investments and therefore the timing of cost recovery barrels.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Can I just sneak in a real quick one for clarification? On the favorable tax impact for the international E&P, do you have an absolute dollar amount in the first quarter? You showed in the chart saying that sequentially it is a benefit of $214 million. What is the absolute dollar amount in the first quarter?

PAT YARRINGTON: We are not going to disclose that. Again, I think the important point about this is to understand that that was a timing event associated with moving some projects through various project milestones and the taxes that are triggered commensurate with that. For the overall year, you should think about the overall effective rate for the Company of being in the low 40%.

PAUL CHENG: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning. I just wanted to actually get some clarification on the Downstream business. You guys mentioned a lot of sort of downtime between Pascagoula, El Segundo, Burnaby, South Africa, Richmond, the Yeosu refinery upgrader. I am just actually trying to digest all of that. Could you guys just let us know what was down and what is back up and at full production right now and maybe give us a little bit more detail on the upgrader here? So are you going to consume more heavy oil at Yeosu? And I just have a follow-up. Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, so I think what we can say we really have said already. So El Segundo and Pascagoula are back at normal operating levels. Richmond crude unit is just now taking feed and we will continue to line that out over the next several days. So certainly as we progress through the quarter, you should expect that to be back to full operation. The downtime at the smaller refineries, the same sort of circumstance has occurred. So it was just a very heavy first-quarter maintenance period. You should expect that second quarter will be substantially back fully operational. We don't go into specific details about which units we have down at which plants for which duration for commercial reasons, and I'm sure you can appreciate that.

And then in terms of South Korea here, we did have the new VGO FCC up and online with on-spec product during the first quarter at the 53,000 barrel a day plant. It does allow us to process heavier oil.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, got it, perfect. And then my follow-up is just on the Marcellus. Is there any chance you could give us sort of how production has grown for you in the Marcellus last year to this year? So you talked about it, I guess, in your prepared remarks, but just trying to understand how much growth you have seen out of that particular asset of yours.

JEFF GUSTAVSON: So I will take that. There has been production growth between year-on-year quarters and a lot of that is driven in the US by both the Marcellus and the Mid-Continent for us, which is effectively the Permian and some of the assets we have picked up from Chesapeake later last year. So Marcellus continued to use the carry and continue to bring on production.

PAT YARRINGTON: And we would expect the Permian component to continue to grow during the year.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, fair enough. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Asit Sen, Cowen Securities.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, COWEN SECURITIES: Thank you. Good morning. Two quick questions, one on Brazil and one on Australia. So just to follow up on Brazil, given Friday's start in second quarter and small contribution in 2013, how should we think about Papa Terra, still a 2013 startup or slips into 2014?

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. So we really need to refer you to the operator on this. But the operator continues to have a 2013 startup.

ASIT SEN: Okay. And then, secondly, on Australia, a more strategic question. In a scenario where floating LNG becomes viable, how does it impact your thought process on future LNG trains at either Gorgon or Wheatstone? Any early thoughts on that would be appreciated. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: So I think the floating LNG obviously is a technology that has still yet to be proven and my expectation would be, over time, that that will prove out to be a development design that will be appropriate for certain types of reservoirs.

In terms of Wheatstone and Gorgon, we are really in a position where we have invested already in the greenfield and our best opportunity for further expansion obviously will be brownfield. Brownfield, as you know, can be much more economic particularly on the Downstream components of the plant. Certainly, we think maybe 15% or so, 15% to 20% more capital efficient on the Downstream side. So we think the brownfield expansions that we have at Gorgon and Wheatstone, and given the resource size that we have at Gorgon and Wheatstone, will allow those developments when the time is right to be attractive and competitive.

ASIT SEN: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning. I just wonder if I could get a follow-up on the Marcellus. I guess in March, you announced you had $850 million left on the drilling carries there and were running about eight rigs. At your current level, when would you expect to exhaust that drilling carry and when you do, would you imagine that you continue on with that eight-rig drilling program or would you reduce activity at that time?

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. So the $850 million is the number that we have at this particular point in time. We are not going to continue to provide interim updates on that. That really is a function of kind of the drilling program and the rate at which the investments occur. Our expectation really is and I think we have said this for some time here that our expectation is that the drilling carry works through a period of what I will call relatively low US gas prices. It allows us to understand the reservoir, allow for kind of the -- to build out the development plan for that basin and by the time the carry is over, it is our expectation that we would be sitting in a stronger US natural gas price environment.

At the same time, we have had good success in improving the economics of our drilling program in terms of cost per well, the footprint per well and also the environmental impacts per well. So we are very pleased with the progress that we've been able to make and we are happy to have the carry, and we will continue to prosecute the plan over the next 12, 18, 24 months just as we have in the last couple of years.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. And I wonder if I could just get your updated thoughts on the acquisition front. Obviously, you did the deal with Chesapeake last year. A couple of years ago, the Atlas deal. What is your view right now as far as valuations are concerned in the US unconventional space whether it be natural gas and oil and how much opportunity do you see today relative to last year given I guess some of the softness in oil prices and maybe some of the other valuations of some of these smaller E&Ps out there that may fit into your portfolio?

PAT YARRINGTON: And I think -- I don't think I want to have a generic statement on this because I think it really does depend on the quality of the asset in the unconventional space. As we have seen, there is a big difference between sweet spot areas and non-sweet spot areas. And we continue to always be focused on the value proposition first and that really stems from the quality of the asset. In certain times here, we have seen that the high-quality assets have been very, very expensive and that our entry point was really too late. In other circumstances, we have found that for whatever reason, and Chesapeake, I think, was a good example of this, there were certain circumstantial above-ground issues that were faced that we could get in and get a good value for that.

Kitimat, in the unconventional space, we feel very pleased with having the opportunity to buy into that particular project. It is a tremendous resource base and we like the overall dynamics between the partners now. There is only two partners and we have got a good partner in Apache with a strong capability on the Upstream side. We obviously bring the Downstream side.

So we tend to look at the overall project and if we can find value in the overall project, we will go forward, but it is not -- there is not a blanket, gee, everything is overpriced or gee, everything is underpriced right now. It is very resource-specific and circumstantially-specific.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thanks for squeezing me in. Just a big-picture question on your overseas unconventionals. One of your European competitors recently made some very downbeat comments on shale development outside North America. You guys have been about as active as anyone in accumulating acreage. I would just like to get your latest thoughts on that.

PAT YARRINGTON: I think we have said that -- I know George has said that this is a long-term development opportunity. And we have always had the expectation that it would take several years to understand what this play could develop into. You just don't have the same infrastructure in these European countries as you have in the US. You don't have the same knowledge of the reservoir.

In the US, of course, the US had been drilled for decades and decades and there was an awful lot of reservoir knowledge. That is not the case in Europe. In the US, we have a lot of service providers and a lot of infrastructure. In Europe, that is not the case. We have well-established fiscal and political regimes here.

As it relates to hydrocarbons, that is not always the case in Europe. So there are a number of differences between the US environment and the European environment. So we have always thought that this would be a longer-term development opportunity.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay. Just a quick one on Kitimat. Is it still your stance that you will only move forward with the project if you can get crude linked offtake?

PAT YARRINGTON: Our belief is that selling Kitimat gas into an Asian market will require, I guess I would say, economic provisioning that will underpin the asset investment. And in our belief, the best mechanism for doing that is the oil-linked contract. So we believe that that will continue to be the basis that will be needed to spur on the investment for new LNG developments like a Kitimat.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: All right. I appreciate it, guys.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG: Hey, Pat, two quick ones actually. One, in page 10 of your presentation, you show in the US Downstream a negative bar of $190 million and you say that primarily relates to the downtime. Is that just the repair costs or that is including your estimate of the opportunity cost? And if you are not including the opportunity costs, do you have a rough estimate at how big that may be?

PAT YARRINGTON: No, I mean it's an analytical derivation to get you the volume bar and what we are really trying to say there is that the -- compared to last quarter and the volumes that we had running through the equipment and the margins that were achieved back then relative to this quarter and the margins achieved this year, we break that out between the volume and margin analyses here, variance analyses and that is really just trying to say that the primary driver for poor US Downstream earnings really had to do with having so much of our equipment down -- Pascagoula, Richmond, El Segundo.

PAUL CHENG: So that is the best estimate opportunity cost to you?

PAT YARRINGTON: No.

PAUL CHENG: That's fine. I will just follow up with Jeff later. A final one, at the end of the first quarter, from an inventory level, do you roughly balance or at a normal level or that you are underlifted or overlifted and do you have any under or overlift in the first quarter also?

JEFF GUSTAVSON: So Paul, we are slightly overlifted, but it's immaterial. It's less than half a percent in the first quarter.

PAUL CHENG: How about at the end of the quarter, are you roughly balanced?

JEFF GUSTAVSON: Well, that is the end of the quarter.

PAT YARRINGTON: That is the end.

PAUL CHENG: Oh, that is the end, I see. How about in the first quarter, did you have any overlift or underlift at all?

JEFF GUSTAVSON: Well, like I said, we were slightly overlifted, but less than a half a percent, so it is not material to our results.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: I am not showing any other questions in queue.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Then I would like to thank everybody for your participation here today, especially for the folks who asked the questions. With that, again, I will reiterate my appreciation for your interest in the Company and I wish you well for the day. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's first-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130503e94q00361
  


 HD
 Q4  2012  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,916 words
   PD
1 February 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's fourth-quarter 2012 earnings conference call.

   TD
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. John Watson. Please go ahead, sir.

JOHN WATSON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's fourth-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, our Chief Financial Officer, and Jeff Gustavson who is the General Manager of Investor Relations. We will, of course, refer to slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started please be reminded that the presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the usual cautionary statement that we have on slide two.

Turning to slide three I want to begin where we always do, with safety. We continued to achieve world-class low industrial injury and illness rates. We had our lowest-ever days away from work rate and once the data is finalized we expect to again lead the industry for the second consecutive year on this measure.

We are also focused on process safety with many successes. Last year we had our fewest number of spills ever, which translated to record low spill volume. We believe this, too, will be the best in the industry.

Having said this, it was not a perfect year. We do believe that zero incidents is attainable. We are not there yet, but we are striving to learn and improve to get to incident-free operations.

Our financial performance in 2012 was quite strong. We expect when all the 2012 results are in to again post the highest Upstream earnings per barrel by a significant margin and to be very near the top in Downstream earnings per barrel as well. These excellent financial results validate our strategies and the many past investment decisions.

I would like to summarize just a few additional accomplishments from last year. In our Upstream business we are steadily progressing our major capital projects. The Gorgon project was over 55% complete at year-end and Wheatstone has made good progress as well, both from a construction standpoint and in securing offtake commitments through several new long-term LNG supply agreements.

We have just posted a short video of recent Gorgon construction progress on our webpage, Chevron.com. I encourage you to take a few minutes to view the video. The progress is quite impressive.

We also continued construction activities on our projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico where Bigfoot and Jack/St. Malo are both on budget and on schedule for start-up in 2014. We achieved start-up at Usan and Agbami Phase 2 developments in Nigeria as well as Caesar/Tonga, Tahiti-2 deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico.

We continued to expand our discovered resource base with asset acquisitions in the Delaware Basin in the US and in Western Canada through an agreement to join the Kitimat LNG project. We also grew our exploration portfolio by acquiring positions in several new areas, including the Kurdistan region of Iraq, Suriname, Sierra Leone, Lithuania, and the Ukraine. Our reserve replacement ratio was 112% with adds distributed broadly across our Upstream portfolio.

In our Downstream business we completed our three-year restructuring plan and have delivered on the commitments made when we first began simplifying our business, streamlining our portfolio, reducing costs, and improving returns, all while retaining scale where we have competitive positions. We also continued to make progress on key growth projects in our lubricants and chemical businesses.

We are very proud of our performance this past year. With that I will turn it over to Pat who will take you through our financials. Pat?

PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, John. Slide four provides an overview of our financial performance.

The Company's fourth-quarter earnings were $7.2 billion, or $3.70 per diluted share. For the year earnings were an impressive $26.2 billion. This equates to $13.32 per diluted share, nearly tied with 2011's record performance.

Return on Capital Employed for the year approached 19% and our debt ratio at year-end was 8.2%. 2012 marked our 25th consecutive annual dividend increase with an 11.1% rise in the quarterly rate. This demonstrates our confidence in our future performance and is consistent with our priority of rewarding our shareholders with sustained and competitive dividend growth.

In the fourth quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares, bringing the full-year share repurchase total to $5 billion. In the first quarter of 2013 we expect to repurchase the same amount, $1.25 billion of shares.

Finally, Chevron's 2012 TSR was 5%. We continued to lead our peer group on total shareholder return for the three-year, the five-year, and the 10-year period, as well as all periods in between. You probably noticed we are also off to a strong TSR start so far this year.

Turning to slide five, cash generated from operations was $12.9 billion during the fourth quarter. For the full year cash from operations was nearly $39 billion, reflecting our impressive operating performance and the cash generating strength of our portfolio.

At year-end our cash balances totaled $22 billion. This kept us in a net cash position of about $10 billion at year-end. Our strong cash flow and solid balance sheet continued to be a competitive advantage.

Now on slide six I will compare the results of fourth quarter 2012 with the third quarter of 2012. As a reminder, our earnings release compares fourth quarter 2012 with the same quarter a year ago. Fourth-quarter earnings were $7.2 billion, nearly $2 billion higher than third-quarter results.

Upstream earnings increased $1.7 billion, reflecting increased gains on asset transactions and higher liftings. Downstream results were up $236 million between quarters, driven by favorable inventory effects and gains on asset transactions. The variance in the Other bar reflects a favorable swing in corporate tax items partially offset by higher corporate charges.

On slide seven our US Upstream earnings for the fourth quarter were $241 million higher than the third quarter's results. Higher realizations improved earnings by $40 million, driven largely by a 22% increase in natural gas realizations. Higher production volumes increased earnings by $85 million between periods, reflecting recovery in production post- Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico and increased production associated with recently acquired acreage in the Permian Basin.

The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including favorable tax impacts and the net effect of small asset transactions.

Now on slide eight, International Upstream earnings were about $1.5 billion higher than the third quarter. Higher liftings increased earnings by $295 million. Planned turnarounds in Kazakhstan and in the UK in the third quarter were completed and production from these fields returned to normal levels in the fourth quarter.

Realizations increased earnings by $95 million, reflecting a 2% improvement in average liquid realizations in line with the increase in Brent prices. A favorable swing in foreign currency effects improved earnings by about $220 million. The fourth quarter had a loss of about $30 million compared to a loss of $250 million in the third quarter.

Asset sale gains increased earnings by a net $830 million. Fourth-quarter results included a gain of $1.4 billion from the previously announced asset exchange in Australia, while the third quarter contained a gain of $600 million associated with the sale of an equity interest in the Wheatstone Project. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including lower exploration expenses.

Slide nine summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Production increased 152,000 barrels per day between quarters. Recovery from the impacts of Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico increased production by 23,000 barrels per day.

Absence of planned turnaround activity, primarily in Kazakhstan and the UK, increased production by 94,000 barrels a day.

The base business bar includes higher cost recovery volumes and production from newly-acquired acreage in the Permian Basin partially offset by normal field decline. Production from major capital projects increased in the fourth quarter by 7,000 barrels a day, primarily driven by the ramp up of Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico.

Slide 10 compares full-year 2012 net oil equivalent production to that of 2011. Production decreased by 63,000 barrels per day in 2012. Frade remained shut-in for the year reducing daily production by 29,000 barrels.

The Base Business and Other bar reflects normal field declines as well as the impact of smaller asset sales. Our base decline rate for the year was approximately 4%, in line with prior guidance. Incremental production for major capital projects contributed 85,000 barrels a day, driven by the ramp-up of Platong II gas project in Thailand and Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico as well as the start up of Usan in Nigeria.

Our original production guidance for 2012 was 2.68 million barrels of oil equivalent per day. We fell short of that guidance by 70,000 barrels per day predominately due to the shut-in of Frade and the delays experienced with the start-up of Angola LNG.

Turning to slide 11, US Downstream earnings decreased $125 million in the fourth quarter. Realized margins decreased earnings by $90 million driven mainly by weaker refining margins on both the Gulf and West Coast due to lower demand and higher seasonal gasoline inventory levels. Improved marketing margins only partly offset the decline in refining margins.

Volumes reduced earnings by $30 million, primarily due to the continued shutdown of the Richmond, California, refinery crude unit. A return to normal operations at the Pascagoula, Mississippi, refinery post-Hurricane Isaac partly offset the decrease.

Inventory effects represented a $95 million improvement in earnings between quarters, largely reflecting favorable year-end LIFO effects. Operating expenses increased $100 million largely due to higher maintenance, transportation, and environmental-related expenses.

On slide 12 International Downstream earnings improved $361 million this quarter. Higher realized margins benefited earnings by $60 million. Lower crack spreads in Asia were more than offset by improved marketing margins and pricing lag effects for sales of naphtha and jet fuel in key markets.

Inventory effects represented $145 million improvement in earnings between quarters, mostly reflecting the absence of negative inventory impacts during the third quarter. Gains on asset sales, combined with the absence of charges associated with the portfolio restructuring in Australia in the third quarter, improved earnings by $210 million.

The Other bar reflects a number of other unrelated items, including unfavorable swing in foreign exchange impact.

Slide 13 covers All Other. Fourth-quarter net charges were $538 million compared to a net $575 million charge in the third quarter, so a decrease of $37 million between periods. A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $99 million benefit to earnings while corporate costs were $62 million higher this quarter.

For the full year, this segment had net charges of $1.9 billion, which is higher than our quarterly guidance range of $300 million to $400 million. Given the number of discrete items that impacted this segment in 2012, we are upping our guidance range for 2013 to $400 million to $500 million per quarter to reflect several miscellaneous items, including increased environmental remediation costs and higher corporate expenses.

With that I would like to now turn it back over to John for a few thoughts on 2013.

JOHN WATSON: Thanks, Pat. Let's turn to slide 14.

In early December we announced a $36.7 billion capital program for 2013. Our capital program is well-aligned with our long-stated strategy of investing in attractive projects that will deliver volume growth and value growth for our shareholders. The program supports continued progress at several large Upstream projects under construction, notably our legacy LNG projects in Australia and our deepwater Gulf of Mexico developments.

Continued investments in our current project queue is expected to drive profitable growth through the end of the decade. We are also increasing our exploration activities, including the initial appraisal of recently acquired acreage in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, Suriname, Sierra Leone, and several international unconventional plays, among other areas.

Our Downstream investments for 2013 are directed toward our premium base oil facility at our Pascagoula refinery, expanded additives production in Singapore, and our projects which will enhance the reliability and flexibility of our global refining system. Additional projects will be funded by affiliates in our refining and chemicals joint venture.

Turning to slide 15, our net production outlook for the year is 2.65 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, an increase of about 1.5% from 2012 levels. This is based on average Brent price of $112 per barrel, the same average price as 2012, and does not assume OPEC curtailments, material security, or market impacts.

Our full-year estimate for 2013 is about on par with our fourth-quarter 2012 production. The start-up of Angola LNG as well as increased production from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Thailand, and Nigeria are expected to roughly offset base business decline and normal turnaround activities later in the year.

Although we expect restart production at the -- to restart production at the Frade field in Brazil, it will not contribute materially to this year's net production. Base business decline is still expected to be about 4%.

Our 2017 production target remains intact at 3.3 million barrels per day. In fact, over 90% of the volume contributing to the target is either currently producing or under construction with the remaining volume well understood. We will keep you posted through the year on developments and progress in both our Upstream and Downstream businesses. We also plan to provide a great amount of additional detail at our upcoming Security Analyst Meeting in early March.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We now welcome your questions. We do have a full queue, so please limit yourself to one question and a single follow-up if necessary. We will do our best to see that we get your questions answered.

Sean, please open the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Morning, everybody. John, I believe you guys hold over 950,000 acres in the Delaware Basin inclusive of last year's asset acquisition and a larger position in the Permian total, making Chevron one of the larger acreage holders yet running fewer rigs than some of the peers. So how many unconventional rigs are you running?

And maybe you can discuss planned activity ramp in 2013 and whether or not there is any internal constraints for you, whether you are limited at all on the people side to accelerating this NAV realization? I have a second question, please.

JOHN WATSON: We are ramping up rig activity. In fact, we are just looking at some of the material we are going to show you for the SAM (Security Analyst Meeting) meeting that is coming up. We will give you actually some pretty good rig count data.

What you will see is we are ramping up rapidly in the Delaware Basin as you would expect. We have got really over 20 in the Permian region that are running right now. We will give you more specifics about the ramp up that is headed there.

Activity in a fewer number of rigs are running up in the Marcellus region, but that, too, has been gradually ramping up. As you know, we are still drilling gas prospects there as we have the carry that we are working through. We will be happy to give you a lot more detail with precision on the number of rigs. We are seeing volume growth in both of these areas that are a part of the plan going forward.

You had a follow-up?

EVAN CALIO: Yes. I just was curious within that if you saw any internal constraints, meaning you are able to organically to ramp those volumes.

JOHN WATSON: Well, we are. Having said that I think the industry is very focused on building organizational capability. We have added a significant number of new people and added to our drilling training programs that we have in place both in the United States and overseas.

And so organizational capability, we are not going to operate if we don't have people that we think are trained and capable. I think there are pressures on the industry, but when we plan to ramp up we only plan to ramp up if we have the right people.

EVAN CALIO: Understood. My second question was, John, I noticed one of your favorite topics, as well as Pat, is the Ecuador litigation. I know there has been some positive movement there in the most recent quarter. We have read the judge directly implicating himself in improper conduct as well as plaintiff, but also your legal involvement is spreading across the globe now in Argentina and Brazilian courts as well as US and Canada and the Hague.

So I was wondering if you could just provide any roadmap for activity in 2013 in these various theaters of operation and when the RICO case is set to commence. And I will leave it there, thanks.

JOHN WATSON: Sure. That is a broad question and I will try to do it succinctly.

First, your premise is correct. We continue to uncover evidence of quite profound fraud in the case. You mentioned that a judge that was actually involved in ghostwriting the opinions based on bribes he was receiving from the plaintiffs' lawyers has come forward and given a statement in US courts and has provided corroborating physical evidence to support his allegations that he ghostwrote the opinion for the plaintiffs' lawyer.

So you now have a circumstance where we have through videos, through sworn testimony, through e-mails and other means clear evidence that the plaintiffs' lawyers have thoroughly corrupted the judicial process in Ecuador and this is an invalid opinion.

I think that is pretty well known by you and others out there. I think the question is, well, how do you bring this thing to an end, and I would say that we are moving forward in several areas.

The RICO case, the wheels of justice movement at a certain pace. We have been moving our RICO case forward; it will go to trial in New York in October of this year. We are actively in the courts in the Hague.

We expect there are a series of rulings that will take place over time, but we have won virtually every procedural ruling there and expect that we will see some --. There have already been some judgments that have been put out indicating, for example, that the government of Ecuador should do everything in their power to prevent this false judgment from being enforced, which, of course, they have ignored. And so we do expect that there will be possible rulings out of that panel as well.

But there are multiple stages to those cases. We have had multiple discovery proceedings in the US. The area that you are probably interested in is the -- we believe it is an illegal verdict but the plaintiffs' lawyers are taking it and trying to use that judgment for recoveries in other countries.

Our view has been that any country that honors rule of law will not uphold this verdict and, in fact, will throw it out. Having said that we have to defend ourselves and so we are doing it in Canada, Argentina, and Brazil.

You should know that these cases take time. There are a number of procedural steps that take place and so, first, there are jurisdictional issues that are worked. It takes a while, if you ever get through those hoops, to get to the merits. Our view is that when there has been a fraud committed by the court that no government with a functioning judiciary is going to uphold this and the countries where these enforcement actions have been filed, we think, ultimately will support rule of law.

But we have to fight in every step of the way and I can't put a timeline on that. What I can tell you is we are not going to reward people that have committed crimes against us.

EVAN CALIO: I appreciate it. Thank you for the update.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Again on the cash pile, I am still perplexed by why it is so large subsequent to the Gorgon CapEx announcement. John or Pat, could you just remind us again why we are holding so much cash on the balance sheet in this interest rate environment? Thank you.

JOHN WATSON: Sure, Paul. We have talked about the priorities for our cash and I will just -- for the benefit of everyone on the line, I will just repeat them.

Our uses of cash are geared toward paying and sustaining and growing the dividend, funding the capital programs that are required to make our earnings and cash flow grow, keeping some capacity on the balance sheet for the ups and downs in the commodity markets and changes that can take place in the business, and, finally, returning cash to shareholders through repurchases. And that has been our strategy for a long, long time.

You are correct; we have more cash than debt on our balance sheet. But I think if you look at our capital program that we have announced this year where the cash portion of the C&E is about $33 billion, if you look at the cash that we generated this year -- and you can use your own estimate of what commodity prices and margins are going to be -- it would be pretty easy to add at the current rate of dividend and repurchases some $12 billion in distributions and see that our net cash balances will come down this year based on a reasonable forecast.

I will tell you that between now and the end of 2014 you should see our net cash less debt, that net number that we talk about, will come down over time. I don't know exactly what commodity prices will be during that period, but it will come down through a combination of significant capital spending, which we have underway this year and next; dividends; and repurchases that we will size to get our balance sheet back down to something with a little more net debt on the balance sheet than we have had previously.

We have had a conservative balance sheet. Prices have been a little bit higher than we had expected, but we know that there are uncertainties out there and we think that is the best way to run our balances at this point.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you, John. John, you have said you are relatively bullish on oil prices and you like the shape of your portfolio. There is a US oil revolution underway and you do seem relatively underweight in that area which is, after all, your own backyard. What is your appetite to step up your exposure to US oil? Thank you.

JOHN WATSON: Sure. We are investing in a big way in the United States, of course, offshore with our developments at Jack/St. Malo and Bigfoot and the exploration program that we have in the Gulf of Mexico. I think you are probably referring to some of the onshore activity.

Again, we have had a long-standing position in California that produces oil. We have had a mature business and a lot of acreage in West Texas. And then we have recently added to that with the acquisition where we picked up some acreage in New Mexico from Chesapeake.

Our unconventional production -- we told you last year that our unconventional production around the world would be 175,000 barrels a day by 2017. That a not insignificant portion of the increase in our production between now and 2017 would be in the unconventional area and a lot of that is in the United States. I think what you will see when we come back for the SAM presentation in a month or so is that number will be higher. It will be a function of the ramp-up of activity in the Permian area as well as some successes that we expect to see in the Marcellus and in the Utica.

I will tell you we tend to be returns focused when we make investments and I will tell you right now a lot of what we see -- a lot of transactions come across our desk, but we take on opportunities where we think on a full-cycle basis, including the acquisition costs, we can generate solid returns. And right now there are assets that are selling that we think are very pricey.

Now we feel very good about the acquisition of acreage from Chesapeake; that was a complex transaction. We think we negotiated a good deal there. We feel particularly good, although it is not oil, we feel particularly good about the transaction in Canada. It is an enormous resource that we have picked up that ultimately will produce LNG for export that will be at oil-linked pricing.

And so we feel pretty good about the way we have added to our portfolio given all the opportunities that we have around the world.

PAUL SANKEY: Sure. Conceptually would you prefer the Bakken or the Permian?

JOHN WATSON: I prefer an area where we can make a good return, being very honest. We don't have a position in the Bakken. I think I have said before if I could wind back the clock and see that well it would be nice to have a position.

But it is very pricey right now. To just pour a bunch of capital in there and enter that fray I don't know that we could make full cycle economics look very good.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you, John.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Thanks very much. I just had a couple questions on LNG if I could please. First of all, revisions to the Gorgon budget are now out in the marketplace and, John, I just wanted to -- or Pat -- just ask what potentially you have learned from the Gorgon process that you will be able to apply to Wheatstone to potentially keep the cost of that project more in line with the original budget?

JOHN WATSON: Fair question. If you look at the Gorgon project, when we went to FID back in 2009 oil prices were in the $60s. The Australian dollar was I think $0.86 or so. And we don't hedge foreign exchange exposure because we think the Australian dollar is pretty well hedged to commodity prices, and that actually has proven to be accurate.

So part of the increase that you saw in cost was from foreign exchange. In fact, about a third of the cost increase. The areas where we had some challenges were really in the area of logistics and that was fairly unique to Barrow Island where some of the quantities of materials proved to be larger than expected.

And the logistics -- there is a large fleet of vessels moving goods and materials on to Barrow island and we have learned from that. In terms of things that triggered the cost increases at Gorgon I think we have learned well about the logistics, but Wheatstone is an onshore project. It is not on Barrow Island, so I think the circumstances are just a little bit different.

Some of the learnings that are key to us are that you better get your infrastructure in order. So, for example, we are working very hard right now on simple things like beds and roads and infrastructure, and that is going quite well at Wheatstone.

At times we were impacted by weather as we were constructing the beds and other facilities and infrastructure in the early days of Gorgon. There were a number of cyclones that went through the area and that impacted us. So we know that infrastructure is critical path and we are working very hard there.

Now there are a number of other learnings and synergies, if you will, that will come from the people and procurement and other activity on Gorgon that, of course, will be applied to Wheatstone. So we are doing our best to learn from Gorgon and other projects as we move forward.

Now remember Wheatstone went to FID at parity with the Australian dollar, so I don't expect a material impact from foreign exchange as we have seen in Gorgon today.

JASON GAMMEL: Sure. John, if I could just follow up, please, on a comment that you made about oil-linked pricing for the Kitimat project. That might be considered somewhat of a controversial remark in that some buyers are trying to push away from oil-price linkage.

Can you just comment on what you are seeing in your conversations with buyers about the ability to sustain that oil linkage?

JOHN WATSON: Well, as soon as it was announced that we were coming into that project our phones started ringing. So buyers -- we are a credible buyer in the marketplace and I think buyers throughout Asia -- Japan, Korea, etc. -- are very interested in Chevron and interested in the project.

I'm going to show you a little bit of information at the SAM coming up in a month or so because there is a lot of talk about the different pricing for LNG. There is always a balance between supply and demand. What we see is continuing growth in demand. There is a lot of gas out there, but pulling these projects together and getting them online, getting them online in time to meet that demand is a different matter.

I can tell you that it takes a large capital commitment and most companies in the world aren't going to make that commitment without having pricing that gives them a fair return. And that pricing is going to need to be something close to oil parity or the projects won't get built.

And so we will talk more about that. I know that there are different contract negotiations going on in the industry but -- and talk of S curves and things of that sort. But so far we have been able to keep our contracts on an oil-linked basis and have expectations that we will have strong pricing going forward or, frankly, these projects won't go. That is the best way I can answer that.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, I appreciate the comments and look forward to seeing you all in March.

JOHN WATSON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning, everybody. Morning, John. Got a couple of quick ones for you. First of all, a follow-up to Jason's question (technical difficulty).

PAT YARRINGTON: Doug, you are cutting out and we can't hear your question. Could you try again?

DOUG LEGGATE: Let me dial back in. Let me try one more time.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you. We will go to another question.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning. On the Downstream side could you give us an update on the Richmond refinery and when it will return to full operation and what regulatory approvals and permits are required to bring all the units back up and running?

JOHN WATSON: Sure. We had a fire that was back in August. Since that time we have been going through the regulatory reviews, as you would expect, and going through the repairs that have been necessary.

We are nearing the end of that repair work and we really have a couple of steps that are left. One is an order prohibiting use, which has to be lifted by Cal/OSHA, and the second is our own sort of pre-start safety reviews that would be normal and customary to bring the crude unit back up. So we are really targeting first quarter and I have no reason to think it will be other than that at this time.

The repair work is going well. It has been arduous getting permits and going through the process here in Richmond, but we are working through that and expect that we will be ready to go here in the first quarter.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, great. Thanks. Just a quick question on the asset sale gain in Downstream. Could you just confirm that the $210 million change quarter over quarter is also pretty close to the absolute asset sale gain in the quarter?

PAT YARRINGTON: Let me just look here for a moment here.

FAISEL KHAN: Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, actually, no. We did have a third quarter -- there was the asset transaction, a negative impact associated with the Australia restructuring. So the variance is what we were talking about. It is a small, relatively small amount that you are talking about all together.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, fair enough.

PAT YARRINGTON: In terms of an absolute in the quarter.

FAISEL KHAN: So the absolute number is fairly small or de minimus in the quarter?

PAT YARRINGTON: Right, and the variance does take into account the Australia Kurnell refinery restructuring in third quarter.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, got you. Perfect, thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate.

DOUG LEGGATE: Can you hear me now? So the question was on the timing of Kitimat and the FEED work that Apache had already done. What do you expect happens now to the timeline of that project? And I do have a follow-up if you can hear me. Thanks.

JOHN WATSON: I better wait till we close the transaction before I comment. Apache has been doing -- Apache and partners have been doing the work thus far. We hope to close the transaction soon and will become the operator at the plant and pick up where they have left off. And they have done quite a bit of work.

But it is too early for me to talk about the specifics because, frankly, we are not yet in the project per se. So give us a pass for now. After we close the transaction and can follow up on the due diligence work that we have done and really look more closely, we will give you a better idea of both cost and schedule in due course here.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great, thanks. So my follow-up is going back to our lunch in December you had mentioned some concern or maybe some issues around the tax regime in Nigeria. Could you give us an update as to where you see that currently and how it may or may not impact to the development?

JOHN WATSON: I wish I could give you an update, but there has been a petroleum bill in progress in Nigeria for several years now and, frankly, I don't have any particular update on it right now.

PAT YARRINGTON: I was just going to say the bill is currently in the national assembly and, as John says, it has been under review for a long period of time. And we really can't say much more about which way we think this will go. We have been on record as saying that as it is constructed it is not an incentive for further investment, particularly deepwater.

DOUG LEGGATE: So (technical difficulty) is pretty far along though, I would assume that wouldn't be affected?

JOHN WATSON: I'm not going to speculate on where it may wind up. We and others have expressed our view that the bill, the ultimate bill that is put into law needs to offer incentive or they will see reduced activity. Frankly, right now the uncertainty is resulting in reduced activity so they do need to come to resolution. But I am not going to predict how or when that is going to happen.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right, folks. Thanks for the answers, appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. John, maybe it's a little bit of an oddball question. Over the last 10 years I think a lot of people, both in the industry and the host government, believe the resources become more scarce. Easy oil has already been tapped and so they have been pushing tougher and tougher terms.

With the last several years of the new founded opportunity set in North America and, quite frankly, I think the budget course and the host government has continued to go up. So have you seen a bit of a change in your negotiation or in your dialogue with the host government that they become a bit more accommodating or that the balance of power start shifting more back into a neutral zone?

JOHN WATSON: Fair question, Paul. I can't say that I have seen a relaxation in terms. What I will say is that it is a competitive market out there and countries that put forward terms and conditions that don't allow us to make a fair return we look elsewhere.

The reality is we have a long queue of opportunities. It is as good as it has ever been since I have been in the Company. We have more opportunities coming at us every day at all phases of development, from exploration all of the way up through discovered resources and other opportunities. And so we can be a little bit choosy.

And capital does move across the globe and goes to where the returns are. I am not going to single out specific countries, but I think you know well that there are a number of countries where activity has ground to a halt. It has ground to a halt because investors do have choices. They are not going to go where they don't have the certainty of the returns, a fiscal environment and other conditions necessary to invest.

So it is a competitive world. I will say that some host governments are acutely aware of what is happening in the US and I know there is some nervousness in that regard, but I can't say that I have seen a wholesale change in (multiple speakers).

PAUL CHENG: Can I ask as a follow-up? In the last, say, 10 years in sometimes that we have seen some foolish behavior from some of your competitors in rushing in some project and accepting really bad terms. In your discussion and when you chat with your peer or what you can see in your partner have you seen the behavior change that the people now believe they have better opportunity set than, say, in the past so that they are not going to be as maybe that accepting those unreasonable terms as likely as in the past?

JOHN WATSON: If I understand your question you are asking me to comment on the foolishness of my competitors and I'm not going to.

PAUL CHENG: Have you see a change in, because in commodity business sometimes, unfortunately, that you're only as good as your next dumbest guy.

JOHN WATSON: I'm not going to comment on our competitors. What I will say is for us we have to see the right fiscal terms in order for us to invest.

One of the areas we have talked about before that was, frankly, disappointing to me in many ways because we worked very hard was in Iraq where, going back way back to 2003, we had been providing technical support and training. And we had hoped that there would be an opportunity to enter southern Iraq. When push came to shove in those bid rounds we just didn't see that the opportunity measured up.

We are always value focused in what we do. We are not barrel-focused, per se. Those are great resources but we didn't see an opportunity to make money, so we politely passed on bidding and moved on to other opportunities.

I can't speak for others, but that is the calculus we go through. We want to help nations grow and develop their resources but we have to get a fair return in doing so. I think host governments are getting better recognizing that. I assume our partners have similar criteria. They may come to different judgments on these things, but that is what we are all trying to do.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jeffries.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: A couple of questions, please. Firstly, a little surprised you said that there's only going to be minimal production from Angola LNG this year. Is there still issues with that plant that are going to delay it into the second half of the year, or maybe you could just expand a little bit on what the situation is there?

JOHN WATSON: I hope I said that there would be minimal production from Frade this year. Frade we shut down on a precautionary basis early in 2012, and we are working closely with the regulatory authorities to restart production. But I won't give you an estimated date until we can complete the discussions to settle some of the litigation that is involved there. And the discussions have been good.

Angola LNG is different. We do expect Angola LNG to start up in the second quarter, so we do have a partial year of production. And, in fact, that is the single largest contributor. If you look at our major capital project wedge on production for 2013, Angola LNG is the largest single project. It will start up in the second quarter and ramp up over the course of the year. At full capacity after full ramp-up, Angola LNG contributes about 60,000 barrels a day, so it is significant. But there will be a ramp-up that will happen over time.

IAIN REID: Okay, my follow-up is on your 2017 production. You said that you had 90% of the volumes ongoing in order to meet that. What is the extra 10%? And I am just wondering, you've still got the fairly low price assumption on that. Do you want to give us any sort of sensitivity on what it would be at current prices?

JOHN WATSON: Sure. We categorize our projects into several different categories. We have producing assets today, so we have assets that are online today and there is a natural decline to those. But a significant number of those are producing today and will be online -- still be online in 2017.

We have projects that are under construction, projects like Jack/St. Malo in the Gulf of Mexico. That will be on production and ramped up and will contribute, but it is not contributing today. So that is a project that is under construction.

We also have projects that are in FEED, or front end engineering and design, and then we have -- that will come to a final investment decision. Investments will be made and they will start up. Then we have other smaller capital projects that have a shorter cycle time to them, so that remaining 10% are typically shorter cycle time projects that we know are coming or projects that have not yet -- are not yet under construction.

An example of some of the projects that will ramp up or some of the varying activity in the Permian and elsewhere in the United States, smaller projects in Thailand and Indonesia, places like that. So we have good knowledge of what is in there. What we are saying is the project itself may not be under construction right now on that remaining 10%.

We are going to give you a heck of a lot of detail on all of this information as we get up to the SAM meeting. I will just say that we have greater certainty and knowledge and confidence today than we did a year ago on that 2017 target. We have work to do but we know where the barrels are coming from.

IAIN REID: So you don't need Tengiz Future Growth?

JOHN WATSON: Actually not. When we first gave you our target for 2017 there was some contribution from the Future Growth Project. We have been working with the government and our partners on FGP. In fact, I was in Kazakhstan late last year and the president was very supportive of the project and wanted us to move it forward expeditiously.

It does have a long lead time to it. We have had to work through issues with our partners. We have done that and we expect that start-up will be in 2018. So we have been able to replace the barrels that we had previously earmarked for 2017 from Tengiz with other opportunities. Of course, that means that we will have growth beyond 2017 from that very significant project, which only adds to the profile we have talked about.

IAIN REID: Any chance you can give us the target at today's prices?

JOHN WATSON: The volume target?

IAIN REID: Yes.

PAT YARRINGTON: That is something we can do at the SAM. We don't have the number here right now with us. You understand why we keep it at the $79 rate, correct?

IAIN REID: Yes.

JOHN WATSON: The 3.3 million barrels a day target for 2017 hasn't changed and we will talk more about some of the projects that will contribute. I don't think we made a secret of the Tengiz -- the next project at Tengiz is a 250,000 to 300,000 barrel a day gross project and we have about half of that. So it is a significant contributor.

But there are other changes that have taken place in the portfolio that are other opportunities as well. But essentially as that project moved out just a little bit we have replaced it with unconventional and other opportunities.

IAIN REID: Okay, thanks very much, guys.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. Thanks for the call so far. Just coming back to the Gulf of Mexico, obviously that is still an area with a lot of spend going on. Any updates on projects on time, on budget?

JOHN WATSON: Actually I just had a review recently and both Jack/St. Malo and Bigfoot are on schedule for start-up next year. They are both going well.

They are both over 50% complete. Bigfoot is some two-thirds of the way along; Jack/St. Malo is close to 60% along. We've got development drilling that is taking place, a couple rigs that are working Jack/St. Malo now.

So the progress is good. We will give you a little more color around that next month at the SAM meeting but the progress is good.

2014 will be a good year for us production wise. We will have -- in addition to those projects coming on during the year we will have a full year of activity from Angola LNG. We will have substantial contribution from Papa Terra, Escravos gas-to-liquid, and others.

So we expect 2014 will be a pretty good year. Pretty consistent with what we have talked to you about before where on this 2017 pathway the growth would be back-end loaded and 2014 is when you will start to see most of that come to pass.

ED WESTLAKE: Then just switching to shale, you mentioned 175,000 barrels a day contribution to 2017. You may not have the numbers, but maybe just a rough sense of how much of that 175,000 comes from, say, the Permian, the Duvernay, and the liquid-rich Utica?

JOHN WATSON: We will leave that one for George to talk to you about. I will tell you the number will be bigger than 175,000 barrels a day and we will try to give you a little bit of color on that next month. How about that?

ED WESTLAKE: I could have asked the question more simply. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning. John, previously you mentioned the value of integration given that you never really know where the rents are going to be in the oil and gas business.

Given the growing US volumes, your participation in the unconventional and Gulf of Mexico, some of these volumes that may trade at a discount to global world prices, does it make sense at this point to maybe reevaluate your US refining position? Particularly getting involved in maybe some of these areas in the US, whether it be the Mid-Con or the Gulf Coast that may see long-term benefits from this. Or is the focus still more just on the chemical side for your Downstream?

JOHN WATSON: If you are saying are we thinking about buying a refinery, I would tell you that is not something that we are looking to do. Our involvement really is along the lines you describe where we do have low-cost liquids and our terrific position with Chevron Phillips chemical company allows us to take advantage of that, both for existing assets and this expansion project that the chemical company has discussed. So that is the primary way that we will take advantage of it.

Now I will say that we have got two refineries that do take advantage of low-cost feedstock. We have a refinery at Salt Lake, we have a refinery at Burnaby in British Columbia, and those two refineries take advantage of low-cost feedstocks. We are always looking for ways to try to get lower cost feedstocks into our West Coast and Pascagoula refineries.

That is a little tougher. We have moved a little bit there, but it is a longer haul so it is not clear that we will be able to take advantage of it in that way. But we have got quite a bit of effort; we are pretty full up on what we think are some good investments in the Upstream end of the business.

Over time I think these markets will equalize and so making investments that aren't quite compatible with the strategy in the Downstream to take advantage of what we think will be a short-term phenomenon really isn't something we are looking to do.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, thanks. Then you mentioned sort of the premium that was on unconventional opportunities here in the US, particularly in the Bakken. Do you see more value maybe internationally where the market is a little bit less developed and maybe where you can apply a bit more expertise and have a bit more value-add on the unconventional side?

If you look internationally as well, do you see a bit more opportunity maybe areas you are not currently involved where you may be able to leverage your deepwater expertise, like in the Arctic or an East Africa or maybe even a Russia?

JOHN WATSON: Our commercial philosophy is to go in where we can bring technology or something unique. We favor early, low-cost entries where we can add value over time through the application of our technology or know-how. When it gets down to a pure bidding war with a lot of different players, in the US there is a lot of money that is looking for opportunities. If it is not a particularly difficult entry for a party, it means there will be a lot of bidders and prices get bid up.

So while the resources are very good and well understood in the US, and in many cases are quite prolific, we are focused on the kind of returns that we can get. And so we have made selective entries in the US. We feel good about those entries. Done well in Canada.

And we have picked up some acreage overseas, notably in half a dozen countries in Central Europe. We have a preliminary agreement in South Africa, Argentina, China, etc. Those are more exploration plays and are early-stage entries. They don't represent a significant capital commitment, but on the upside, if they are successful will be significant. We think we will be able to add value.

Similarly, in more conventional exploration there are parties that come to us because of our knowledge and expertise in deepwater that want an experienced partner. We are able to typically negotiate arrangements that are better than just an open bidding. In some cases we work directly with the government on awards and in other cases will work with smaller companies that may have accumulated acreage over time. That is why you have seen we have added acreage in Sierra Leone, Suriname, and other locations.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Just two quick ones for you, John. You mentioned at the beginning that you had signed new LNG contracts in Australia. Are those incremental to what was discussed last September on the tour?

JOHN WATSON: No, I don't think we have anything new to talk about on the contracts. We are over 80% placed on Wheatstone and in the mid-60%s on Gorgon.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, I just wanted to make sure I didn't miss something. That is fine.

PAT YARRINGTON: John, we were just commenting that that was an accomplishment for the year, for 2012.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. I just wanted to make sure I didn't misunderstand. Obviously, I did.

Next one, on the Gulf of Mexico you have to do more BOP testing today. How has that kind of changed your development costs given the new regulations in the Gulf? And that is it.

JOHN WATSON: Well, several things have changed in the Gulf of Mexico for us if you really look at what has happened. The regulatory environment, of course, is -- obviously there is a great deal of attention to the regulatory environment, so the permitting process itself takes time.

The number of inspections that takes place is significant. There are extra casing strings that can be required at times, added BOP inspections, added costs being a part of the Marine Well Containment Company, etc. Plus other cost pressures that you are seeing in the business.

So we have seen some cost increases in addition to that rig rate. So over the past several years it is not unusual to say a 20% to 25% increase in costs have been seen by the industry, and that is just the reality of doing business today. Of course, we have got over $100 oil, too.

JOHN HERRLIN: Great, thanks you.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thanks for taking my question. On the Kitimat project, just taking a step back, as one of the top LNG producers, particularly when Gorgon and Wheatstone start up, are you worried that with 30 US and Canadian LNG export plants in some stage of development there could be kind of a delinking of LNG and crude in Asia-Pacific?

JOHN WATSON: I think that has been speculated about. Our view is that there are always a queue of projects that are discussed and if you look closely at what is discussed versus what actually get built there is a difference between the two. I said earlier on the call that I don't think that you will see what I would call speculative development of LNG sites without some certainty around contracts and sales prices.

My view is it's going to take substantial prices to underpin developments of these tens of billions of dollars in spending that is going to be required and, therefore, some projects will go and some will not. We think that we have a leg up - in terms of the relationships we have, the credibility we have, our ability to construct facilities - in our discussions with the buyers.

Next month at the SAM meeting I will show you a little bit of information about our view of both supply and demand for worldwide LNG. What we see is continued growth in demand and supply that tends to continually get pushed out, because the lead time on these projects is long. It is now at the point that it is pretty close to six years.

And so you can see these projects coming. There may be announcements made, but until you see FID, until you see construction happen you have to be somewhat circumspect about which projects will actually contribute to supply.

I think that is it. Appreciate the good question; that concludes our remarks. Let me just say I just appreciate everyone's participation in today's call. I have given several plugs for our full Security Analyst Meeting that we are going to have in March. We will look forward to seeing you there.

Thank you all very much. Sean?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's fourth-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130215e9210063h
  


 HD
 Q3  2012  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,489 words
   PD
2 November 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

   TD
PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: All right, thank you, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today is Mike Wirth, Executive Vice President, Downstream & Chemicals and Jeff Gustavson, General Manager, Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. Financially, it was another solid quarter. The Company's third-quarter earnings were $5.3 billion, or $2.69 per diluted share. Current quarter earnings are down about 30% compared to both second quarter 2012 and to third quarter 2011. It is important to note that both comparative periods, second quarter this year and third quarter last year, are among the strongest quarters we have ever had.

It is also important to note, as you will see in the remainder of the presentation, that a number of items negatively affect our third-quarter comparisons, including swings in foreign exchange and timing effects in the downstream, as well as timing of asset sale gains and other transactions.

Year-to-date, earnings are down about 13% versus 2011, which was a record earnings year. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 17.4% and our debt ratio at the end of September was 8.5%. In the third quarter, we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares. In the fourth quarter, we expect to repurchase the same amount.

Turning to slide 4, cash generated from operations was almost $8 billion during the quarter, bringing our year-to-date operating cash flow to just over $26 billion, which is net of about a $2 billion build in inventory. At quarter-end, our cash balances were approximately $21 billion and are net cash position was approximately $9 billion.

We have had the right strategies and executed well against them. This has led to excellent financial performance, strong cash generation and total shareholder returns that lead the peer group. Jeff will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.

JEFF GUSTAVSON, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 5, I will compare results of the third quarter 2012 with the second quarter 2012. As a reminder, our earnings release compares third quarter 2012 with the same quarter a year ago. Third-quarter earnings were $5.3 billion, a decrease of approximately $2 billion from second-quarter results. Overall, foreign exchange movements accounted for about 25% of this decline. We moved from a net positive foreign exchange position in second quarter of almost $200 million to a net negative position of nearly $300 million in the third quarter.

Upstream earnings were down $481 million on unfavorable foreign exchange effects and lower production, partly offset by a gain on an asset sale. Downstream results decreased by approximately $1.2 billion between quarters driven primarily by unfavorable inventory valuation effects, lower volumes and lower realized margins. The variance in the Other bar reflects higher corporate charges and an unfavorable swing in corporate tax items.

On slide 6, our US Upstream earnings for the third quarter were $196 million lower than second quarter's results. Lower realizations reduced earnings by $140 million. Although key benchmark crude spot prices were roughly flat between quarters, Chevron's average US crude oil realizations decreased 6% due to the monthly lag on pricing for most of our Gulf of Mexico volumes. This was partly offset by a 21% increase in natural gas realizations between periods.

Lower production volumes, primarily due to disruptions from Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico, decreased earnings by $85 million between periods. The Other bar reflects a number of items, including an increase in operating expenses related to higher maintenance and other production-related activities, as well as lower exploration expenses during the quarter.

Turning to slide 7, International Upstream earnings were $285 million lower than the second quarter. An unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects decreased earnings by $470 million. The third quarter had foreign exchange losses of approximately $250 million compared to gains of $220 million during the second quarter. As a reminder, these are primarily balance sheet translation effects. Lower liftings, primarily due to planned turnarounds in Kazakhstan and the UK, decreased earnings by $235 million. The gain from the previously announced sale of an equity interest in the Wheatstone LNG project increased earnings by about $600 million. The sale supports our strategies and growth plans for LNG in the region expanding our existing partnership with Tokyo Electric who have committed to total LNG offerings of 4.2 million tons per year from the Wheatstone project. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including higher DD&A, as well as higher operating expenses largely associated with turnaround activities.

Slide 8 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Production decreased 108,000 barrels per day between quarters. We had previously indicated that the third quarter would include higher turnaround and maintenance activity and it did. Planned turnaround activities, primarily in Kazakhstan and the UK, decreased production by 78,000 barrels per day. The second-generation plant, or SGP, turnaround at Tengizchevroil, or TCO, started the first of August and lasted approximately six weeks. This was the first-ever turnaround for this facility and was one of the largest turnarounds Chevron has ever executed.

Annual maintenance at TCO's sour gas injection, or SGI, facility was conducted simultaneously with the SGP turnaround to maximize efficiency and limit production downtime. More than 6500 employees and contractors were involved and more than 2.6 million man hours were worked. Gas and crude were reintroduced into the units in mid-September and production was safely restored. TCO's facilities are currently producing at full capacity. While of a smaller impact, turnarounds in the North Sea at Captain, Britannia and Jade also hurt production this quarter. Production has been restored here as well.

The next bar relates to weather. Weather impacts, primarily Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico, decreased production by 23,000 barrels per day. The base business bar is largely related to the change in our normal field decline rate between periods, which was essentially flat between quarters.

The last bar shows production from recent major capital project startups, which decreased by 5000 barrels per day, compared to the second quarter. We expect production in the fourth quarter to be higher than in the third quarter as production is restored following the weather and maintenance-related downtimes I just described.

For the full year, we expect to come in somewhere around 97% of our original target. You will recall our original target was 2.68 million barrels of oil equivalent production per day. The shortfall is driven primarily by the precautionary shutdown of the Frade Field earlier in the year and delayed startup at Angola LNG.

Next, let's move to Downstream, turning to slide 9. US Downstream earnings decreased $346 million in the third quarter. Lower margins decreased earnings by $20 million driven by significantly weaker marketing margins, which were only partly offset by stronger refining margins. West Coast marketing margins fell more than 40% during the third quarter while product tightness in the West Coast and export demand in the Gulf Coast lifted refining margins modestly.

Overall, the August fire at our Richmond refinery crude unit had little earnings impact for the quarter. The Richmond crude unit is expected to remain off-line through the fourth quarter with restart currently planned for the first quarter of next year. Other units in the refinery continue to operate, although at reduced rates.

Lower volumes decreased earnings by $125 million, primarily related to our Richmond refinery operating at a reduced rate, as well as a slowdown at the Pascagoula refinery due to Hurricane Isaac. Timing effects represented a $180 million negative earnings variance between quarters driven by the revaluation of inventory and mark-to-market effects on derivatives tied to underlying physical positions. The swing between quarters was primarily driven by rising crude and product prices during the third quarter compared to sharply falling prices during the second quarter. The Other bar consists of several unrelated items.

On slide 10, International Downstream earnings were $936 million lower this quarter. Lower realized margins contributed $125 million to the decline. Better crack spreads in Asia were more than offset by falling marketing margins and pricing lag effects for sales of naphtha and jet fuel in key markets.

An unfavorable swing in timing effects, mostly attributable to inventory revaluation, decreased earnings by $340 million. Falling prices in the second quarter resulted in a $190 million gain; whereas rising prices in the third quarter resulted in a $150 million loss. The net earnings impact for the year related to timing is negligible as compared to year-to-date earnings of approximately $1.7 billion in the International Downstream segment.

Lower gains on asset transactions, as well as charges associated with portfolio restructuring in Australia, negatively affected the quarter-to-quarter comparison by $245 million and $100 million respectively. The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including lower shipping results and the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange effects.

Slide 11 covers all other. Third-quarter net charges were $575 million, an increase of $284 million between periods. An unfavorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $134 million decrease to earnings. Corporate charges were $150 million higher in the third quarter. Year-to-date, corporate charges were $1.4 billion, which is higher than our quarterly guidance range of $300 million to $400 million. However, we currently expect fourth-quarter corporate charges to be in line with this guidance. Mike is now going to provide an update on our Downstream operations. Mike.

MIKE WIRTH, EVP, DOWNSTREAM & CHEMICALS, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Jeff. I know many of you on the line are in New York and have had a pretty tough week, so I hope your families are safe and that things get back to normal as soon as possible for you.

Moving to Downstream & Chemicals, overall, it has been another good year so far. We continue to deliver on the commitments we have made and our results back that up.

Turning to slide 13, I will start with financial performance. Through three quarters, we have earned $3.4 billion. This translates to Downstream unit earnings adjusted to exclude special items of $3.10 per barrel, which ranks a close second year-to-date based on competitor earnings announcements earlier this week. Year-to-date adjusted return on capital employed for the full Downstream & Chemicals segment is 18.6%, which also ranks number two among our peers.

Our relative competitive performance on these two measures has steadily improved over 2010 and 2011 and continues to remain strong in 2012. We have got the right strategies and are keenly focused on execution. I am confident we will continue to further improve in the quarters to come.

Moving to slide 14, here is an update on portfolio actions and the milestones we have achieved this year. We have exited eight countries in the Caribbean islands. We have also completed several asset divestments, including our interest in the Alberta Envirofuels isooctane plant in Canada, the fuels terminal and former refinery at Perth Amboy in New Jersey, fuels marketing in Spain and certain businesses of GS Caltex in Korea. And we have recently begun reviewing bids for our fuels businesses in Egypt and Pakistan.

We continue to place emphasis on core markets. We have simplified our model. We have reduced costs while returning scale where we have competitive positions, all designed to deliver stronger returns. Our focus is on value, not volume.

Now let's move to slide 15. Here is an update on our major capital projects starting with Chevron Phillips Chemical. Already a leader in the production of normal alpha olefins, CPChem is constructing the world's largest on-purpose 1-hexene plant at Cedar Bayou, Texas, expected to start up in 2014.

CPChem continues to make good progress in developing a new worldscale ethylene cracker at Cedar Bayou and new polyethylene units at Sweeney. Startup of these plants is expected in 2017 with attractive NGLs supply underpinning this new capacity. In CPChem's Saudi joint venture, Saudi Polymers Company began commercial production last month at their new olefins and derivatives facility in Al-Jubail. With this startup, CPChem becomes the world's largest producer of high-density polyethylene.

Moving to lubricants, construction continues on our Pascagoula base oil plant, which remains on track for planned startup next year. This will leverage surplus hydrogen capacity and make Chevron the largest premium base oil supplier in the world. Our joint venture in Korea, GS Caltex, is building a gas oil cracker, which, when completed early next year, will make Yeosu the largest processor of heavy oil in Korea. This will provide greater feedstock flexibility and additional production of high-value products.

And our additive company, Oronite, is expanding its manufacturing plant in Singapore. Upon completion of this project, expected in 2014, Oronite will have effectively doubled the original size of what is already the largest additives plant in the region. You can see the focus of our investment here, primarily into the more attractive chemicals and lubricants segments. As these projects are brought online in the coming years, they are positioned to generate good returns and earnings growth.

Moving to slide 16, I would like to close with a few observations on market dynamics this year. We continue to see a lot of volatility in both crude and product prices as represented here by the WTI Brent spread and the Gulf Coast unleaded gasoline price. This volatility not only impacts margins, but also creates other effects related to inventory, derivative mark-to-market values, etc. that move through our books as Jeff discussed earlier.

Interestingly, the peaks and valleys this year have largely coincided with quarter-ends, which tends to magnify these effects, even though average pricing across the quarters would suggest much less movement. I realize that these are difficult to anticipate and model, which is why Jeff provided some insight into the direction and magnitude of these effects in the prior two quarters. I tend to look at our performance on a year-to-date basis or a rolling multiple quarter basis where these movements tend to reverse or offset themselves.

On slide 17, I have got data over a two-month stretch of time for the US West Coast. The West Coast market, the West Coast gasoline market in particular, is somewhat unique in that it is relatively isolated from the world market by geography, logistics and product specification. When the West Coast refineries are all operating normally, product supply is adequate to meet demand. In fact, given the demand declines of recent years, we even tend to see some capacity to export. However, when supplies move to the low end of their historical range, for whatever reason, the price typically moves up. This reflects the higher cost of resupply due to both specification and logistical hurdles and the uncertainty on timing of resupply. This happened earlier this year and again last month when some capacity went off-line due to power interruptions at a time when inventories had already been declining. The moveup in prices was sharp until the market recognized that the capacity would come back online and supplies would rebuild.

I note this because California has embarked on a path of even greater isolation from world fuel markets with its greenhouse gas regulations. The industry is facing requirements to source blend stocks like Brazilian ethanol from relatively small and distant sources or to blend in non-existent stocks like cellulosic biofuels. The pressure on an already high-cost supply chain and potential for further refinery rationalization is only likely to further increase the price premium California consumers pay and also the likelihood of price spikes like we have seen this year.

Chevron has two of the three largest refineries on the West Coast with good feedstock and product flexibility. We have the leading retail marketshare. We have been in California for more than 100 years. We understand these markets and are positioned to compete well through a period of change and uncertainty. That concludes my remarks and now I would like to turn it back over to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: All right, thanks, Mike. Turning now to slide 18, I would like to focus on recent Upstream developments and strategic progress. On the exploration front, we announced further drilling in the Greater Gorgon area with the Satyr-2 and Satyr-4 wells, our 15th and 16th discoveries in Australia since mid-2009. These new discoveries further highlight the quality of Chevron's exploration capabilities and the continued growth of our vast natural gas resources base in the Carnarvon Basin.

On a related note, I want to point out that the picture that you see on this slide, we have now successfully raised the roof on the second LNG tank at Gorgon. We also made new additions to our worldwide exploration portfolio, having been awarded participation in two deepwater blocks located offshore Sierra Leone. We have a significant presence in this region already and are pleased to have the opportunity to participate in the Republic of Sierra Leone's promising deepwater exploration efforts.

We sanctioned the Lianzi project located in a unitized offshore zone between Angola and the Republic of Congo. It is the first cross-border development in the region and builds on Chevron's strong position in West Africa. We acquired additional interest in the Clio and Acme Fields through an exchange, which was announced in August. This exchange is strategic and fits nicely with our long-term plans to grow our Australian resource base and create expansion opportunities for the Wheatstone project.

Also of note this quarter, we completed the previously announced sale of an equity interest in the Wheatstone project to Tokyo Electric. And finally, as recently announced, we acquired an additional 246,000 net acres in the Permian Basin. This new acreage, plus our existing acreage, gives us a net leasehold position of about 1.5 million acres. I would like to say a bit more about this acquisition and our overall positioning plans in the Permian.

Turning to slide 19, this slide shows our significant acreage position both within and adjacent to the Permian Basin shown in dark green on the chart. The map on the chart shows our existing lease positions in yellow, as well as the recently acquired acreage in light blue. The new acreage strategically complements our existing operations and provides us with additional growth potential in the Permian.

The Permian extends from West Texas into the southeast New Mexico and includes several component bases, including the Midland and Delaware Basins. Chevron is one of the largest hydrocarbon producers in the Permian with approximately 114,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day production during 2011.

We have over 550,000 net acres in the Midland Basin. Our current focus areas include the Wolfcamp, Cline and Atoka shales and we are on pace to drill ourselves and with partners over 300 wells in 2012. In the highly prospective Delaware Basin, where most of the recently acquired acreage resides, our near-term focus will be on the Bone Springs formation, as well as the Avalon and Wolfcamp shales. We are on pace to drill 12 operated wells during 2012, as well as 16 non-operated wells.

The acquisition has also provided us access to additional people and resources to execute our base business and growth strategy in the area. While our production in the basin dates back to the 1920s, our existing and recently acquired acreage holds significant future potential as these are early in life, liquids-rich, unconventional assets in a premier emerging play. We plan to provide greater detail on our plans in this area at our security analyst meeting this coming March in New York City.

Turning now to slide 20, I would like to close my prepared remarks with a few key points. 2012 is all about execution and we are doing well. We continue to progress our major capital projects, both Upstream and Downstream. We are over 50% complete on Gorgon. Our Wheatstone project is also progressing well. I encourage you to follow our progress and to view some recent Gorgon and Wheatstone flyover videos and presentations, which are now available on our website.

Our two key deepwater Gulf of Mexico major capital projects, Jack/St. Malo and Bigfoot, continue to be on schedule. We remain confident we are on track to hit our longer-term target of 3.3 million barrels of oil equivalent production per day by 2017. This volume growth, combined with industry-leading Upstream margins, which were $23.88 per barrel year-to-date, is a large part of the Chevron value proposition for investors.

Another strong and growing element of value for investors has been our distributions to shareholders. We are currently paying out about $12 billion annually through dividends and share repurchases and we offer an attractive 3.2% yield.

Now this concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to take your questions. We do have a full queue, so please limit yourself to one question and a single follow-up if necessary. We will do our best to see that we get your questions answered. Sean, please open the lines.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, good morning, everybody and thanks, as always, for the additional information. It is helpful. My first question for Pat. I mean I know it may be premature, but I know, last year, Chevron made a competitive dividend raise and with CapEx likely higher in '13, how do you think about drawing on the large net cash balance to continue to drive a superior and competitive dividend yield as you really bridge to the production growth and harvesting the capital investment that you are making now and in 2014 and beyond? I have a follow-up, please.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, Evan. I think it is a good question, but frankly I think you have sort of outlined our philosophy there just in asking the question. We do pay attention to and want to remain highly competitive on our dividend stream and that is why you have seen us over the last several years grow the dividend rate very aggressively, 11% compounded per year.

As we look forward, we want to continue that pattern. We obviously do see, once we get into the high-growth periods when the major capital projects come online, we do see significant cash generation coming forward there. We take that into account. We take a look at what our investment profile needs to be between now and then and all of those factors get brought into the mix.

Our view of medium-term commodity prices get brought into the mix and it is based on all of those factors that we then go forward and have a discussion with our Board about our dividend policy. I think it is very safe to say that our Board takes our dividend responsibilities very seriously and our desire to remain competitive and grow that stream of income for our investors is a high priority item. In fact it is the single highest priority of cash use.

EVAN CALIO: That is helpful. And if I could have a follow-up to take advantage of Mike being on the call. Mike, I know you have talked about the positive trends in the baseload business in the past and you are increasing your premium baseload capacity at Pascagoula. This is generally a less transparent business in general. Maybe you can give us an overview of just that US market, your returns expectations for this $1.4 billion expansion and whether or not there is any additional base oil expansion potential at places like Salt Lake where I know there is also a local high paraffinic crude source. Thanks.

MIKE WIRTH: Yes, so it is a market that is a little less transparent, a little less well understood. In broad terms, the largest portion of the current base oil is a lower technology product called group I, which is made through a relatively simpler process of solvent dewaxing. That is a lower performing product and ultimately, as we see specifications evolve to higher performance standards and engines evolve to meet more stringent environmental regulations, you are seeing the OEMs migrate to a higher quality lubricant, which is the group II plus or premium base oils, which are made through a hydroprocessing technology, which Chevron actually is one of the two primary licensors in the world for and we have some distinct technology advantages there.

So the group II or the premium base oil market is a higher margin market and it is the rapidly growing market as the group I market declines in demand. So you've got absolute demand growth for lubricants and within that, you have got group I, which is the larger portion today shrinking in size. And so the premium market is growing quite rapidly with the higher margins.

So that is the broad context for that. We have got a large facility at Richmond right now that manufactures premium base oils. With Pascagoula, we will move past Shell to be the largest in the world and that product will go not only into the US market, but Europe is a large market and has a very high specification standard. There is growth in Latin America, so Pascagoula will feed markets well beyond North America and actually allow us to rebalance some of the Richmond barrels into the growth markets in Asia.

We do have reviews underway for additional investments in that sector. They likely would be in Asia rather than in Salt Lake City because of the proximity to the markets and some of our existing refining infrastructure that we have in Asia. Although you might have an advantaged feedstock that you could use at Salt Lake City, the volumes there would be relatively small. The logistics disadvantaged to get it to the large growth markets would be nontrivial. And so I wouldn't expect to see something happen at Salt Lake City, but you certainly could expect to hear more in the future about potential projects in Asia.

EVAN CALIO: Any comment on returns and I will leave it at that? Thanks.

MIKE WIRTH: The returns would be well higher than what we typically get out of our refining projects and we expect returns on these kinds of projects to be up in the 20%-ish range.

EVAN CALIO: Wonderful. Thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, thanks, everyone. Just I guess while we have got Mike on the phone some Downstream questions. Just an update on Richmond.

MIKE WIRTH: Yes, so at Richmond, as Jeff mentioned, the crude unit remains offline today and will remain offline through the balance of the fourth quarter with an expected startup in the first quarter of next year. We are working closely with outside investigators, as well as conducting our own investigation to determine the root cause of the incident and then to share the learnings of that, not only broadly within our own organization, but also across the industry to try to prevent similar things from happening anywhere.

The preliminary results of our investigation have identified a damage mechanism known as high-temperature sulfidation corrosion, which led to a general thinning of the piping component that failed. We are waiting for definitive metallurgical testing to confirm that, but it is strongly suspected that that is the technical mechanism. The questions as to why that corrosion had not been identified and addressed are really still the focus of our investigation.

We are working closely with multiple agencies and the city, the county and the regional air quality district to expedite the permitting process and effect the repairs to the crude unit. That work is well underway. Long lead items have been ordered and some have already arrived. The work is underway to thoroughly inspect every component within the crude unit and complete the repairs with, as I said, an expected restart in the first quarter of next year.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. Thanks for that, Mike. And then just switching to Chemicals, I mean obviously you have got the big ethane cracker; you have got the hexene-1 plant. Global demand for chemicals is still going to grow, but the Middle East is maybe a little bit short on low-cost gas. When you are thinking about participating in global growth, just maybe a philosophical question, are there opportunities for you to continue to deploy capital beyond that ethane cracker or is it better to just sort of hold with what you have and focus on sort of free cash generation for the Corporation?

MIKE WIRTH: Well, it is a good question. It is one that we spend time on with CPChem and certainly at the Board there where our partner participates. We are, I think, pretty well-aligned, but we would look for other attractive opportunities. CPChem's real strengths have been in the olefins and polyolefins chain. It is underpinned by attractive feedstock in the Middle East, as you mentioned and also the position they have in the US, which is highly levered to NGL cracking as opposed to naphtha cracking.

So the keys in that business are scale, cost efficiency and good feedstock pricing. I think the big opportunities continue to be in the Middle East and North America, although you can't ignore Asia given the size of the market and the demand growth that you see over there, but some of the feed opportunities are not the same in Asia.

So we are supportive of growth beyond the ethane cracker if we can find a project that has the characteristics that have underpinned the success of CPChem's investments here in recent years and we continue to look for those. And while they may not be easy in the Middle East or in North America, for that matter, I don't think they are impossible. So we continue to look for further opportunities, but we wouldn't support projects that are not strong in their underlying fundamentals for the sake of growth.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks. And also just thanks, before I sign off, to Melody and Roy, to everyone, for the great trip to Gorgon. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thanks. Thought you would appreciate seeing the second tank with a roof on it now.

ED WESTLAKE: No photos of us around the bottom of it?

JEFF GUSTAVSON: We have got those.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, everybody. I also have a couple of questions for Mike. First, I wanted to see if there was an update on the $1 billion return enhancement plan for 2012. Meaning what progress has been made on the operating expense and margin improvement categories and also, you guys have had continuous improvement over the last several years I think as you mentioned a minute ago. Are new programs possible for '13?

And then second, the plan to close the Sydney refinery should reduce the losses at Caltex in refining and while I realize that the Brisbane plant is advantaged from a yield perspective, is it clear that it is advantaged enough given the scale of some of the new plants that are coming up in the region or are there other strategic reasons to keep that plant open? So two questions.

MIKE WIRTH: Okay. On the $1 billion improvement target that we had set for our refining system, I will tell you that we're well on our way to meeting that. In fact, that was measured against an '08 baseline and that was a multiyear program and as we began this year, we were closing in on the $1 billion. I can tell you that we are very, very close to that and I fully anticipate that, as we close this year out, we will have more than met the commitment there.

The extension of the improvement efforts that we have seen over the recent years I would tell you are really going to be in the area of continual improvement on margin -- self-created margin improvements and continued focus on cost.

The big things that we have done in the portfolio are largely behind us. I mentioned a number of those today and we are closing out some pieces of that. The large restructuring of our organization is behind us. We are managing to hold that in terms of headcount and cost very steady and not seeing erosion of those benefits. And now I think the future improvements will come in the form of steady, regular expectations for continual improvement on both the margin and the cost side within the business as opposed to the big transformational effort that you saw over the last few years. And I think we have every reason to believe that we can continue to grind out further improvements in that arena.

The other thing that will drive financial performance with some of the investments I talked about, which will add strong returns and good earnings growth. So we intend to continue to improve the financial performance of the business.

On Australia, the Kurnell closure was announced and you mentioned the plant at Lytton, which is in Brisbane. The decisions on those assets are made by the Board of Caltex Australia, which is 50% owned by Chevron and 50% publicly traded and so really comments on the future of that particular asset are best addressed to them through their IR group. I think they have made some public statements about Brisbane and the fact that it is of similar scale to Kurnell and it faces similar competitors as you mentioned regionally is not something that I think is lost on the Board or the management of that company. But they are really the ones that need to address the future of that asset.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, good answers. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Arjun Murti, Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Just another CPChem question. When that joint venture was formed, I think it was originally with Phillips Petroleum over 10 years ago. I mean the outlook for US chemicals and chemicals itself was very different. It was more about cost-cutting, rationalization, and you have been very successful with that.

As the business shift towards potentially being more of a growth mode, are you still comfortable with the 50/50 joint venture? I know you have been very aligned with all the successor companies, ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66, but is that still the right structure for this asset? Are there other or better ways to optimize value? Is there a requirement for it to generate free cash flow, or would you be willing for this asset to take in cash if there were more attractive investment opportunities? Thank you.

MIKE WIRTH: Well, you are a good student of the history there. It really did start out in a pretty tough environment, particularly in North America. The first decade or a large part of it was characterized by cost reductions, and essentially a fix it or exit approach to a number of the businesses that had been struggling to perform. And that has been a very successful strategy.

The latter part of the last decade, we began to see some of these new projects particularly in the Middle East come on, and those have been quite successful. And now we find a portfolio in North America that is well positioned relative to NGL feedstock. So it has been a very successful venture, I think, for both shareholders. And as you mentioned, we have stayed quite well aligned with our partners even as they have gone through some changes in ownership from Philips to ConocoPhillips and now Phillips 66.

Both companies injected not only their assets but really their human capability in the chemicals sector into that business, and I think we have been well served by that. I don't have any particular reason to believe that the structure we have got right now won't continue to be successful for us. We have -- CPChem has actually paid down their debt, and so we have not asked for cash to come back to the shareholders but rather asked for them to pay down the debt. And they have substantial cash generation capability today which will self-fund all the projects that we see on the drawing board for them for the foreseeable future.

And I think we would deal with, if there were attractive opportunities to invest in that business that required us to bring cash into the entity, there is no reason why we wouldn't do that.

ARJUN MURTI: That is very helpful, Mike. And maybe just a related follow-up. You have obviously got a massive Marcellus position in the Utica potentially as well. Do the economics of a cracker in that area make sense to you, or is it more logical for the gas to get shipped to the Gulf Coast and get processed there into a potential cracker?

MIKE WIRTH: Well, it is a really interesting question and I think there are some different opinions out there on that. The plus on the Marcellus and potentially the Utica is obviously the high volumes of gas liquids that we could see in that area. What is lacking is the infrastructure, so the frac plants, the logistics and the ability to support a cracker with the midstream assets that are so plentiful and well-developed down in the Gulf Coast.

And so I think it remains an open question as to whether or not enough of that midstream supporting infrastructure will really emerge that would give you the reliable supply and the ability to operate a worldscale cracker on a highly competitive and reliable basis or not. Somebody is going to have to build out some of that infrastructure and there is certainly some of that activity underway, but the Gulf Coast has clearly got that in abundance and to the extent you can transport the gas liquids to Mont Belvieu and into that infrastructure, that is a real advantage.

And so at this point, that is certainly where we have chosen to place our bet on the belief that that infrastructure is mature and in place. And I think we will just have to wait and see how the future unfolds for potential investments up in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, etc.

ARJUN MURTI: That is great. Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning, everybody. I have one for Pat and one for Mike please. Pat, just quickly on the CapEx, it looks like we're running a little bit light versus the budget for the year. Can you just give us an update? Do you expect things to be back-end loaded or are we actually going to come in a little bit less than we thought?

PAT YARRINGTON: Doug, if you look at our pattern over the last several years first quarter, second quarter, third quarter and then fourth quarter, we typically are back-end loaded in terms of the expenditure profile. But if you look at 2012 and how that pattern has unfolded relative to the pattern in '11, the pattern in '10, the pattern in '09, etc., it is exactly per a typical approach for us. So yes, I think the answer is we will be back-end loaded, but it is nothing that is unanticipated or not expected.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay, thanks for that. Mike, this one is kind of a double-edged question I guess, but Richmond obviously has had its issues in the past and the commentary you made in your prepared remarks regarding California, we have seen a couple of your competitors talk about whether strategically California makes sense for them going forward given the amount of capital that could be required or cost basis and so on. I am just curious as to whether you would ever consider either -- exiting I guess is unlikely -- but doing something different with those assets? Or to go completely in the other direction, if there were opportunities to maybe consolidate the West Coast and maybe reap some synergies that could offset some of those additional costs -- I am just wondering strategically how you view your position on Downstream on the West Coast, whether it is core or not and I will leave it at that. Thanks.

MIKE WIRTH: Okay. Well, I will start out with the fact that it is core. I mean it has been -- it is where our Downstream business began. It is where -- as I said, we have been here for 110 years. It is one of the largest markets for fuels in the world and we have weathered the good times and the difficult times here and we have seen the cycles.

The second part of your question -- would we consider some sort of a consolidation. I will tell you that is pretty difficult to do from the standpoint of market concentration. We have got -- as I said, we have got two of the three largest refineries on the West Coast today and I am not sure it is practical that we would be able to acquire another refining asset and get that through all the approval processes. So unless something changes externally, I am not sure that is a realistic scenario.

We do look at alternate configurations. We look at alternate modes of operation. We are pretty circumspect about capital investments into a market as this overhang of regulatory uncertainty that exists today. But it has been a very good business for us. A couple of key attributes -- our refineries sit very high in the competitive stack on complexity and net cash margin. So they are not only large, but they are able to take in a variety of feedstocks. They make a good slate of high-value products and relative to our competition, they generate margins that sit at the very top. So they are big and they are more profitable than the competition.

El Segundo, in particular, also is well-integrated into our Upstream business. We run a lot of San Joaquin Valley heavy crude at El Segundo and in fact, a number of projects in recent years have allowed us to bring more of that into El Segundo and so there are benefits that not only accrue in the Downstream but also accrue in the Upstream.

So it is a core position. It is a highly competitive position. We have weathered the cycles here and would believe that we can make a go of it here if anybody can because we know these markets and we have been through the cycles. The uncertainty that you refer to, and I know -- I have heard some of the others in the industry talk about it, California has a go it alone plan on greenhouse gas emissions and it will further deteriorate what is already a weak economy and it will make no meaningful impact on global greenhouse gas emissions. There will be a negative impact on jobs, on consumers and by design and by intent, AB 32 and the low-carbon fuel standard will raise fuel prices and further isolate this market from the rest of the world.

So it runs the risk of disadvantaging California businesses by imposing a higher cost that aren't borne by out-of-state competitors and the policy is one that we have real questions about. So we are working with a variety of stakeholders to make sure that the additional costs and market risks are well-understood and transparent, not only understood by the government and regulators, but also consumers and businesses and we think they need to understand what we are headed into.

And at the same time, we're working on our own plans for how to operate and compete in a world where those regulations come into effect and how we can continue to be the strongest competitor in that market. So it is not simple or straightforward and there are some uncertainties, but we believe we can compete better than anybody in that environment.

DOUG LEGGATE: I appreciate the full answer. Thanks, Mike.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning. I just had a couple -- two Upstream questions. On Kazakhstan and specifically TCO, can you just give us an idea of where we are in the cycle of the turnarounds because I know this year was a significant turnaround, one of the largest you said in the history of the plant? And it looks like last year, there may have been some downtime too. So I am struggling to understand a little bit the cycle of these turnarounds and how large they can be because it had a very large impact on production.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. I mean the turnarounds that we had this time of SGI really was the first time that we have had a significant turnaround in over the five-year period of time. But there can be intermittent, once-a-year KTL train downtime that are just a normal part of the maintenance program. This was a very significant turnaround. It is not expected to have this kind of an impact in successive years here until there is the next big turnaround five years from now. But you can get individual KTL trains that go down per year.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, fair enough. And then can you give us an update on Angola LNG? Like I may have missed your prepared remarks on that, but just trying to figure out where we are with the gas to the plant and also with the LNG production.

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure. I mean we are still going through kind of the startup process for the plant. We have had some startup problems and we are not anticipating at this point that there will be any significant production from ALNG in 2012. It is not unusual to have startup problems as you're going through the commissioning effort. Admittedly, we have had a little bit more problems this time than we would have typically expected, but we do look for ALNG production, first LNG to be with us in the first quarter of 2013.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, thanks for the time.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Hi, guys, good morning. Mike, two quick questions. On slide 10, when you are looking at sequentially through the second quarter, say in international refining, the margin is down $125 million. Can you tell us -- I must be missing something because all the benchmark indicators I track, whether it is in Singapore, Japan, they seem to have sequentially up from the second quarter and all your competitors seems to have that. So is there any particular market that has seen a down margin environment or are there any particular product that is important to you that has seen that?

MIKE WIRTH: Yes, so let me -- it is a little counterintuitive, Paul. If you look at the Dubai 3-1-1, which is a pretty good proxy for Asian refining margins, the 1-1-1 is gasoline, diesel and fuel oil. It doesn't include naphtha or LPG, both of which have been hammered really hard in the marketplace. So the realized refining margin that you would expect out of 3-1-1 isn't actually as strong as -- what you get isn't as strong as what you would expect because you have got the naphtha and LPG.

A couple of our refineries, they are GS Caltex and our Singapore refinery, are large and they make a fair amount of both of those products. There is also some crude lags in a couple of those affiliates that can squeeze their margins that you wouldn't see in the 3-1-1. So there is a piece of it where the capture on that is not as strong as the indicator.

The other thing that is not as transparent I think if you are looking at those indicators as we see in our actuals are the marketing margins. And marketing margins are down in general in a rising market. In particular, our large position in Korea has been squeezed by the government and some government intervention in that market and more so than in other markets. And so we have definitely seen some under-realization of what we would like to see in marketing margins in Korea.

And then we have lagged pricing on a number of our products in marketing. So jet and naphtha both get sold on a prior-month basis and in a rising market, those prices were weak anyway and now you are selling on a prior month, so you are selling even at a lower value relative to current in a rising market. So there is a number of components like that that are not apparent in a headline refining crack indicator, all of which in this market that we have seen in the third quarter are going in the opposite direction of the stronger refining margin.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. The second question, I think a lot of people have been looking at using railroad as maybe a relatively near-term and effective way to ship the discount crude to their refining operation. Can you maybe better help us to understand if there is any active or major initiative that you guys are contemplating or you are currently thinking to ship those discount crude to your say three coastal refineries or the opportunity set is not really there for California at all?

MIKE WIRTH: Well, it is certainly something that we look at. We have run Bakken crude on the West Coast already. We have run Eagle Ford at Pascagoula, not in large volumes, but we do understand the logistics to get those discounted crudes into our big coastal refineries. As you say, on this crude disconnect, it is like real estate. It is location, location, location. And our large coastal refineries are distant from where these advantages really are.

You can get Bakken crude up into the Pacific Northwest via rail. You then have the challenge of how do you get it down to the West Coast. You can do that with barge, you can do it with further rail and so you have got trans-shipment costs and then you have got to have the offloading capability in your refineries and our refineries really weren't set up for large rail-based receipts of crudes.

So the logistics are tough into the coastal refineries. They are very good into a couple of our smaller refineries. Our refinery in British Columbia and our refinery in Salt Lake City have pipeline connections to discounted crudes and have been able to take full advantage of that. So we have seen some of our assets that have benefited.

The other thing I would just remind you on the big coastal refineries is they have other advantages that they have historically had, which they continue to capture relative to our lightering on the West Coast and some advantages we have there. Pascagoula runs some discounted Latin American grades and has a lot of flexibility to bring those in. And so you're constantly optimizing the crude slates on your landed cost of crude via rail or versus these other modalities. And so that is a part of the normal business. We are certainly doing everything we can to take advantage of the discounted crudes in those refineries, but the opportunities get chewed up a lot in the transportation.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you. Pat, can I sneak in a quick one for you?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, we have got some more folks on the line, Paul. Let's move on, if you don't mind and we can obviously take them off-line.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. No problem.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thanks very much. And actually before we get to the next call, I just want to make a point. I misspoke before on the turnaround, got my acronyms mixed up here. So the SGP is the unit that goes down once every four years or so. SGI and the KTLs are down typically once a year. So I just wanted to make that clarification. Okay, we will take the next questioner.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Thank you. At the risk of exasperating Mike on the California issues, Mike, have you done any or do you have any estimates on what the potential incremental cost is going to be from complying with the greenhouse emissions? And I guess I am thinking both in terms of any of the environmental CapEx that you have put into the business and any uplift in operating expense, although recognizing you might be able to pass that onto the consumer. And then I guess really what I am leading to -- do you get to a situation where you may be better off sourcing CARBOB outside of California and then just shipping it to your refineries?

MIKE WIRTH: Well, there is a wide range of potential incremental costs, Jason and the reality is our refineries are amongst the most energy-efficient refineries in the world and our stationary source emissions are very, very low. The opportunity to spend further capital to mitigate stack emissions of CO2 are -- they are just about tapped out. And so your choices are go into the market to buy credits and that could be something that we will see where the market price goes on that, but we really don't have a lot of opportunity other than cutting runs and restricting supply. There are some who believe that is the ultimate way that we will see people comply is just reducing their throughputs, which tightens up the market, which runs the price risk.

When you get -- if you get fuels under the cap and trade, which is anticipated out towards the middle of this decade, the costs explode and that is where you go from cost in the hundreds of millions of dollars a year to costs in the billions of dollars a year. And frankly, all of this stuff has got to go through to the market. We cannot absorb it and I don't intend to absorb it. And so the expectation is that, as we see hundreds of millions or billions of dollars of increased cost, that translates through into the price of the product. And that was the basis for my comment earlier that California's consumers will continue to pay a higher premium than the rest of the country. And that is the policy path that we are on.

The issue of CARBOB imports is one that we are very sensitive to because if those imports are not subject to some of the same obligations that manufacturers are, then you have got a competitive disadvantage and that is a subject of discussion with the regulators. And if, in fact, it were more economic to import than to manufacture here then that is very well what we could do. That has got real implications for jobs and investment.

So it is still an evolving and uncertain environment and frankly, we are trying to help people understand the implications of these things if it stays on the track that it is on right now and the implications are all bad.

JASON GAMMEL: As a former California resident, you have got my sympathies.

MIKE WIRTH: Well, thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, I think we are running over our time here. So perhaps one more question and then we will have to close it off.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Hi, good morning, everyone. Mike, can I ask you more of a macro question? I heard one of your competitors saying yesterday they thought we were close to the bottom of the chemical cycle. I am not sure whether he was talking about the naphtha-based or ethane-based, but can you maybe make a comment on that? And also from your perspective, where you think the Downstream product market is in terms of demand, growth or decline, in your areas of focus -- Asia and the US.

MIKE WIRTH: Yes, I don't know exactly what you heard yesterday. What I would tell you is that the Chemicals business has been good for those that have gas liquids-based feeds. And so -- and that is mostly what CPChem has. Naphtha-based crackers have been in a pretty tough environment. They are the marginal producer and with high crude oil prices, naphtha-based cracking margins have not been very attractive at all. And so we do continue to see growth in demand for the derivatives in the polyolefin chain.

So if there is a belief we are at the bottom of the cycle because we see market demand growth and perhaps some improvement in naphtha-based cracking margins, that comes on top of what are already pretty good ethane-based cracking margins and so it very well could be the portfolio differences between what we see in our portfolio and what somebody else may see in theirs would account for a different view of the cycle.

The second question on the broader fuels trends and demand, I am a pessimist to be honest with you. Europe continues to be a real problem. The recovery in the US is not, in my view and the things we see through the people we sell to, not as robust as you might believe if you read the headlines and I will give you a couple of other specific data points more globally.

If I look at our sales of marine lubricants, they have steadily declined for the last several months. If I look at our sales of base oil, they have steadily declined for the last several months. Our sales of lubricants in Asia have steadily declined for the last several months. Our sales of additives in Asia have steadily declined for the last several months. And so we watch these trends pretty carefully because those are sales into industrial sectors and marine transport is a leading indicator of global economic activity. And you can see destocking and sometimes there is a fakeout where you just see inventories being pulled down and there really isn't an underlying demand trend, but what we have seen has gone on for enough months that it causes concerns in my mind about the direction of the global economy. I think China has definitely been slower than people anticipated and you don't have the strength in the other regions in the world as well.

So I continue to believe that refining margins -- although, this year, we have seen a little bit of strength primarily in the distillate part of the barrel, I do not believe the fundamentals for stronger refining margins exist out there. We see more capacity coming online, particularly in China and I think there are real risks on the demand side of the equation.

So we are not building our plans or banking on maintenance of refining margins that we have seen this year and certainly not on improvements. I think we have to be prepared for a tough refining margin market out there for the near to medium term.

IAIN REID: Mike, thank you very much, indeed.

MIKE WIRTH: You bet.

PAT YARRINGTON: All right, let me close off here. Let me say that we really do appreciate everyone's participation in the call today and your interest in Chevron. I especially want to thank the analysts on behalf of all the participants for their questions during the session. So with that, I will close it off and turn it back to you, Sean.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's third-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | c184 : Joint Ventures | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | salt : Salt Lake City | namz : North America | usut : Utah | usw : Western U.S.
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121116e8b2006my
  


 HD
 Q2  2012  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,532 words
   PD
27 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning my name is Kevin and I will be your conference operator today. Welcome to the Chevron second-quarter 2012 earnings conference call.

   TD
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Good morning and thank you, Kevin. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter earnings conference call and webcast.

On the call with me today are George Kirkland, Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Upstream and Gas, and Jeanette Ourada, General Manager, Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide two.

Slide three provides an overview of our financial performance. Financially it was a strong quarter. The Company's second-quarter earnings were $7.2 billion, or $3.66 per diluted share. Comparing the second quarter 2012 to the same quarter a year earlier, our earnings declined 7%.

Upstream was down on lower crude prices and volumes, while Downstream benefited from improved margins and gains on asset sales. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was about 20%. Our debt ratio at the end of June was 7.3%. In the second quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares. In the third quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.

Relative to our peers, as of June 30, we hold the number one ranking in total shareholder return for the three-year, five-year, and 10-year periods, and actually for every period in between. We believe this clearly demonstrates the long-term value we are creating for our shareholders.

Turning to slide four, cash generated from operations was almost $10 billion during the second quarter. At quarter end our cash balances totaled over $21 billion. This puts us in a net cash position of $11 billion.

Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jeanette?

JEANETTE OURADA, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide five I will compare results of the second quarter 2012 with the first quarter 2012. As a reminder, our earnings release compares second quarter 2012 with the same quarter a year ago.

Second-quarter earnings were $7.2 billion, over $700 million higher than the first-quarter results. Upstream earnings were down $551 million on lower crude oil realizations, partly offset by favorable foreign exchange effects. Downstream results improved $1.1 billion between quarters driven by better margins and favorable inventory effects. The variance in the other bar reflects lower corporate charges and a favorable swing in corporate tax items.

On slide six our U.S. Upstream earnings for the second quarter were $211 million lower than the first quarter's results. Combined liquids and natural gas realizations reduced earnings by $145 million. Chevron's average U.S. crude oil realization decreased 4% between consecutive quarters, substantially less than the roughly 9% drop in average WTI spot and posted Midway-Sunset prices.

Gulf of Mexico realizations actually increased between quarters due to the monthly lag on pricing of HLS, Mars, and LLS. Natural gas realizations also dropped, decreasing 13% between quarters. Higher production volumes, primarily in the Gulf of Mexico and California, increased earnings by $40 million between periods.

The other bar reflects a number of other unrelated items, including incremental abandonment costs due to 2005 and 2008 hurricanes and higher exploration expense.

Turning to slide seven, international Upstream earnings were $340 million lower than the first quarter. Lower realizations reduced earnings by $525 million. Liquids realizations decreased 10%, in line with the decrease in average Brent spot prices. Partially offsetting were higher natural gas realizations which increased earnings by $25 million.

Lower liftings, mainly in Brazil and Australia, decreased earnings by $130 million. Higher operating expenses reduced earnings by $40 million, reflecting higher costs across multiple categories.

Moving to the next bar, a favorable swing in foreign currency effects increased earnings by about $425 million. The second quarter had a gain of $219 million compared to a loss of $208 million in the first quarter. The total year-to-date impact is a favorable $11 million.

The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including higher exploration expense.

Slide eight summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Production decreased 7,000 barrels per day between quarters. Lower prices increased volumes under our production sharing and variable royalty contracts during the second quarter, increasing production about 7,000 barrels per day.

Average Brent spot prices decreased about $10 per barrel between quarters, which resulted in about a 700 barrel per day volume increase for each dollar decrease in Brent.

Moving to the next bar, our Frade field in Brazil remains shut in for the quarter reducing production by 25,000 barrels per day. Recall in mid-March the Frade field was shut in as a precautionary measure. It remained shut in throughout the second quarter.

Base business production decreased 30,000 barrels per day, largely driven by lower Tengiz volume due to a planned KTL turnaround, a shortfall in railcars resulting from railroad repairs at the Russian border, and lower processing efficiencies. Incremental production for major capital projects benefited second-quarter production by 41,000 barrels per day, primarily driven by ramp ups at Usan in Nigeria and Caesar Tonga in the Gulf of Mexico.

Next, let's move to Downstream. Turning to slide nine, U.S. Downstream earnings increased $343 million in the second quarter. Improved margins increased earnings by $275 million driven by significantly better marketing margins in the West Coast and higher refining margins on both the Gulf and West Coast.

Industry refinery maintenance in both regions and continued strong product export demand on the Gulf Coast, combined with the rapid drop in crude prices, generated higher margins. Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $35 million, resulting from higher costs across multiple categories.

Timing effects represented a $130 million positive earnings variance between quarters, primarily driven by favorable mark-to-market effects on derivatives tied to underlying physical positions. The other bar consists of several unrelated items.

On slide 10 international Downstream earnings were $734 million higher this quarter. Refining and marketing margins rose increasing earnings by $305 million. This resulted from the absence of first-quarter planned turnaround activities in South Korea and from declining crude price impacts across the system.

Inventory effects increased earnings by $325 million, primarily due to falling prices in the second quarter following rising first-quarter prices. Recall in the first quarter I called out a $225 million negative earnings variance due to unfavorable inventory impacts. The net impact for the year is a $29 million positive impact to earnings.

Gains from asset sales were slightly lower, decreasing earnings by $15 million. Approximately $200 million of gains on assets in the second quarter nearly matched first quarter's gains on asset sales in Spain and Canada. The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including higher volume, improved trading results, and lower turnaround costs.

Slide 11 covers All Other. Second-quarter net charges were $291 million compared to a net $504 million charge in the first quarter, a decrease of $213 million between periods. A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $77 million benefit to earnings.

Corporate charges were $136 million lower in the second quarter. Year-to-date corporate charges were $795 million. We believe our quarterly guidance range of $300 million to $400 million for net charges in the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.

George is now going to provide an update on our Upstream operations. George?

GEORGE KIRKLAND, VICE CHAIRMAN & EVP, UPSTREAM AND GAS, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jeanette. It is good to be back to discuss Upstream performance and to provide an update on our operations. I will begin by looking at our second-quarter competitive position on earnings margins.

So far this year Upstream margins were approximately $26 per barrel. Although not all our peers have announced second-quarter results, we expect to continue to lead our competitors in this key metric. Based on the peers that have reported through the first half, we are almost $7 per barrel ahead of our nearest competitor. We have now held this top position for 12 consecutive quarters, reinforcing the quality of our investment decisions, the strength of our portfolio, and the consistency of our performance.

Next, let's look at returns. Our investments continue to deliver superior financial performance. For the second quarter, our return on capital employed was 25%. This, too, is expected to rank at the top of our peer group.

Now I will turn to 2012 production. Please turn to slide 14.

Our first-half production averaged 2.63 million barrels a day at an average year-to-date Brent price of $114 per barrel. Based on the results to date, we are lagging the full-year production guidance we gave you in January of 2.68 million barrels per day.

There are four key drivers that will impact our full-year production results. First, the Frade field has been shut in since mid-March. We are conducting an extensive technical evaluation of the area. Once all the technical evaluations are complete, partner support is in place, and we obtain regulatory approvals production is expected to restart and ramp up over time. Timing of the restart remains somewhat uncertain.

Second, we have our first major turnaround at Tengiz SGI/SGP. This is scheduled to start early in August and last for six weeks. The turnaround involves more than 6,000 workers.

It includes normal inspections and repairs of equipment to maintain mechanical reliability and integrity. We will also take the opportunity to make improvements that are expected to slightly increase production capacity over the next few years.

Next, we had commissioning delays at Angola LNG. We originally planned to start up in the second quarter. Commissioning activities are underway and we have completed LNG birthing trials and LNG tankers are available for third-quarter cargoes. We are currently expecting the first cargo in September.

Also influencing our production this year, and I mean in a positive way, are several MCPs that started up early relative to our plan. We have been pleased with their performance.

Currently, we are performing at 98% of our initial guidance. And based on the items we just discussed, enough uncertainties remain so that I expect we will end the year slightly under our target. More importantly, our long-term guidance remains intact. Looking to 2017 we continue to expect production to grow to 3.3 million barrels per day at a Brent price of $79 per barrel.

Now let's turn to slide 15. We have an active year of exploration and we plan to invest nearly $3 billion. The Gulf of Mexico is a key focus area for us where we continue to build our portfolio of prospects.

During the recent lease sale we were apparent high bidder on 15 deepwater blocks and 15 shelf blocks. We are currently drilling in the Coronado well in the deepwater and the Lineham Creek well, an ultradeep Wilcox gas play on the Gulf of Mexico shelf.

In another key focus area, Australia, we recently announced the Pontus-1 Carnarvon Basin discovery, the fourth successful discovery out of the last 15 wells. We have several more exploratory wells to be drilled in Australia this year.

We are also actively pursuing new test areas; one is South America West Africa Cretaceous play. We have an active drilling program in Liberia where we are on our second exploration well, and we recently acquired additional acreage in Surinam.

We made a new entry into Kurdistan region of Iraq. This acreage is in the appraisal and exploration phases, which is consistent with our strategy of seeking early opportunities.

We are also progressing our unconventional portfolio. We have drilling activities in the U.S., both in the Permian Basin and the Marcellus, the Canadian Duvernay, Poland, Argentina, and China. In the Ukraine we were awarded a tender that gives us the right to negotiate a production sharing contract for 1.6 million acres. This acreage is on trend with our Poland and Romania acreage.

Next, we will talk about our progress on major capital projects. Please turn to slide 16.

We continue to see good performance from our first-quarter startups -- Usan, Tahiti 2, and Caesar/Tonga. In the second quarter we achieved startup of Agbami 2. We have brought online one new producer and one water injection well. Our plan includes 10 wells in total, six of which are producers.

We reached a final investment decision to expand our Bibiyana natural gas field in Bangladesh where we have a 98% interest. This new project will include expansion of the gas plant to process increased gas volumes from the Bibiyana field, additional development wells, and an enhanced condensate recovery unit.

The project is expected to boost Chevron's total natural gas production capacity in Bangladesh by more than 300 million cubic feet per day to 1.4 billion cubic feet per day. Our startup is expected in 2014.

We entered front engineering and design for the Rosebank project in the UK. This is our first operated development in the West of Shetlands Basin. This field holds significant potential with estimated total potential recoverable oil equivalent resources of 240 million barrels.

Turning to slide 17 I would like to give you an update on our Australia LNG projects. Let's start with Wheatstone.

We made a final investment decision on Wheatstone last September. We have achieved our key milestones for the year. We have completed the Pioneer Camp with 100 beds and continue work on phase one of the fly camp which will add an additional 500 beds. We currently have about 300 workers on-site.

Just this month we have cut first steel on the platform top sides in the DSME fabrication yard in South Korea. We now have long-term contracts in place for over 80% of our equity LNG volumes.

The remaining activities for 2012 focus on detail design and preparing for plant siteworks to commence in the fourth quarter of this year. To date approximately $15 billion in contracts have been awarded, including more than $7 billion in local Australian contracts. The contracts are a mix of lump sum, reimbursable time and material, and unit rate.

During the quarter we signed a nonbinding heads of agreement with Tohoku for LNG offtake. We also executed an equity sales and purchase agreement with TEPCO bringing Chevron's interest in the offshore platform and facilities downstream of the platform to 64% and our interest in the upstream permits to 80%. We do not intend to farm down any further.

With this sale Chevron's net capital investment is expected to be about $20 billion. We are in the process of obtaining final government approvals of the sale.

Now let's turn to Gorgon. Please turn to slide 18.

Gorgon achieved FID in September 2009 and is now over 45% complete. We are making good progress on our 2012 milestones. In June, the first four pipe rack modules arrived on Barrow Island. In July, construction began on the domestic pipeline.

Next month the first plant equipment module is expected to arrive and later in the year we expect to start installation of the train one compressors.

I would like to update you also on a few areas, additional areas of progress. Through design optimizations we have upgraded the nameplate capacity of the individual trains to 5.2 million tons per annum for a total of 15.6 million tons. This is a 4% increase in capacity.

Fabrication and delivery of modules are on track. We have completed two of the three main berths at the material offloading facility, allowing efficient, simultaneous offloading of modules and other construction materials.

Two LNG tanks are under construction and we have completed all 14 ring sections of the first tank. The roof is now structurally complete and is ready to be floated into its final position. This strong progress on the tanks has taken them off the critical path, which is unusual for an LNG project.

We have drilled eight of the 18 development wells, seven in Gorgon and one in Jansz, and we are pleased with the subsurface results we are seeing. Progress on the upstream facilities and subsea pipelines are on plan.

We posted several photos of our progress at Gorgon on the webpage, Chevron.com. You will see links on the home page and investor page called Gorgon progress photos. I encourage you to check in occasionally as we will periodically update Gorgon project pictures.

Moving to slide 19, we have received many questions about Gorgon costs. We want to be responsive as we can and provide the insights we can with the information we have to date.

As you are aware, the project was sanctioned in 2009 at $37 billion, and at the current exchange rate at the time of 0.86 U.S. dollars to the Australian dollar. The stacked bar chart shows the budgeted cost at FID and how they were broken down -- 30% upstream and 70% downstream.

We have now awarded more than $28 billion in contracts with more than half to local contractors. The contracts include a mix of lump sum, unit rate, and reimbursable time and material. The contract mix will change over time as contracts are completed and/or converted.

Procurement and fabrication, along with the upstream component, are mostly non-Australian dollar-based. These are the top two segments on the stacked bar.

The other components shown on the bar chart are primarily Australian dollar-based. Overall, about half of the total costs are in Australian dollars. Procurement and fabrication and the upstream components are on plan in terms of both cost and schedule.

Regarding logistics, the 5% component, we have three primary supply bases. Activities at the Dampier and Perth supply bases are meeting or exceeding plan. However, the Australian Marine complex at Henderson, which handles trans-shipment of larger cargo, has not been as productive.

To mitigate, we are streamlining our logistics processes and have added additional resources. We have a strong focus on ensuring critical materials arrive in sequence and on time to support construction activities.

Looking at the construction and labor segment we have experienced some delays due to weather. We are still in the early stages of our own island activity and will need several months on Barrow Island to assess labor productivity. Remember that by design the project is modularized to limit on-island activities.

We have also seen Australian labor costs trending higher. This could impact both construction and management services. Because there are a number of variables in play, we currently have a detailed cost review underway.

We are evaluating our performance to date and incorporating new information to update our expectations for the remainder of the project. Over the next few months our assessments will help us gauge movements in costs which we expect to provide towards the end of the year.

I would like to emphasize that our view of the Gorgon project has only been enhanced since FID. I remain very confident in the economics and the value created by this project.

While we are seeing cost pressures in large part of associated with a 20% strengthening of the Australian dollar, it is important to note that oil prices, which determined the project's revenue stream, are about 60% higher than at the time of project sanction. Further, the development well results to date are encouraging, which has greatly reduced the reservoir uncertainty.

We have increased the capacity of the foundation project by 4% and we continue having success with our exploration program, providing us with confidence that we will have additional gas volumes to support further expansions at Gorgon.

With that I would like to turn it over to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you, George. Turning now to slide 20, George just provided an update of recent progress on upstream and exploration activity, so I won't comment further on the left-hand side of the chart.

In the downstream CPChem front end engineering and design on their Gulf Coast petrochemical project. Initial contracts for design of the derivative unit and the ethane cracker have been awarded. We continued our downstream portfolio rationalization efforts, completing the sale of our fuels marketing and aviation business in the Caribbean, along with the power operations of our GS Caltex affiliate in South Korea.

And earlier this week our 50% affiliate, Caltex Australia Ltd., announced plans to restructure its supply chain which will include the conversion of the Kurnell refinery in Sydney to an import terminal. Caltex will continue to operate the Lytton refinery in Brisbane.

In support of this restructuring plan, we have entered into a long-term agreement with Caltex to supply transportation fuels at market-based prices. Given the timing of this announcement, the financial impact of this decision will be recorded in the third quarter. We don't expect the impact to be material to our results.

Turning to slide 21, I would like to close with a few important points. First, 2012 is all about execution for us. We know that and we are executing well. We continue to progress on our major capital projects, both upstream and downstream.

Second, our Australian projects remain squarely on track. George gave you more insight on the progress we are making at Gorgon and Wheatstone. I encourage you to view the Gorgon photos on our website.

We did not talk specifically this morning about our two major deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico that are under construction, Jack/St. Malo and Big Foot, but both of these projects remain on schedule and on budget. And it is these four projects that formed the cornerstone of our production growth mid-decade and beyond.

Third, we delivered a strong financial performance in the second quarter. Earnings and cash generation for the quarter were amongst our strongest ever, and if you look at the first six months of 2012 as a whole, where foreign exchange and downstream timing affects each largely net out you will note the quality of our earnings.

Both Upstream and Downstream segments are delivering leading earnings per barrel and ROCE compared to the peers who have reported so far this earnings season. At the six-month mark Chevron's Upstream is number one on both of these measures and Chevron's Downstream is number one on both of these measures.

An investment in Chevron offers many advantages -- a very compelling growth story beginning mid-decade; hugely competitive cash and earnings margins, margins we believe will be supported in the future by the quality of investments we are making today; and a sustained growth pattern on dividends which are yielding 3.3%. We believe we are well positioned for strong cash generation in the years to come and with that cash generation our capacity to increase dividends and maintain peer-leading total shareholder returns is enhanced.

Now that concludes our prepared remarks. We will welcome your questions. We do have a full queue this morning so please limit yourself to two questions. We will ensure that everyone gets to ask a question, even if we need to run over a few minutes.

Kevin, please open the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Douglas Terreson, ISI Group.

DOUGLAS TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, everybody. I have somewhat of a strategic question. Specifically one that regards the portfolio management where you guys have had extensive activity during the past decade in the refining and marketing business, and your returns have clearly increased.

But in E&P, while I realize that your returns are already about the highest in the peer group as Pat and George pointed out, it seems like that might be an area of opportunity for the Company over the next couple of years. So I just wanted to see if we could get an update on your thinking or strategy in this area, and whether or not you even consider the opportunity to be meaningful for Chevron given your return level?

PAT YARRINGTON: Doug, are you asking us about expectations for E&P asset restructuring and portfolio divestments?

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Along those lines. I mean there is always areas of underperformance or of declining strategic importance. It seems like you have rationalized a lot more in the downstream than the upstream and it is an opportunity for you over the next couple of years until the big wave of growth is present.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Doug, let me take that. First off, I would take you to our earnings per barrel and where they stand relative to everyone else and what that means for our portfolio.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Right.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: The average of our portfolio has got a significant shift, if you will, to the right versus what is out there. We always are upgrading our portfolio on a continued basis looking at the tail end of the portfolio, looking at those pieces that are not performing that well. An example, of course, is Alaska. We sold over 20,000 barrels a day in Alaska that went off our books in December of last year so that was an opportunity that we took, but we also look at is there anything, when we do that, that we can do with that money that gives us better assets.

And I would tell you one other thing we look very carefully at. We try to make sure that anything we sell doesn't have future opportunities related to different stratigraphic levels on that acreage and very importantly that it doesn't have a technology opportunity to unlock more barrels.

We find if you sell out of a place then you lose that opportunity. It is really tough coming back and buying the same acreage back because you exited too soon. I would tell you we are cautious, but we do cut off that poor part of our portfolio and we usually get good prices for it.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: You are clearly in a high quality position. Thanks a lot.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning and thanks very much for all the details on Gorgon. We are going to be watching that website closely. Just you spoke about talking about releasing costs at the end of the year and we can do some math given the details you have given, but you have also spoken about weather impacts and logistics learnings. Maybe if you could sort of assess for us the risk of startup delay at Gorgon as you see it today.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: There is always risk with every project. Every big project like this is a constant mitigation of things in the project, materials, equipment, contracts that could impact the critical path. And I think we do really a good job of trying to mitigate those issues and keeping any problem off of the critical path. We still believe we are going to make the 2014 start-up. We look at it very carefully every month all the way through the chain. I mean me and John look -- we spend a good amount of time every month on these projects with our team.

So we have got great focus on it. We have got good people, very good people in Australia on our project teams focused on delivering and they are very good at dealing with the mitigations to try to move us and hold us to that schedule. At this point, we still think we are on the late 2014 schedule.

ED WESTLAKE: And just a follow-on in terms of Wheatstone. So say you get to the end of 2012 and you can sort of make an update on costs for Gorgon, would we presume given the amount of effort that you have to put in that you might be able to be able to narrow down costs and start-up timing for Wheatstone end of 2013 and then you will have substantially derisked the CapEx and start-up for investors?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: First, where we are on Wheatstone is much earlier in the cycle. Remember, Wheatstone is two years behind. So in 2013, we are not going to be as far along. We will be telling you every quarter and every update where we stand on percent complete and how we are doing. We are going to provide similar kind of information on Wheatstone progress and milestones as we are on the case for Gorgon. We will be more knowledgeable at that point in time, but we won't have the same knowledge level since Gorgon is once again two years out in front.

I will tell you one other item specifically on Wheatstone. Wheatstone, when we authorized that project for the final investment decision, we had used a different exchange rate. We used parity between the U.S. dollar and the Australian dollar at authorization. So we don't see at this point in time the Australian dollar or the foreign exchange impact hitting us on Wheatstone. Once again, we had to make the same commitment on Wheatstone we have on Gorgon. We are going to give you very detailed updates at every opportunity.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks very much, George.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good morning, everybody. George, two questions if I may.

The first one is you have [tapped] again your $79 oil price assumption when you talk about your production target in 2017. I am just curious, if oil prices had to be substantially higher, let's say $100 or something like that, and you could pick a number, I realize that the strategy that you laid it that it doesn't necessarily impact the PSC production entitlement issue. But what I am particularly curious about is what it means in terms of production cliffs as you work through cost recovery because clearly oil prices already have been substantially higher.

So I guess my question is, because you have accelerated or realized a lot of revenue much earlier than you would have done at $79, can you give us a roadmap as to whether there are any major production cliffs on your major PSCs? And I have got a quick follow-up please.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think we have been consistently saying we, one, would be telling you if we saw cliffs. We have not seen any of those. In the near term we don't see any of those. We have in our estimate that we give once every quarter of price impacts; we tell you what it is and any movements in our PSCs are included in that.

Most of the cliffs that I think we have seen in the past we are passed and we will give warnings if we see future ones. I hope that answers your question.

DOUG LEGGATE: If I may, George, what I am really getting at is that if you are assuming $79 for the next six years and it turns out to be $100, it is the future cliffs I am really talking about with that $20 difference. Is there any meaningful changes if it was $100 versus, let's say, your $79 assumption?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: No, we don't see any meaningful ones at this point in time. And if we do in the future see any, we will give you warning or information on that.

DOUG LEGGATE: My second one is really, hopefully, fairly quick. Unit margins obviously continue to be very strong. We monitor, I guess you kind of call that a capture rate. We monitor your weighted revenues and your unit earnings, and it looked like that actually dropped a fair bit this quarter relative to the recent trend.

Is there anything unusual that you can point to? Have you seen the same thing or any commentary you could offer there? And I will leave it at that, thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Our correlations -- it still looks pretty good and consistent with the past history for us. There are always going to be some ups and downs when you look at quarters. One quarter may have a well write-off or it may have G&G effects in it that may move it around a little bit, but the early stuff that I have looked at I don't see anything.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right. I will leave it there. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Arjun Murti, Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. George, thank you as well for the detailed budget breakdown for Gorgon. My question related to that is can you talk about what type of contingency was reflected in that original budget?

Did you have a 15% to 20% contingency for potential cost overruns? Obviously the FX movement is pretty straightforward, but wondering if there is some wiggle room, either within contingency or some of the other buckets? Thank you.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Yes, we did have contingency, but we do not ever disclose what that contingency is or was. We will be able to give you a lot more information about where we think this project is going I think towards the end of the year, after we finished our reviews of cost and schedule.

ARJUN MURTI: That is great. Maybe the related follow-up is if you have awarded $28 billion of contracts, presumably that is primarily on the facilities and what you call here procurement of fabrication.

Can we think about that portion, therefore, basically as being derisked and then we are kind of just down to the labor productivity and the FX and weather you mentioned here? Can we think about the facilities and procurement as being derisked now?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: In my statement I tried to cover particularly a portion of that and particularly looked at even the full Upstream portion and the equipment and the fabrication area. We have good confidence in that. We think those -- we know a lot about those costs. We feel extremely good about our Upstream costs, the wealth on the well side, the drilling side. And, matter of fact, all of the Upstream costs look to be very much in line with our expectations.

What we don't know is we don't know labor productivity. We are getting some indications now, because we have got the two tanks going up quite nicely, but then we have got foundation work and a lot of underground. So we got an awful lot of work before we even get to mechanical piping and instrumentation and electrical tie-ins, so that piece we just don't know. We will have a better feel for it as we get to the end of the year, but we just don't have enough run time to know that.

A lot of our costs are -- as we have mentioned, 50% of our costs are in Australian dollars and a significant portion of that, once again, is related to on-island work. Now remember we tried to minimize that as much as we could by bringing in modules. That is why we have got big pipe rack modules coming in and big process modules coming in with a lot of work to minimize that on-island work.

ARJUN MURTI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Thank you. George, I wanted to ask a couple of questions about activity in the U.S., maybe start with deepwater Gulf of Mexico. You did mention that Coronado is drilling and that Jack/St. Malo are essentially on schedule.

Do you feel like you are essentially now fully back to work there? Can you maybe talk about the production levels in the Gulf of Mexico and whether you are maybe seeing an inflection point and would hope to grow from the levels that you are at right now?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Okay, Jason. We have five rigs, deepwater rigs, running in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. This is the most rigs we have ever run in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. This is more than before the Macondo incident.

Four of our five rigs at this point in time are supporting major capital projects. The Discoverer Clear Leader is on a Jack producing well. The Discoverer Deep Seas is on a Tahiti development well, a Tahiti 2 development well. The Deep Seas is, like I said, I just mentioned, let me go back in actually.

We have got Clear Leader on Jack. We have got Deep Seas on Tahiti. We have got the Inspiration, which is another Discoverer, is another Transocean rig, is completing the St. Malo production well. Then we have a rig on the Discoverer India that is on the Big Foot. So four development projects, four of our rigs.

We have one rig, the Pacific Santa Ana, drilling on the Coronado exploration well, and this is the second time we have been at Coronado. We had some difficulty with the first well there. So we are at Coronado on exploration.

Jason, actually we have more activity we would like to do on the exploration side. We are limiting ourselves to five rigs. It does take an awful lot of technical people to really push all these permits through the system, so I think we are close to what we can do on that.

With regards to production, down the road we are going to see production growth because we have got so many of these large projects coming on. Remember 2014 is our target startup for Jack/St. Malo and also for Big Foot, and the work we are doing right now at Tahiti 2 is to get access to more resources and reserves there to hold production and limit decline rates there.

So my expectation is growth. Just a reminder, Big Foot is a 60,000 to 70,000 barrel a day type opportunity where we hold 60%. Jack/St. Malo is 120,000 to 150,000 barrel facility, and we hold 50% of Jack and 51% of St. Malo.

So all these projects are very significant. Like Pat said, these are very significant projects. They are 2014 and, once again, they look to be on schedule and on cost.

JASON GAMMEL: Appreciate all that, George. I realize it was a multiparter, but maybe if I could just sneak in one more. You mentioned the Lineham Creek well. Can you talk about the potential you see in the Lower Wilcox ultradeep from a resource standpoint and how you were dealing with the technical challenges there?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think at this point in time it is a belief for us, like you normally have in exploration. We have existing leases and have acquired in recent lease sales additional leases where we believe that trend on the shelf could be productive.

I am going to hold on how big it could be until we have some results. We are encouraged by what we have seen in the industry, some of the industry wells for that trend. But once again we have got to drill the wells to see.

We will speak more of it -- I would rather speak more of it after I have some results.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, sounds good. Thank you, George.

OPERATOR: Robert Kessler, Tudor Pickering Holt.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT: Thanks again, George, for the detail. Couple questions on the numbers for Gorgon. How much have you spent to date on the project?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We don't share that.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay. Can I ask for some color, then, around -- you mentioned the tanks and progress on the tanks taking the team off path I think you said. Did you mean they were going faster or slower, or what was unusual about that in your sense?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Most LNG projects the tank readiness for production is one of the critical path items and controls schedule. We have seen that on several projects before that we have been involved with.

The tank work to date has gone well. It has taken all the tank construction off the critical path schedule for the project, so it is a big positive. Projects are always about eliminating problems with the critical path item, and we are very pleased where we are on the tanks.

ROBERT KESSLER: That makes sense. Can I ask, on the 45% complete, if you don't think of that in terms of cost, or is that a cost completion or is that a time completion? How do you think about that particular percentage disclosure?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: It is an activity level completion which we value certain activities. So I would put it more in the sense of really a schedule, but it really reflects the amount of effort and work that has to be done activity by activity. And it is weighted that way.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay. Then the last component for me is (multiple speakers). All right, thank you very much.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thanks. We really just need to get through the rest of the folks waiting for questions. If there is time, we will come back. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning. Two questions; one, George, have you guys hedged your FX exposure in Gorgon and also Wheatstone at the time of sanction how much? If you can share.

Then second question (multiple speakers)

GEORGE KIRKLAND: If it is okay, I will just answer that. The answer is, no, we did not hedge.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Any plan to change it in the future or that this will continue to be the Company policy?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I'm going to let Pat answer that one.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. We really look at this as -- particularly when you are dealing with a resource country like Australia, when the movement in the Australian dollar is really driven by what is happening in the resource sector, we look at the tie, the correlation between that and what happens to oil prices typically and have found a very strong correlation.

So we have made the decision to not hedge. We really have a hedge in the overall portfolio.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, that is fair. The second question; George, you guys are working on a lot of different projects and have a full plate. So from an organizational capability limit standpoint in terms of your human resources, your supply chain availability can you really increase your current pace or this is as fast as you can run?

And if you don't really have any more slack, and I know that periodically people are asking whether you are going to acquire something. Does it make sense that when you don't have excess or idles, spare organizational capability for you to acquire anything outside what you already have?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Wow, Paul, that is a multipart. Let me see if I can take a quick stab at that.

First, when you look at the major capital projects we have around the world and the organization, the people it requires to do one of those, we could not add another large project in the execution stage at this point. Now we are always preparing ourselves for the next set of projects, so we have to stage out people in earlier phases to move the next set of opportunities through the pipeline. So we try to do that.

But we could not just plunk down another big project in the execution stage. Now we have to plan for people coming off of these big projects, and that is happening too, so we try to manage that I think in a very holistic sense.

Otherwise on our organization could we do more smaller projects or a little more drilling? Yes, we have some capability to do that. It is not a huge impact on our capital budgets. It would be relatively small monies compared to what we are presently doing.

We don't want to get overextended on that either, so we try to make good choices on that part but very importantly we try to time, once again, next set of projects, get the preparatory work for them ready by the time some of these other projects are rolling off. And I guess maybe one final point, the reason for all that is we want to have good execution and, of course, on the front end we want to make very good decisions on doing the right projects.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: George, can I ask a couple of questions about Tengiz? I noticed the future growth FEED hasn't started yet. Are there some issues there with the government and do you still believe there is going to be volumes from that in your 2017 numbers?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Good question, Iain. Let me give you a little bit of background where we are at TCO. TCO has received partial funding for partners for future growth FEED. That allows us to move the FEED forward and we have commenced engineering on that -- on the FEED engineering for future growth.

Down the road we have, of course, got to finish that and then another big hurdle for future growth is also funding for partners. In particular, funding for our Kazak partner, KMG. So that is yet to come.

When I look at the timing for the expansion of TCO it is in the 2017 period; that is where it is planned. It is not a full year's worth of production, but we are very focused on trying to move that project to meet that schedule.

I am convinced we are either going to have it in 2017 or it is going to be in 2018. I have got it in my plan that way. We look at it every quarter to try to make sure that we have it in the schedule at the right time. And I'm also always looking on my 2017 3.3 million about other opportunities that I have in queue that I could offset any barrels that would slip out of 2017. So we have a great focus on that.

I will bring you back; we are going to move that project at the right speed to execute it well to get everything in place to have an excellent project. And for a reminder for everyone that is on the phone this project is another big project. It is 250,000 to 300,000 barrel a day expansion.

This project is made possible by the CPC expansion, Caspian pipeline expansion, which is moving forward well. We see the first part of additional barrel capacity coming on the CPC actually in 2013, which is good news for us.

Hopefully, that answered your question.

IAIN REID: Thanks, George. Yes, that was great. Second bit is the turnaround you are taking over the next several weeks, how many barrels is that going to impact? Is it the whole plant or just a portion of it?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: It is the SGI/SGPs which in round numbers is approaching 300,000 barrels a day, so it is about half of our production at Tengiz. This is the first real big, full turnaround for the plant and the compression equipment in total. Like I had mentioned, 6,000 workers; lot of people there.

We are also trying to do a little bit of additional work that we think will be improving future capacity, but the real focus at this point is changing out catalysts and increasing reliability and efficiency of the plant.

IAIN REID: And that is all built into your full-year production forecast?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: That is correct.

IAIN REID: Okay. Thanks, George.

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: George, you mentioned that the development wells at Gorgon were going -- you were pleased with them. Does this mean that we could see some resource uplift or greater recoverable reserve potential for Gorgon?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: That is possible. Let me make sure I can characterize that.

What we have seen to date is we look at every well as we are moving forward and we have a distribution of outcomes between, if you will, a probabilistic distribution. And we are seeing outcomes that are greater than our mid-value.

These are all static results. These are based on logs. Once we really wouldn't move very much off of that until we got performance, so we got the dynamic results when we actually start up. Now we will take some looks at this on net pay counts and looking at actually reservoir quality, but at this point we feel very good. We feel we did a good job estimating and it has come in just a little better than our midpoint.

JOHN HERRLIN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: First one for Pat. You referenced, of course, the very large cash balance. What would it take for you to consider upsizing the quarterly share buyback?

PAT YARRINGTON: Pavel, I think I would just point you to the fact that we had, from a Brent standpoint, a $28 decline in realizations over the course of the second quarter and just point to the volatility there. And say, as I have said in the past, that we keep the cash balance where it is right now while we are in the midst of a heavy construction period, particularly on these LNG projects.

Our priority is to be able to fund those projects through the thick and thin of commodity cycles and to be able to weather any sort of downside excursion, which we have just seen. So fundamentally I think it would take a hugely different and more robust commodity price environment and a sustained environment for us to think at this point in time of moving it beyond the $1.25 billion per quarter.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, appreciate it.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We are returning a lot of cash.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Quick one for George as well. Lots of conflicting comments from your peer companies in relation to shale gas in Europe. What are your latest thoughts on the commercialization prospects and maybe any sense of timing on when we might see some volumes out of there?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think we have been pretty consistent on what we thought on timing for shale gas coming out or gas from shale coming out of Central Europe or elsewhere on the European continent.

We have always looked at this as an exploration play, so it is very early days. You have to drill a lot of exploratory wells. You got to understand the resource; you got to understand the performance. We are once again in the very early start of that.

My expectations on a success basis that you are really talking next decade before you get significant volumes. Europe is in a much different situation than I think actually almost all the rest of the world on the shale opportunities than the United States. The knowledge level in the U.S. about a shale is high compared to any place else in the world because there is so many wells been drilled in the United States in every region. So your knowledge level going in is high; you are able to more quickly assess the opportunity here.

And then, very importantly, remember the infrastructure, the North American infrastructure to move the gas is in place. Most cases short tie-ins; you got all these big interstate pipelines. It is a much different situation and you don't have that in Europe.

So there is a lot of things must happen from the point of discovery, assessment, and then moving gas to market. My expectation hasn't changed. It is really predominately a next decade and maybe early in the next decade, but it is the next decade.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Appreciate the color.

PAT YARRINGTON: I think we have one more caller in the queue.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning, everyone. Figured I would just try a couple on Iraq. As far as the acreage add there, what was your perspective on the long-term potential there? What is your long-term outlook that you may see that Reliance didn't particularly see there that makes the entry there attractive?

And then, secondly, are there any sort of near-term plans for exploration or any other sort of element, or is it a situation where you just got to sort of wait out the political situation there until you get some more clarity?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Let me start off, we have been engaged in Iraq and trying to find opportunities in Iraq for quite a period. We want to participate in their expansion.

We believe what we have in front of us fits with what we would like to do. It is early exploration. Our preference always is to explore, find, appraise, and develop an opportunity. This fits with that. We are there to try to do once again that exploratory work to prove it.

We have got wells to drill. We will be drilling a couple wells in the near term; that was part of the commitment that was made for those blocks. We will be meeting that commitment.

So we are encouraged from what we see of the geology, but once again it is exploration. I don't know what is going to happen until I drill the wells. We feel good about the ability to actually get in there and do the work. We do see the terms; the economic terms there would be attractive. It would fit in the portfolio with geologic success, so we feel good about it as an exploration play.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. And do you feel like it is enough of a position for now or are you continuing to look and potentially add acreage in the future?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Once again, we always are looking for an opportunity to expand, particularly where we have a belief that we have a good technical prospect. So I would just leave it at that broad point.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. Thank you for that.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, I think that wraps things up for this morning. In closing let me say that we appreciate everyone's participation in the call today and your interest in Chevron. I especially want to thank each of the analysts on behalf of the participants for their questions during the session.

Kevin, I will turn it back to you. Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude Chevron's second-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120815e87r0007c
  


 HD
 Q1  2012  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,226 words
   PD
27 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen only mode. After the speakers remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

   TD
PAT YARRINGTON, VP, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Good morning, and thank you, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today is Jeanette Ourada, General Manager, Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website. Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. It was a strong quarter financially, among one of the best we have ever had. The company's first-quarter earnings were $6.5 billion or $3.27 per diluted share. Comparing the first-quarter 2012 to the same quarter a year earlier, our earnings were up 4%. Upstream benefited from higher crude prices while downstream improved on gains from asset sales. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 21%. Our debt ratio at the end of March was just under 7%. in the first quarter, we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares. In the second quarter, we expect to repurchase this same amount. Turning to slide 4, on Wednesday, Chevron's Board of Directors approved a $0.90 per share common stock quarterly dividend. This is an 11.1% increase in the quarterly rate.

This is our 25th consecutive year of higher dividend payments. Also, 2012 is an important milestone for us as it represents a remarkable 100 years of uninterrupted dividend payments to our shareholders. Turning now to slide 5, cash generated from operations was $8.4 billion during the first quarter. At quarter end, our cash balances totaled nearly $20 billion. Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jeanette?

JEANETTE OURADA, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide 6, I will compare results of the first-quarter 2012 with the fourth-quarter 2011. As a reminder our earnings release compares first-quarter 2012 with the same quarter a year ago. First-quarter earnings were $6.5 billion, over $1.3 billion higher than the fourth quarter. Upstream earnings were up $434 million driven by higher crude oil realizations and lower operating expenses, partly offset by lower volumes. Downstream results improved by $865 million between quarters, resulting from lower operating expenses, better margins, and gains on asset sales. The variance in the other bar reflects lower corporate charges. On slide 7, our upstream earnings for the first quarter were $76 million lower than the fourth quarter's results. Realizations lowered earnings by $20 million. A 31% drop in natural gas realizations reduced earnings by about $70 million. This was partially offset by a 3% increase in liquids realizations which improved earnings by $50 million.

About two thirds of our U.S. crude sales are in the Gulf of Mexico and California. Where Heavy Louisiana Sweet, Mars, and Midway Sunset crude markers experienced only modest increases in the quarter, the remaining third of our U.S. crude sales are in the mid-continent where West Texas crude markers increased more dramatically. Lower sales volumes decreased earnings by $15 million between periods. We had one fewer day in the first quarter and lower production resulting from the sale of Alaskan assets, partly offset by higher production in the Gulf of Mexico. Lower operating expenses improved earnings by $125 million between periods, primarily due to reduced maintenance activities and employee costs. The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including the absence of gains on several small asset sales and higher depreciation expenses.

Turning to slide 8, international upstream earnings were up $510 million relative to the fourth quarter. Higher realizations benefited earnings by $555 million. Average liquids realizations increased 9% in line with the increase in average Brent spot prices. Natural gas realizations rose 8% between quarters contributing about $100 million to the positive earnings variance. Lower liftings across multiple countries decreased earnings by $195 million. Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $250 million driven primarily by a decrease in employee expenses. Moving to the next bar, an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects lowered earnings by $205 million. The first quarter had a loss of $208 million compared to a loss of $3 million in the fourth quarter. These foreign exchange effects are primarily balance sheet translation effects for which there are no direct impacts on cash. The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including a net favorable tax effect, partly offset by higher exploration expense including dry holes in China.

Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Between quarters, production decreased 10,000 barrels per day. Higher prices, reduced volumes under production sharing, and variable royalty contracts decreasing production about 7,000 barrels per day. Average Brent spot prices increased about $9 between quarters. Base business, combined with external constraints, decreased production 17,000 barrels per day. The decrease was largely due to the sale of our Alaska Cook Inlet natural gas properties, a planned turnaround in Angola, and adverse weather conditions in Australia and Kazakhstan. The Alaska sale reduced production by 17,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. Offsetting these negative variances were the absence of planned turnarounds in Trinidad and at Tahiti in the Gulf of Mexico.

Contributions from major capital projects increased first-quarter production by 14,000 barrels per day, primarily driven by the ramp up of Platong II in Thailand and improved reliability at Perdido, partly offset by well shut-ins at Frade in Brazil. In total, Frade reduced quarterly production by about 10,000 barrels per day. As we called out in the interim update, the incremental impact to the quarter as a result of shutting in the field mid-March was about 5,000 barrels per day. Also reducing production in the quarter was the drilling ban and shut in of one producing well required by Brazilian regulators in late 2011. Since the full field shut in, the ongoing impact to net production is estimated to be about 33,000 barrels per day.

We are progressing with a comprehensive technical study to better understand the geological features of the field. We will resume production in the Frade field only when we are completely satisfied we can restart production safely and when we have obtained the full support of our partners and the Brazilian regulators. Excluding impacts from Brazil, the remainder of our portfolio remains on pace to meet the production guidance we gave in January. We will give you an update on the second-quarter call. Turning to slide 10, we've had a number of questions recently about the PSCs is in our portfolio. We wanted to take a few minutes today to explain exactly how we define PSC related terms and how changes in price impact our net production. PSCs currently account for about 25% of our net production. In addition, we have contracts with variable royalties that make up about another 12%. In PSC and variable royalty contracts, production can vary as a result of changes in commodity price, level of investment, and operating costs.

Some contracts also have triggers that reduce our net entitlement when certain rate of return or production thresholds are reached. Each quarter, we give you a price effect variance and a sensitivity to Brent comparing to the prior period. When we say price effect, we are only including the impact on production due to changes in commodity prices. We do not include in this price effect variance other items that may impact net production such as changes in investment or operating costs. If a non-price driver were material, we would call it out separately, for instance, as higher or lower cost recovery. We would also call out the impact of triggers if they were material. Under a PSC or variable royalty contract, the barrels we are entitled to typically decline as prices increase. As illustrated on the chart, this is because fewer barrels are required to recover costs at higher prices. Moreover, as costs are recovered, the split of profit oil typically declines for the IOC participants. We measure this price sensitivity relative to Brent and the relationship is not linear.

Each year during our planning cycle, we create price sensitivity curves and evaluate the potential impact of price across the portfolio. The curve changes slightly year-to-year, but the relationships shown have been fairly consistent over the last several years. We are currently in the $110 to $130 per barrel range and our sensitivity is around 700 barrels per dollar change in Brent. During the planning process, we also review potential triggers. Based on our last review, using average 2011 price levels, we do not foresee any material triggers in the next few years. While rising prices do slightly reduce our production volumes, the positive impact on our earnings is much more significant. For our portfolio at current price levels, there is a 40 to 1 relationship between the impact of higher earnings across the portfolio compared to the reduction in earnings due to price effects.

Let me give you an example, and to keep it simple, let's start with a Brent price of $110. A $10 increase in Brent results in about a $3 per barrel increase in earnings margin. We produce roughly 1 billion barrels per year so that generates about $3 billion in additional annual earnings. The same $10 increase in Brent reduces our production by 7,000 barrels per day because the sensitivity in this range is 700 barrels per dollar change in Brent. The 7,000 barrels per day, valued at our current earnings margin, is worth about $70 million. So, at the portfolio level, we gained $3 billion in annual earnings due to higher prices and lose $70 million due to price effects. Or, thinking about it as a ratio, we gained $40 of earnings to every dollar we lose to price effects. Governments benefit even more. Higher taxes on our increased revenue, higher revenue from their share of production, and additional volumes from the impact we just discussed. All of this is built into our peer leading earnings margin, which for this quarter is $26.79 per barrel. Based on available competitor results, we maintained our number one ranking, continuing to outdistance our nearest competitor by over $7 per barrel. Next let's move to downstream. Turning to slide 11, US downstream earnings increased $663 million in the first quarter. Margins improved earnings by almost $300 million, driven by better refining margins in both the Gulf Coast and West Coast. Refinery maintenance in both regions, plus continued product export demand on the Gulf Coast, drove stronger crack spreads. Lower maintenance activity in the Chevron system, across multiple refineries, was the primary driver for higher produced volumes which increased earnings by $100 million. Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $200 million, resulting from lower employee costs and the lower maintenance activity I just mentioned.

Chemical earnings increased by $90 million due to higher ethylene margins and stronger sales volumes. The other bar consists of several unrelated items including lower trading results.

On slide 12, international downstream earnings were $202 million higher this quarter. Refining and marketing margins fell, reducing earnings by $55 million. This resulted from planned turnaround activities causing changes to crude slates and marketing margins being squeezed as prices rose. Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $130 million, resulting from reduced employee, maintenance, and environmental cost. Gains from asset sales in Spain and Canada improved earnings by $195 million. The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items. Timing effects represented a $225 million negative variance due to unfavorable inventory impacts during a period of rising prices. This was offset by a favorable foreign currency effect, net positive tax items, and higher chemicals and shipping results.

First-quarter's foreign-exchange loss was about $15 million compared to the fourth-quarter loss of about $85 million. Slide 13 covers all other. First-quarter net charges were $504 million compared to a net $553 million charge in the fourth quarter, a decrease of $49 million between periods. A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $4 million benefit to earnings. Corporate charges were $45 million lower than in the fourth quarter. You will note we exceeded the upper end of the guidance range we provided in January. If you look back over several years, you will see this is a typical pattern for first-quarter net charges have often been 30% to 35% of the full-year cost. Thus, we believe our quarterly guidance range at $300 million to $400 million for net charges in all other segments is still appropriate going forward. Now I'd like to turn it back over to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thank you, Jeanette. Turning now to slide 14, last month at our security analyst meeting in New York, we presented our financial results and gave you a competitive perspective based on information then available for our peers. We now have complete information to fully assess our performance on a relative basis and I want to share the updated slides with you. Our overall ROCE was stellar in 2011 and was also very strong on a segmented basis. In the upstream, our ROCE was 29% and we moved into a number one position relative to our peers. This is a tremendous achievement. In the downstream, we also delivered a strong performance with an ROCE of 14%. Here, we continue to narrow the gap with the top ROCE peer performer.

For the upstream, we have updated peer results for both realizations and costs as depicted now on slide 15. Our realizations have exceeded those of our peers for the second consecutive year and are now more than $5 higher than our nearest competitors. Our upstream costs increased last year, largely driven by higher oil prices and the resulting impacts from royalties, taxes, and fuel cost. Our cost structure is very competitive. Even with the oiliest portfolio, where the cost of producing oil are higher than the cost of producing natural gas, we improved our relative ranking and are now at number two in our peer group. Slide 16 shows the updated cash margin comparison. With a leading position in realizations and a competitive cost structure, we've delivered an unmatched cash margin. Our 2011 Chevron cash margins were nearly $39 per barrel and our number one position remains intact, outperforming our nearest competitor by 40% or over $10 per barrel. This performance is the result of the strength of our portfolio and our focus on selecting and executing well on the right projects.

Turning now to slide 17, I would like to share a few highlights of Chevron's strategic progress during the quarter. In the upstream, both the Usan project offshore Nigeria and the Caesar Tonga field in the Gulf of Mexico achieved first production. Both deepwater projects are expected to ramp up to peak production within a year. We recently announced the signing of a Heads of Agreement with Chuba Electric to deliver 1 million tons per annum of LNG from our Wheatstone project. With this agreement, Chevron now has over 70% of our equity LNG from Wheatstone covered under long-term off-take agreements. In the downstream, we sanctioned a multi-year expansion of our Singapore additives plant. The first phase of the expansion is targeted to start up in 2014. We also continued our downstream portfolio rationalization efforts, completing asset sales in Spain in Canada. And finally, we signed an agreement for the sale of our Perth Amboy Terminal which we expect to complete later this year.

Turning now to slide 18. Looking ahead, we are keenly focused on executing our major capital projects. We have line of sight on many of the significant milestones planned for this year. We are off to a good start, and we intend to keep you updated on our progress throughout the year. In summary, we started the year with strong earnings and healthy cash flows. We are focused on safe and reliable base business operations and progressing our major capital projects. We continue to be disciplined in our investments and in managing our cost structure, and as we just demonstrated with our dividend announcement, we are committed to sharing our success with our shareholders. That now concludes our prepared remarks, and we welcome your questions. Sean, I would ask that you open the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning and thanks for the color on the PSC impact and disclosure. That is helpful.

PAT YARRINGTON: You are welcome.

JEANETTE OURADA: You are welcome.

EVAN CALIO: My first question is, since we have Pat on the call. My first question is on the large cash position that you oversee net cash is growing again in the quarter and first, on the dividend, with the 11% raise versus a 6% CAGR that drives a hard dividend yield than a more publicized raise by one of your peers. Is this a one-time increase or a design to draw down some of your excess cash position overtime? Can you provide some color on why and how you made the relatively higher raise in this quarter? And then secondly, with a larger portfolio of capital projects and our view of a higher capital budget in '13, should we expect you to run a relatively higher cash position through 2014 when the free cash flow literally jumps and the project queues begin to come on stream?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, Evan, let me take a shot at that. First, with respect to our dividend, the 11% rate we felt was fully in line with the cash generation capability of the firm. Currently and also as we look out, we have strong confidence in our cash flows coming forward. We also -- if you look at our history really since oil prices began to appreciate back in 2004, we've had a CAGR on dividends that has been just about at the 11%. I think of it as being fairly typical with our previous patterns. Last year, you will recall, that we had two dividend increases that combined give us a 12.5% quarterly rate increase. So we feel we've been very competitive on the dividend. I don't what to get into a position of having to step out in front of our Board of Directors on this so I can't provide any future guidance as to what the remainder part of the year might look like. But suffice it to say that dividends are a very important priority in terms of our uses of cash. It is, in fact, our number one priority. We'll look carefully at that every quarter.

In terms of the second part of your question about our cash balances, and as we look out in terms of funding these, I think we have been pretty specific in saying that 2012 is really -- it's a high C&E year. We've got significant LNG commitments. We've got significant deepwater commitments. And as we get further along into having some of these projects move into past the 50% mark on their construction phase, I think we will feel better about relinquishing some of our cash cushion. We really think of that cash cushion as being a risk mitigator to be able to handle commodity price swings and margin swings. These are really important projects that we keep completely on track from a funding standpoint and so having a little bit of cash cushion as we are in this heavy investment phase seems to make a great deal of sense to us.

EVAN CALIO: Great, I appreciate that. Second, if I may, I know you recently signed the Chuba, the Japanese power company, and a long-term off-take for Wheatstone. I mean maybe -- have you seen any changes here in the slope or the oil price linkage versus other off-take sign for Gorgon and Wheatstone and any comments just on maybe general demand levels? I know you are going to market an additional 10% to 20% of that gas. Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Actually, we have been very heartened by discussions that we have had most recently with potential buyers of LNG, whether it be Wheatstone or Gorgon. I would say in a post Fukushima environment, we haven't had -- seen any degradation of terms on these contract in discussions that we have had. Our objective for both of the projects really is to get into an 85%-ish of the off-take under secure long-term agreements and we are really well on path for both of those major projects.

EVAN CALIO: That's great, I will leave it there. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, ISI.

DOUGLAS TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, everybody.

PAT YARRINGTON: Morning, Doug.

JEANETTE OURADA: Morning, Doug.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: First, to second Evan's PSC comments, those were very helpful, Jeanette. And my question is -- has to do with slide 15, I think, indicates that operating costs have increased by around 10% to 15% annually during the past five years. My question is that with your global perspective, I wanted to see how you envision this trend evolving in coming years or what you're seeing over the intermediate term when using the Chevron oil price deck.

PAT YARRINGTON: Actually Doug, I think the way we look at this is over time, there's been a fairly steady pattern between an increase in the overall cost structure as associated with an increase in the overall revenue structure.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Sure.

PAT YARRINGTON: So, we have not seen any discontinuities in any way, shape, or form to show that. So I think it would be reasonable if you are thinking about how to project out using your own oil price forecast, I think keeping a somewhat common relationship in that profile would make sense.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Okay. Okay. And secondly, I wanted to see if we could get a kind of a summary update or brief update to the degree possible on the situations in Brazil and Ecuador as there's been movement on both. Just any color or next steps you can provide on these two situations, please.

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure. I will start with Ecuador here. I think the most important thing that has happened of late is that the Hague has accepted jurisdiction, for the case, and has basically reiterated their requirement that Ecuador do -- take all means that it can through the judiciary, through the executive branch, through the legislative branch, to prevent enforcement of the judgment anywhere on the globe. That has been a positive step.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Sure.

PAT YARRINGTON: In terms of the local Lago Agrio case, it has been remanded or sent to the equivalent of the Supreme Court in Ecuador, but has not yet been accepted there. I can't give you any more color there. I can't speak to timing.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Sure.

PAT YARRINGTON: And I do encourage everybody to continue to look at our website because we put everything that is happening out there on that website. In terms of Brazil, the criminal case against our employees and the two civil cases against the Company have been sent or remanded to the Rio de Janeiro Court out of the Campos court. And we are still very confident that a transparent and an impartial review of the facts will demonstrate that Chevron and its employees acted very responsibly, acted very appropriately, to the incident. That we didn't violate any laws or regulations. We will continue to defend our employees to the fullest extent. And as Jeanette said, we have a technical review of the Frade field underway to better understand the entire geology there and we won't restart production until we have a complete confidence ourselves in the reliability in the safety and the ability to do so and we are working lock-step with the regulators and with our partners on that.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Great summary, thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Arjun Murti, Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. I was wondering if you had any update in terms of cost inflation trends in some of your major Gulf of Mexico projects. You've obviously got Jack/St. Malo, I think Tubular Bells, Big Foot, Buckskin in various stages of progression. I think Hess, on their call, alluded to potentially some inflation on Tubular Bells and just, you know if you're seeing that across your Gulf project portfolio. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Arjun, actually, you know we're -- I don't have any specific information to point to. I don't --there's nothing that comes to mind that is material at this point.

ARJUN MURTI: So you're feeling good about the estimates you've provided for those projects?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, we are.

ARJUN MURTI: That's great.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, we are. And we're feeling good about the schedules for them.

ARJUN MURTI: Excellent. Can you provide just an activity update on the Marcellus and the Utica? Obviously, gas prices are very low, you do have the carry there. Can you just provide any color on how you're thinking about drilling plans in the Marcellus and any thoughts on how the Utica is progressing for you. If you have had any results you can talk about there. Thank you very much.

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure, Arjun. Okay. I'd say the Marcellus, all of our activities are going according to plan. In fact, we are ramping up, we will continue to ramp up as the year progresses. We are seeing some efficiencies, some cost efficiencies as we had expected. Safety is going well and, as I said, production will ramp up. In terms of the Utica, we are really just doing site preparation and pad preparation at this point and drilling will begin a little bit later in the year. And we will have to report on that in the second and third-quarter calls. But it's really just site preparation at this point in time.

ARJUN MURTI: That's great. Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, Pat and Jeanette. Just a question on the cash statement. Obviously $8.4 billion cash from operations. Were there any sort of negative effects like working capital in that? Can you quantify that?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, Ed. Certainly, I can. Inventory was a big effect in the first quarter here. And actually, as you look at a variance compared to fourth quarter, it's an even bigger variance. So we had a drawdown in inventory in the fourth quarter that released cash of about $0.5 billion we had a build of inventory in the first quarter that consumed cash by about $1.8 billion. So you have over a $2 billion swing there in just inventory alone on cash.

ED WESTLAKE: Right. Okay. Thanks for that clarification. So if I add that back, cash flow probably before working capital would be somewhere over $10 billion?

PAT YARRINGTON: : Yes, it would be close, very good.

ED WESTLAKE: Yes, great math. Just on the CapEx run-rate seems a bit low just at the beginning of the year. Is that just the usual timing?

PAT YARRINGTON: Actually it is. We look at this every year, and we have a typical pattern and first-quarter 2012 looks just like the first quarter of the last seven years in terms of its rate of spending relative to the full-year spending.

ED WESTLAKE: Right. And then just to follow-up on the operational side, any updates in terms of activity rates as you perhaps start to delineate some of the shale that you have in the Permian?

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't know that I've got anything more than what we said just a month ago or so. The overall activity level, our expectation was to have about 200 wells, participation in 200 wells over the course of the year and that is exactly where we sit.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay, great. Thanks very much.

JEANETTE OURADA: Thanks Ed.

OPERATOR: Robert Kessler, Tudor, Pickering and Holt.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT: Thank you. Morning, Pat and Jeanette.

JEANETTE OURADA: Good morning.

ROBERT KESSLER: Can I ask for a little bit more color around the variability in your operating expense? It just strikes me as interesting that basically both key segments in both the US and international swung the same direction, both last quarter as a negative and this quarter as a positive. And you seem to mention in all cases employee costs as a variable there. It seems to imply that there is some sort of common central variance that's allocated as an overhead to the segment. Severance, for example, or something like that. Is that in fact the case and if so, can you speak to any underlying cost trends unique to the segments on OpEx as opposed to a corporate level allocation?

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure. You picked up exactly on some of the messaging that we had there. We've got a compensation system where we have pay at risk for a large part of our employee population. And so the payment is awarded based on performance against targets and also relative competitive performance. So we make an assessment in the fourth quarter of each year as to how well we have done and 2011 was a strong performance year for us. And that's really what you see as the variance between the costs incurred in the fourth quarter and then the absence of those costs really here the first quarter. That's really one of the primary drivers that you see. In terms of the overall cost structure around the globe, there really -- other than this one particular variance that I've talked to, there hasn't been anything of significance that is note worthy or different.

ROBERT KESSLER: Would you characterize your upstream kind of global lease operating expense as relatively steady over the last couple of quarters?

JEANETTE OURADA: Yes, I think it has been fairly steady over the last couple of quarters. If you recall in 2011, we did call out about a $1.3 billion increase in operating expense due to a gas for oil swap agreement. That was replaced with a purchasing agreement in Indonesia. If you're looking at year-over-year, that may be what you're seeing.

ROBERT KESSLER: That's helpful color. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Yes, thank you. I had two actually, if I could please. First, Angola LNG. Would you say you're still on schedule to potentially look to cargo from the project in June and would you expect that you would be sending most of these cargoes into Asia rather than the original plan of moving to the Gulf Coast, and also, how should we think about production from Angola LNG? Are you guys actually able to recognize equity gas here or is this gas that actually belongs to Sonangol?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. So in terms of the cargo, our expectation is that the first cargo would be available and lifted in the middle of this quarter here. Certainly by the end of the second quarter. In terms of ownership of that cargo, we believe the first offtaker will be one of the partners but it's not clear yet, I don't think the decision has been made yet as to who that necessarily will be. And in terms of the gas ownership, it is ours.

JEANETTE OURADA: We will recognize production as LNG is produced.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, that is great. And then I'm just trying to think about second-quarter volumes at this point. The liftings difference that you showed in the variance chart, were you actually under-lifted in 1Q and would expect to make up those volumes in 2Q? And do you have any significant maintenance activity that we should be thinking about for 2Q?

JEANETTE OURADA: Remember when we said the liftings -- really what that is a variance of sales between quarters. If you just want to look at the under over-lift within the quarter, we had a very slight over-lift in the first quarter. It's about 0.5%.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay. Great. Any planned maintenance?

JEANETTE OURADA: We don't forecast for the second quarter but we did have about 50,000 barrels a day, that's a variance between a -- we had a substantial amount in the first quarter, quite substantial at TCO.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, thank you, Pat and Jeanette.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning.

PAT YARRINGTON: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: Two questions, if I could. One, Pat can you talk about that, whether any of your investment program in Argentina, even in your thinking or that the actual spending there may or may not have changed after the recent nationalization announcement of YPF? The second one in Venezuela, you had I think a couple years ago signed a new agreement with PDVSA on the heavy oil upgrading project Carabobo 3? I think that you may actually have paid some upfront fees for that bonus for that. Wanted to see if that is any status update on that one. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, sure. First of all, in Argentina, I would just say that any time you see an expropriation of assets like has occurred, and you're an IOC and you go in under certain contract terms and places all around the globe and you see that happening in a location, it does give you pause. We do believe in contract sanctity and so it makes you certainly sit up and take notice. In terms of our particular activity, there hasn't been any change. In fact, we did just extend our concession extension in the El Trapial consent concession for an additional 10 years now. We have a concession out to 2032. Work continues a pace there but we do certainly take notice of it, that's for sure. In terms of Venezuela, both our Carabobo and our Delta Caribe projects stay under the evaluation phase. We are working hard to identify appropriate kind of commercial development opportunities there.

PAUL CHENG: You don't actually have any actual spending or major spending in those projects yet?

PAT YARRINGTON: We don't have any major spending on those projects at this point.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hello ladies, good morning.

PAT YARRINGTON: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL SANKEY: Hi. Back to the balance sheet. Pat, you've got 6.9% debt ratio presented here which obviously is the gross debt So the net debt is closer to over 8% cash positive.

PAT YARRINGTON: Correct.

PAUL SANKEY: And there's $19 billion of cash on the balance sheet. Firstly, I was wondering about the debt paydown. What was the rationale for that given -- I would've thought it was better to carry more not less in this interest and rate environment.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right and that just was an internal operational event for us. We happened to move from a proprietary issuance of commercial paper to a dealer issuance. We just decided that it wasn't a business we needed to be in. We made the transition at the end of the first quarter here. And while we were doing that transition we just wanted to get the balances down low just to make sure we didn't have any glitches anywhere. That is just strictly an internal Chevron operational thing. I wouldn't read anything into that.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. To maintain a AA rating, which I know you've repeated many times, is a key aim. I guess you could probably carry about $10 billion of net debt without threatening that?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well actually, Paul, the way I look at it is it really depends on what you are using the borrowing for. If you have significant commercial opportunities or M&A opportunities or whatever. The substance of the increase and the debt is really important to evaluate for the rating agencies, how they view your credit worthiness. And they take into account a lot more than just the financial parameters, as you now know. They look at a lot of our upstream and downstream, operating performance parameters in assessing that. That rating. I think we have a tremendous amount of borrowing capacity under the right circumstances. And still have the ability to maintain the AA.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes I guess what I'm driving at is the scale the safety cushion you've got here does seem to be kind of extreme with $19 billion of cash. I would have thought that you could be very, very safe and not have to carry quite so much unless it is going to be the mother of all CapEx overruns.

PAT YARRINGTON: No, we are not anticipating, using your terminology here, I don't want to use that phrase again, but we are not anticipating overruns on our capital program. It really is a circumstance, we're keeping some cushion now while we are in this heavy investment period and acknowledging that you've got the opportunity, it may be a very low opportunity, or very low probability, for excursions south on crude prices or real deterioration in margins. But we want to make sure that we've got enough to live through this heavy investment phase.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, okay. I was just thinking that kind of more buyback because the buyback's basically unchanged right?

PAT YARRINGTON: That's right. And we will look at the buybacks every quarter. We do it every quarter. This quarter, we were focused on the dividend here which I think was a tremendously strong message about our confidence in future cash flows. Obviously as we go, as every quarter goes by and you've got reasonably high oil prices, we continue to move the projects through to a higher stage of completion, then obviously our requirements around cash lessen. And we will evaluate the share purchase reprogram as we do every quarter with our Board of Directors.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes and I think you stated as I recall at the analyst meeting that you felt that it was going to be kind of in 2013 that you would be -- if you lack more confidence in that final CapEx numbers in the phase?

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't recall giving a 2013 date. We just know that we've got these significant projects, Gorgon, Wheatstone, Jack/St. Malo, Big Foot, you know, deepwater, Nigeria, et cetera, where we've got a large profile here for 2012 and certainly LNG continuing here into 2013.

PAUL SANKEY: Got you. And my second question would be to some volumes for this year. Forgive me if I missed this, but is there guidance regarding -- previously you had a target for the year. Is there a recent number for that, for 2012?

PAT YARRINGTON: At this point, we're sticking with the guidance that we gave at the very beginning of the year. We did acknowledge here as much information as we have about Frade. George will be on the call here in the second quarter and we'll update you at that point in time. I will just say as we look forward, the things that are important to us here, the portfolio is performing on plan, outside of Frade, so we feel good about the number that we gave, again, outside of Frade. Frade, we don't have enough information to be able to say how that will play out here in the second quarter, third quarter, et cetera. The ramp up of A-LNG is an important parameter for us. The ramp up of Usan is an important parameter for us and the TCO SGI/SGP turnaround is an important parameter and all of those will be important factors in 2012 production.

PAUL SANKEY: Great, thank you, helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Thanks very much. Just two quick upstream ones. First, U.S. gas production was down about 10% from the fourth quarter. Was that a price related shut-in?

PAT YARRINGTON: U.S. gas would be the Alaska Cook Inlet sale. That property alone -- that property sale alone was worth about 17,000 barrels a day on a BOE basis.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay so no shut-ins in your existing assets there.

PAT YARRINGTON: No, I mean I will say that we are -- we already have our portfolio and have been working our portfolio to as minimal dry gas as we possibly can. The only exception that we've got going there would be the Marcellus and Marcellus has got the $1.3 billion carry. I guess it's actually now about a $1.2 billion carry because we've used some of it now since March. But we are definitely focused on liquids rich plays.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: And then on Liberia, can you just confirm that the first prospect is in fact spudding this week and maybe provide a timeline for results from that?

PAT YARRINGTON: I can tell you that its spudding is imminent. I hate to go out farther on a limb than that and I really don't have any more information as to how long it will be and what the evaluation period will be, et cetera.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: I appreciate it.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Thanks, Pavel.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Faisal Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, good morning. Can you give us a little bit of an update on your exploration wells you drilled in the first quarter. I believe you were still looking for results from Bear's Hump and then you were drilling a well in the Duvernay and the Pearl Mouth Basin in China and you also did give us a little bit of an update on what you plan to drill in the second quarter.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Bear's Hump, is -- the drilling results are basically are still being evaluated. In the Duvernay, we are on our third well and I guess I would say encourage from that standpoint. And what was the third area?

JEANETTE OURADA: China.

PAT YARRINGTON: Oh, China. So China we did have our third dry hole. This was the quarter recognized two of those dry holes here and so we've had our third dry hole. One each in the three blocks. But I will say we have significant acreage there, and some of the results were encouraging and those results will be used then to help us do the next site selection for the follow-on drilling program.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay. And then your future line-up here for the second quarter? I believe you are going to spud Coronado or have you are already spudded that well?

PAT YARRINGTON: Coronado will be later in the year. I don't have a definitive time on Coronado. And most of our drilling rig activity right now in the Gulf of Mexico are focused on development wells. We've got four rigs drilling on development wells for the Jack/St. Malo and Big Foot properties. And we have the Santa Ana coming which actually is in the Gulf of Mexico now and will be soon available for drilling operations.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay. Can you give us an update on North American onshore rig activity? How many rigs are you running in North America and how many of those are devoted to current liquids rich or oil-rich plays?

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't have specific rig activity in North America. I can just tell you that in the Marcellus, we continue to up execute the evaluation and development plan that we laid out. You'll see a gradual ramp-up in Marcellus production over the course of the year. And Wolf Camp, we were pretty specific in saying we expected to participate in 200 wells there. Those are liquids rich plays. And I guess I would say going back to the natural gas versus crude or liquids component there, all of the gas that we've got here really is liquids focused. Everything that we are producing is cash breakeven or better on the natural gas side.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, great, thanks for the time.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Hi, good morning.

PAT YARRINGTON: Good morning, Iain.

IAIN REID: Can I come back to your production, your PFC sensitivity guidance? This is very useful actually. On the trigger part of it, I think you said that there is no triggers coming from rate of return or production thresholds over the next few years. Is it possible to say what oil price you assess that at?

JEANETTE OURADA: Yes. We used 2011 average prices. Around $110 per barrel for that sensitivity.

IAIN REID: Okay. And that includes fields which have just started out. As such. As Usan, I presume.

JEANETTE OURADA: Yes. That included the whole portfolio. We create a curve for each PSC and then combine them together and test each one and then test at the portfolio level.

IAIN REID: Okay. And cost oil, cost recovery. Is it possible to say is there any kind of major fields coming out of the major part of cost oil which is the CapEx recovery over the other similar period?

JEANETTE OURADA: Over that same period, not a lot I would say. If you would have asked me two years ago, we probably would have talked about Agbami. But I think we've talked about -- we've pushed Agbami 2 back a little bit because the first set of wells were performing exceptionally well. And pushing Agbami 2 investment back a bit has really muted any type of decline you see in cost oil.

IAIN REID: Okay. Nothing in Angola?

JEANETTE OURADA: Nothing material in Angola, no.

IAIN REID: Okay, interesting. And on a different topic, could you tell us what the status is of the Nigerian gas blowout?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, actually. We continue at this point to drill the relief well and to set ourselves up to permanently plug and abandon it. We haven't had any gas detected from the well since the fire stopped burning in the very early part of March. The relief well is fairly close to the intersection point, and our expectation at this point would be that if we are successful there than we would have a permanently abandoned well by the end of May.

IAIN REID: Okay. And what sort of production has been shut in due to this? A few thousand barrels a day?

PAT YARRINGTON: Very, very, very modest. Just 2,000 barrels a day.

IAIN REID: There's been no knock on effect from regulators -- Brazilian style type of reaction?

PAT YARRINGTON: No, we have been working very closely with the Nigerian government, the regulators and the local community to move this along constructively.

IAIN REID: Okay, well all right, thanks for your help.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Kate Minyard, JPMorgan.

KATE MINYARD, ANALYST, JPMORGAN SECURITIES INC.: Hi, good morning. Thanks very much for taking my question. Just a quick point of clarification, on slide 9 you walk through the variability in production versus the prior quarter. If I caught you correctly, I believe you said the Alaska sale was about a 17,000-barrel equivalent per day impact? But then you also had mentioned an Angola turnaround. It looks like the Alaska sale might have accounted for the entire block of net production constraints or the impact on the base business? Or what is it a timing issue with the Alaska sale?

JEANETTE OURADA: Thanks Kate. There's certainly a lot embedded in that 17,000 so we also called out the negative additional impacts. We had a planned turnaround in Angola and then we also had some cyclones in Australia and some pretty severe weather in Kazakhstan through the quarter so those were both negative but offsetting those we had turnarounds in the fourth quarter in both Trinidad and then in the Gulf of Mexico we were installing the water injection module on Tahiti. Both of those were positive impacts for the quarter that kind of offset each other.

KATE MINYARD: Okay, got it, that's clear. And then just one other question on the, just looking at the tax rate. Was there anything about the geographic distribution of the over-lift that resulted in a variability in the tax rate? Looks like you're tax rate was coming in just a little bit lower than what we would have previously modeled. Is there anything about the mix shift based on the over-lift that might have driven that or is this kind of the right run rate kind of all else equal?

PAT YARRINGTON: Actually, our tax rate came in for the quarter at about a 46% rate. It's a little higher than we have seen here. What we really had is just jurisdictional mix effects between -- within international operations as well as within the downstream. In the downstream too we also had the asset sales and those came through with essentially a very low effective tax rates. And so by default, that in fact makes our overall worldwide income more internationally upstream oriented here from a tax rate standpoint. And so that tends to boost the number. If you look forward, I would say our best guidance would be in the mid 40% range on a go-forward basis for us.

KATE MINYARD: Okay. Great, thanks very much. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning. I just had a couple questions surrounding your comments on domestic drilling and the preference for liquids over dry gas. Was that in reference just sort of drilling activity or were you referring as well to acreage additions and if so was there any acreage additions in the first quarter that would be material compared to what the acreage breakout you gave us during the analyst day that would change any of those allocations significantly?

PAT YARRINGTON: We haven't had any material acreage additions here in the first quarter so what we provided back in March is the latest update that we have there. I was really talk about drilling activity and our focus on production and trying to ensure that we are value focused in our production efforts and our drilling efforts.

ALLEN GOOD: As far as acreage additions and I don't even want to go as far as saying maybe potential acquisitions but as far as dry gas, is there anymore interest here given the level of prices and potential attractiveness of assets or is that just something that's completely off the table at this point?

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't think we ever take anything off the table. I think I just would emphasize our value approach here, and if there is a combination of opportunity where we can see value down the line, then that is something that we would take a look at. But it has to be able to compete in our portfolio. We've got a very strong portfolio and so the hurdle is already very high for any sort of additions to it.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. And then if you could just give an update on the downstream assets that were currently being marketed. If there's any sort of progress there or there's any additions to the list that you provided about a month ago as far as what you're looking at to dispose of.

PAT YARRINGTON: No additions to the list. The real changes that have happened we called out with Spain and the enviro-fuels in Canada and then also the Perth Amboy terminal but nothing additional other than what Mike presented at the security analyst meeting.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. Thank you very much.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you. I think that kind of runs through the queue here, so I would like to close off here. Let me just say that I appreciate everybody's participation on the call and particularly your interest in Chevron. I want to thank all of the analysts for putting their questions forward because it helps everybody's understanding of the Company. Thank you very much, everyone. Good bye.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's first-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | c26 : Product Safety | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120511e84r006mx
  


 HD
 Q4  2011  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,156 words
   PD
27 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. John Watson. Please go ahead.

   TD
JOHN WATSON, CEO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Sean, and welcome to everyone to Chevron's fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, you all know, our Chief Financial Officer and Jeanette Ourada, our General Manager of Investor Relations. And we will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, as usual, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

Turn to slide 3, I want to begin with safety, where we always do. In March of last year I talked with you at some length about Chevron's Safety Journey, over 100 years of focus and improvements in our systems and processes. I said we work to improve every day. As a result of our efforts, every key measure of safety and environmental performance has improved dramatically over the last decade.

In fact, we just had another very good statistical year in safety. We had world-class low industrial injury rates; we had fewer fires, serious auto, and other incidents. Some very good performance during the year. But we're nowhere near where we want to be. In particular, we had drilling-related incidents in recent months in Brazil and Nigeria, sadly with two contract employee fatalities in Nigeria.

We have full investigations underway and are doing everything we can to learn from these incidents. There's a great deal of information available on our website and I'll be happy to answer any questions after we complete our prepared remarks.

Our financial performance in 2011 was outstanding. We achieved record earnings and cash flow, underscoring the strength of our portfolio and strategic direction. Underlying these record financial results is our outstanding Upstream earnings per barrel. We invest to generate value for our shareholders and we like high-value barrels. While our peers have not all reported their fourth quarter results, we fully expect to maintain our wide lead on this critical metric.

I'd like to summarize a few additional accomplishments. In the Upstream business, we sanctioned three major projects. We broke ground in December on Wheatstone, our second legacy LNG project in Australia. We also moved forward on Clair Ridge in the UK and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico. In the Gulf of Thailand, our Platong II Project start up and ramped up very quickly. We completed our acquisition of Atlas Energy and supplemented it with some additional acreage acquisitions in the Marcellus. We continued our string of exploration successes offshore Australia with four natural gas discoveries. And we announced the Moccasin oil discovery in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. And we achieved 171% reserve replacement driven by the initial booking of about 740 million barrels of oil equivalent from our Wheatstone LNG Project.

Looking at our downstream business, we made great progress in the second year of a three-year plan to improve returns. The completion of the Pembroke Refinery sale marked a significant milestone in our portfolio rationalization process. We also made a final investment decision and began construction on a premium base oil plant at our Pascagoula Mississippi refinery which, when completed, will position Chevron as the world's leading supplier of premium base oils.

We're very proud of our performance this past year.

With that, I'll turn it over to Pat, who will take you through our financial results. Pat?

PAT YARRINGTON, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, John. Slide 4 provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's fourth quarter earnings were $5.1 billion, or $2.58 per diluted share. For the year, earnings were a record $27 billion, or $13.44 per diluted share, over 40% higher than in 2010.

Return on capital employed for the year was nearly 22% and our debt ratio at year end was 7.7%.

Of particular note, 2011 marked our 24th consecutive annual dividend increase. We had two dividend increases during the year which resulted in a combined 12.5% rise in the quarterly rate in 2011. This is significant, indicating not only our superior performance and our financial strength but also our confidence in our future performance. It is also consistent with our priority of rewarding shareholders with sustained and competitive dividend growth.

In the fourth quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares, bringing the full-year share repurchase total to $4.25 billion. In the first quarter of 2012, we expect to repurchase $1.25 billion of our shares.

Finally, Chevron's 2011 total shareholder return was 20%. We hold the number one TSR position versus our peer group for the one- , five- , and 10-year period. We are exceptionally proud of this achievement as it demonstrates our history of making wise portfolio investment decisions and executing well.

Turning to slide 5, cash generated from operations was $8.3 billion during the quarter. For the full year, cash from operations exceeded $40 billion, a record for the Company and over 28% higher than last year. This reflects our impressive operating performance and the cash-generating strengths of our portfolio.

At year end, our cash balances totaled $20 billion, up $3 billion from the end of 2010. This put us in a net cash position of about $10 billion.

Our strong cash flow and solid balance sheet continued to be competitive advantages.

Turning to slide 6, I'll compare results of the fourth quarter 2011 with the third quarter 2011. As a reminder, our earnings press release compares fourth quarter 2011 with the same quarter a year ago.

Fourth quarter earnings were $5.1 billion, $2.7 billion lower than third quarter earnings. Upstream earnings were down $464 million, driven by an unfavorable swing in foreign exchange effects and higher operating expenses, partly offset by higher volumes. Downstream results decreased $2 billion between quarters, resulting from weaker margins, the absence of asset sale gains, lower volumes, and an unfavorable swing in foreign exchange effects. The variance in the other bar reflects higher corporate charges.

On slide 7 our U.S. Upstream earnings for the fourth quarter were $97 million higher than the third quarter's results. Higher realizations benefited earnings by $60 million. A 4% increase in crude oil realizations improved earnings by about $100 million while a 13% drop in natural gas realizations reduced earnings by about $40 million.

Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $65 million between periods primarily due to higher employee costs and increased maintenance activity.

The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including gains on several small asset sales.

Turning to slide 8, international Upstream earnings were down $561 million, relative to the third quarter. A net positive liftings variance across multiple countries increased earnings by $180 million. Higher operating expenses reduced earnings by $165 million, driven primarily by an increase in employee and maintenance expenses.

Tax items across multiple jurisdictions decreased earnings by $100 million between quarters. This net number includes the absence of the one-time catch-up charge booked in the third quarter due to a retroactive tax increase in the UK.

An unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects lowered earnings by about $305 million. The U.S. dollar weekend against many currencies most notably the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar. The fourth quarter had a foreign exchange loss of around $3 million compared to a gain of about $300 million in the third quarter. These foreign exchange effects have minimal impact on cash; as we have said before, they are primarily balance sheet translation effects.

The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including lower realizations and higher exploration expense associated with seismic acquisition costs across the portfolio as well as some well write-offs in China and Angola.

Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil-equivalent production. Between quarters, production increased 42,000 barrels a day. Lower prices improved volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts during the fourth quarter, increasing production about 4,000 barrels a day. Base business, combined with external constraints, increased production a net 6,000 barrels a day. Tengiz returned to normal operations following a turnaround activity in the third quarter but the impact of this full restoration was partly offset by some unplanned downtime in December.

Production in Thailand was also fully restored following a June third-party pipeline incident only to be partly offset by lower demand as a result of flooding and seasonality in the fourth quarter. Offsetting these net positive impacts were normal field declines and an extended turnaround in Trinidad.

On the third quarter earnings call we told you we expected fourth quarter production to increase approximately 100,000 to 150,000 barrels per day. Obviously, our forecast did not include the negative impacts of the events I just mentioned.

Moving to the next bar, incremental production from major capital projects increased fourth quarter production by 32,000 barrels a day, primarily driven by the start up of Platong II in Thailand and improved reliability at Perdido.

Slide 10 compares full-year 2011 net oil equivalent production to that of 2010. Production decreased 90,000 barrels a day. Price impacts from production sharing and variable royalty contracts decreased production by 32,000 barrels a day. The average Brent price increased about $32 in 2011. For the full year each dollar increase in Brent resulted in a 1,000 barrel per day volume reduction.

Base business combined with external constraints lowered production by 103,000 barrels per day. Normal field declines and higher maintenance activity were partly offset by about 17,000 barrels a day of oil equivalent from our recently acquired Marcellus asset. Our decline rate for the year was about 4%, right in line with our prior guidance.

Incremental production from our major capital projects contributed 45,000 barrels per day, reflecting the start up of Platong II in Thailand and the ramp up of AOSP in Canada, Frade in Brazil and Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico.

Our original production guidance for 2011 was 2.79 million barrels of oil-equivalent per day. We fell short of that guidance by about 115,000 barrels a day. About a third of that is due to higher prices; about a third is due to lower-than-expected major capital project performance, mostly Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico and Tombua-Landana in Angola; and the remaining third is lower base business performance, about half of which is due to the third-party pipeline rupture and decreased demand in Thailand.

As John mentioned, our focus is on profitable barrels. For the year our global upstream earned over $26 per barrel. This is an increase of over $8 per barrel from our 2010 results. We have led our peer group on this metric for over two years by a wide margin and we expect the trend to continue as our competitors announce their fourth quarter results.

Turning now to slide 11, U.S. downstream earnings decreased $908 million in the fourth quarter. Margins dramatically weakened between quarters, lowering earnings by about $400 million. General industry fuel margins fell, contributing about half the decline shown in the bar. Seasonal declines in base oil and finished lubricant demand also punished fourth quarter margins. Maintenance at our Richmond, California and Pascagoula, Mississippi refineries also impacted margins and was the primary driver for lower produced volumes, which decreased earnings by about $200 million. Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $155 million resulting from increased employee costs and maintenance activity I just mentioned, along with associated higher transportation costs.

Chemical earnings decreased by $80 million due to both lower margins and lower sales volumes. The other bar consists of several unrelated items including the absence of third quarter asset sales, negative LIFO effects, and lower trading results.

On slide 12, international Downstream earnings were $1.1 billion lower this quarter. Refining and marketing margins fell, reducing earnings by $155 million. This reflected weaker Asian demand coupled with regional recovery from shutdowns.

The next bar shows a $570 million negative earnings variance, primarily reflecting the absence of the third quarter gain on the sale of the Pembroke Refinery and related marketing facilities in the UK and Ireland. A swing in foreign currency effects reduced earnings by $230 million; the U.S. dollar weakened against both the Korean won and the Australian dollar during the quarter. Fourth quarter's foreign exchange loss was about $85 million compared to the third quarter gain of about $145 million.

The other bar here reflects a number of unrelated items including lower chemical and trading results and higher operating expenses.

Slide 13 covers all other. Fourth quarter net charges were $553 million compared to a net $358 million charge in the third quarter. This is an increase of $195 million in charges between periods. A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $30 million benefit to earnings. Corporate costs were $225 million higher this quarter.

For the full year this segment had net charges of $1.5 billion, putting us at the upper range of our $250 million to $350 million guidance range. We believe going forward a higher range of $300 million to $400 million is more appropriate.

With that, I'd like to now turn it back over to John for a few thoughts on 2012.

JOHN WATSON: Okay, thanks, Pat.

Turning to slide 14, in early December we announced our capital program for 2012 at $32.7 billion. The 2012 program is in line with our overall 2011 investments once the Atlas acquisition is included. We continue to develop an enviable project queue with almost 90% of the program earmarked for upstream activity.

We are progressing construction on our two world-class Australian LNG projects and deepwater Gulf of Mexico developments. We are planning for increased exploration activity around the world along with additional work to further assess the Marcellus and Utica acreage we acquired this past year. The investments we are making today are on track to deliver significant production growth by mid-decade which is expected to generate substantial cash flow over a long period of time.

Our Downstream investments for 2012 will focus on the construction of a premium base oil plant at our Pascagoula refinery and improving Downstream returns through a number of energy efficiency and feedstock flexibility projects.

Turning to slide 15, this slide shows our net production outlook for 2012. Our full-year outlook for 2012 is 2.68 million barrels of oil-equivalent per day, essentially flat with 2011. The outlook assumes an average Brent price of $111 per barrel, the same average price as 2011, and does not assume multi-curtailments, material security, or market impacts.

Major capital project start ups including Angola LNG and Usan are expected to be largely offset by base business decline and major turnaround activity at Tengiz. 2012 will be the first major plant turnaround for the SGI/SGP facility since start up in 2008. We expect the turnaround to occur in the third quarter and last approximately six weeks. Base business decline is expected to be about 4%.

Looking beyond 2012, I want to remind you of our long-term guidance. At the end of 2009 we said we expected to grow production, adjusted for price impacts about 1% per year through 2014 and then grow 4% to 5% thereafter. We exceeded the 1% rate in 2010. We're a bit below in 2011, but overall on track to meet our goals.

With the strength and scale of our major capital projects and our strong base business performance we continue to expect production to grow to 3.3 million barrels per day by 2017. We are advancing the queue, reaching critical milestones and are well-positioned to deliver consistent growth and performance over the long term.

Looking forward, let me highlight some of the activities that we have planned for 2012 on slide 17. In the Downstream, we will mark the final year of our three-year plan to improve returns. We're well on track to deliver on the commitments we made when we first began our restructuring program. Construction on the Pascagoula base oil plant continues, driving toward a 2013 start up. We're on track for a start up of two major capital projects -- Angola LNG and the Usan deepwater project in Nigeria. We expect increased exploration activity in both our core focus areas and some intriguing test areas around the globe. We expect to enter the front end engineering and design phase of the future growth project at Tengiz, the steam flood pilot expansion in the Partition Zone and our first expansion of Gorgon in Australia.

In 2012 we will have a laser-sharp focus on execution as we continue construction on our Australia LNG and deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects. I look forward to further discussing these plans in more detail at our Security Analyst meeting on March 13 in New York City.

We had a great 2011 and we are looking forward to delivering some strong results in 2012.

Now, that concludes my prepared remarks. We are now set to take some questions, so Sean, if you will please open the lines for those questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: It's been a tough few weeks for news flow, clearly. Could you underline for us the resolution that we now have on firstly, the situation in Brazil? The extent to which there's any more potential news flow from the spill or whether or not that essentially got a line drawn underneath it?

The same for Nigeria. And then finally if you could address the recent legal news flow around Ecuador and where we are in that whole process, I would be grateful. Thank you.

JOHN WATSON: Sure, let me first talk about Brazil. As many of you know, we had a seep there from well drilling activity in November. And I would tell you, this is less a drilling issue as it is a subsurface issue. We were drilling a well in the Frade field. Remember, we've had over 50 well penetrations in this field and know it pretty well. We hit pressure that was higher than we expected, took a kick and our people responded in textbook fashion to control that kick, weighting up the mud, etc.

With -- it took us some time to identify that seeps were as a result of that kick in the first couple of days. We had sent ROVs down the first day and didn't see anything around our wells. Remember, these are subsea wells. And there was nothing around the FPSO. We sent the ROV down again and saw these seeps.

And so we commenced a significant action at that time to control the surface sheen that we were seeing and to control the seeps. And that has been largely a very successful effort.

And now during that time, you saw some very strong reaction by regulators and in the media. I would tell you, we didn't necessarily put our best foot forward in some of the communication that we made at that time. But the event itself was handled in textbook fashion.

Now since that time we've been working very closely to improve the communications with regulators and to get them the necessary information that they need. But like the United States and some other countries, there are many different factions in Brazil and there are a number of political issues around oil development -- from the environmental community, between the state and federal level. And so you have a lot of different views on oil development. And there are many forces at work in Brazil. But we're doing our best to deal with the circumstance.

I can't predict what may come. What I do know is that the facts would suggest that our people responded very well to this event. And all we've asked is to be treated fairly consistent with the facts and be treated as Petrobras or others would be treated in a similar circumstance.

In terms of Nigeria, the Nigeria event is a serious event and I'm very concerned about it. Obviously, we had two fatalities from that incident. I'm pleased that the evacuation that was put in place was fairly orderly and that 152 individuals were able to escape.

As you might imagine, our first priority was dealing with those 152 individuals and searching for the two that proved to be lost. We've been conducting interviews with those individuals to try to better understand what happened. We have said that we had thought there was some type of an equipment failure on surface facilities. What we know is that there were gas returns from the formation through the annulus that were being circulated out through the mud gas separator.

This is not at all unusual. This is a fairly routine type of activity.

But then something went wrong. And we don't know a lot more about it than that. We're doing a root cause analysis. We're trying to piece through the information that we're getting to better understand it.

But our real focus right now is really on putting out the fire that continues to this day. As you probably read in the material we put out, we've mobilized two rigs to drill relief wells. One is more a precaution. We presume the first will be successful, but in the event that it encounters any challenges we've got a second one. We've received considerable help from the industry in making those rigs available, which we're pleased with. And we're doing well planning right now. I would expect we would spud one of those relief wells within the next week or so.

We have seen the size of the flame go down significantly since the initial event, but we're monitoring that as we go.

I'll remind you, this is a gas well that is burning -- you do see a plume around the site. That's silt and mud as it is being -- it's a very shallow site. It is 40 feet of water. And so as the gas comes up, a lot of silt and mud is being disturbed and you see that plume. But we've been sampling that. That's mud. And that will eventually dissipate and settle to the bottom.

So more work under way. Certainly, I'm concerned about these events. They're fairly different events, as I indicated. The one in Brazil I would categorize more as a geologic event than drilling-related. The one in Nigeria is clearly related to drilling activities and surface activities.

We'll continue to do what we always do in these circumstances. We will work very hard to understand. We've got a root cause analysis team that has been flown in from around the world to understand it. We've taken actions, as you might expect, with stand-downs in our drilling organization, reinforcing well control standards.

And that's on top of many of the proprietary things that we do. But certainly I'm very disappointed in those particular events.

Now, when it comes to Ecuador, that has been in the news as well. I won't go through the case in great detail because I think most of you know the history. If you're on the phone and you don't, I encourage you to look at our website because we have quite a bit of information. And I think it's generally acknowledged that this case is a product of fraud. Most of us know that. This is a collaboration between corrupt plaintiff's lawyers in the U.S. and a corrupt judiciary in Ecuador.

Nonetheless, we are moving it through the judicial system. There have been events in really three courts recently -- one in Ecuador, one in New York, and one in the Hague. So I'll quickly tell you what has happened in each one.

On January 3, a panel of three temporary judges overseeing our appeal of the Lago Agrio verdict in Ecuador upheld that original ruling. So on January 20, Chevron filed an appeal seeking a review by Ecuador's National Court of Justice. Basically we're pursuing all available procedural steps in Ecuador, as you would expect. Remember, we have no assets in Ecuador.

So the second area where there's been court activity has been in the Hague. On January 25 the BIT Tribunal, that is the Bilateral Investment Treaty Tribunal in The Hague converted its previous interim measures order to an interim award. And that makes it have more standing in the international community. And basically, the award is targeted at the Republic of Ecuador and says that Ecuador is obligated to prevent enforcement worldwide pending a full review of formal trial and merits of the case. This award is helpful to us in preventing enforcement outside of Ecuador.

I would also point out that in previous rulings that the Tribunal has made, they've had already indicated that Ecuador will be financially responsible for all the damage caused by this fraud if Chevron prevails. So we've had some strong wording out of that court and are encouraged by that. And there's another hearing scheduled.

And then finally, on January 26 in New York, the U.S. Court of Appeals issued an opinion reversing and vacating the Southern District Court's injunction. We had sought to stop enforcement in U.S. courts -- stop the plaintiffs from enforcing any judgment that might be achieved in Ecuador in courts outside the United States. And in a fairly narrow procedural ruling, the courts held that that statute cannot be implied for purposes of such enforcement. But it was a fairly narrow procedural ruling and it doesn't change -- in fact, it made no comments about the merits of the case. And in fact it made no comment about the RICO case and so you can expect that that will continue on its way.

I know this can be confusing. We said at the onset with this case when you have a collusion and a fraud outside of the United States you have to work many avenues to protect yourself. We still have many defenses, both in Ecuador, in The Hague, and elsewhere where we've put together defense teams should enforcement be sought elsewhere.

It's certainly unfortunate that we're at this point but when you have an elaborate fraud that is being perpetrated against you, that's what you have to do. So I hope that wasn't too long an update on those three matters.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you, John. My follow-up would simply be what are the next dates or events that we should look for as the next meaningful news flow items on those three issues as we go into 2012? And I'll leave it there. Thank you, John.

JOHN WATSON: At some point we will hear a final determination in the court in Ecuador. I'll leave that to you to decide what you think will happen there. There could be more out of the BIT Tribunal and then there could be more actions that we could take in New York under the RICO case. So that's where we are.

PAUL SANKEY: And dates for more news flow from Nigeria and --?

JOHN WATSON: Those are hard to predict. I think -- we will notify you, for example, when we spud the relief well. To some degree events will dictate where we put out news, but any significant change in the status of the well or the status of the work we're doing we'll certainly keep you apprised, and for those that haven't seen it, we are putting up pretty regular updates on our website on both Brazil and Nigeria.

Okay, let's take the next question.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: You mentioned, Pat, that $10 billion on the balance sheet continues to provide Chevron with competitive advantages. I guess only if you are going to do something with the cash obviously long-range growth targets unchanged, just some color, perhaps, on is it because portfolio options for additional spend are not yet matured? Is it because you're worried about inflation in terms of the existing projects you have? Or are you thinking perhaps U.S. gas prices being so weak will present a strategic opportunity for you guys?

JOHN WATSON: Well, let me make a few comments, because we have some priorities for our cash. Clearly, we have a strong balance sheet, one of the strongest in the industry. We're heading into a period where we have significant capital expenditures ahead of us. And I've said previously that we want to be sure that we can execute this group of major capital projects uninterrupted. And you can have considerable volatility in the commodity markets.

So even though we may think oil prices will be more than adequate to preserve our cash status so that we can fund these capital projects, we have a more conservative balance sheet than might otherwise be the case to ensure that we can execute these major capital projects. That is, I guess, number one that I would tell you. We want to be able to fund these projects.

We, of course, want to be able to continue to pay the dividend and increase the dividend as the pattern of earnings and cash flow permit going forward.

And then, we have further flexibility to repurchase shares if cash gets above the rate that we think affords us those protections. And we have, as you've seen, we have done that.

We're not saving it for a particular purpose. We are opportunistic when it comes to opportunities to add to the portfolio and we want to be in a position of having sufficient resources to be able to take advantage of an opportunity. You've seen last year we made small acquisitions in the Marcellus and add-on, bolt-on acquisitions. And the balance sheet that we have affords us that sort of flexibility.

We don't have to do any acquisitions, but we are in a position to take advantage of opportunities with the balance sheet that we have. So that's the priorities that we have for the cash debt balance that we have today.

ED WESTLAKE: Maybe a follow-on then. So Gorgon, Wheatstone, and Jack/St. Malo are some of the big projects. Gorgon, I think maybe towards the end of this year you'll be in a more comfortable position in terms of really understanding productivity and the ultimate cost of that project, probably provides a readthrough to Wheatstone. So at that point, would you be more comfortable to say, okay, we've got through the hump of the CapEx and we could maybe return cash to shareholders or do something different?

JOHN WATSON: I think you hit it about right in terms of sort of understanding what cost, if you will. If you look at Wheatstone -- I just had an update last night with the project team for example on both Gorgon and Wheatstone. Once a month I meet with the project manager and line management and had a pretty thorough update on where we are at Gorgon. And we're 36% complete now. It's going very well. Other than a cyclone descending on Barrow Island as we speak. That's one of the things that we deal with. We have hardened facilities there so we'll manage our way through that, but the project is going very well, 36% complete.

And I'll just tell you we're on track for late 2014 start up of Gorgon and feel pretty good about the progress that we have made on that flagship project.

From a cost point of view, and maybe this is what you were getting at, we will -- this will be the first year where we'll have a lot of on-island activity. And so we'll get a good chance to understand labor productivity and the progress that we're making.

That, coupled with impacts of foreign exchange, for example, will dictate whether there's any change to cost one way or another. At this point, the $37 billion is the target for the project and if we have anything more to say, it's going to be probably more later in the year.

So on the subject of will we change our balance sheet structure as the year wears on, I think it's fair to say that as we get closer to start-up of these big projects -- remember, we've got Gorgon, Wheatstone, Jack/St. Malo, Big Foot, Tubular Bells that all start up in that -- Wheatstone is a little later, but the big ones in the 2014 timeframe -- as we get closer to that date, the need for flexibility on the balance sheet diminishes. And then we'll have choices for what we do with that additional cash.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks very much, John. Very clear.

OPERATOR: Arjun Murti, Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: John, you outlined a number of the big projects -- Australia LNG, deepwater, you got some big international projects. The big glaring hole is U.S. shale -- and U.S. liquids shale in particular. You do have the Marcellus, but as some of these opportunities start to expand and mature, they do actually look quite substantial.

I'm curious if you can provide some comments on how you do, thinking about addressing that seeming hole in your portfolio. There are a lot of jobs that come with these projects. There's a lot of opportunity to invest here in America. You are the second largest energy company in the U.S. Between the inherent investment opportunity and some of the other benefits of investing here, how do you see that as a strategic need for Chevron? Thank you.

JOHN WATSON: Look, we're very positive on shale. As you know very well, the shale gas business in this country was really built by the independents because you had to have strong land departments. And so major companies got involved by buying their way in. And so prices began to run up.

And we felt we are always very focused on value. No matter how much we might like rocks, we are always very focused on value. And many have plunged in with big dollars and perhaps those will prove to be money well spent.

For our view, we had some pretty strict criteria and we have made some targeted acquisition in areas where we know we have a low-cost basis of doing business including a substantial carry to cushion us through a difficult period in the gas market.

I guess I'd point out that we have some eight million acres of shale around the world. And in March, you'll hear George give you an update on not just the Marcellus and Utica shales but also some of the things we're working in West Texas and otherwise.

So we feel pretty good about our portfolio. We have opportunities overseas. We're just drilling a well in Poland. We're drilling a well, in fact, our second well in the Duvernay in Canada. So I think we have a little more than might be commonly recognized. But we are not ideologically against these things. And we have some acreage that we've had for a long time that is held by production in the Delaware Basin, etc., that shows some promise as well.

So I think we'll have an opportunity in March to give you a more thorough update of what we have. But we're not ideologically opposed to shale. We just want to enter in a way where we can generate some value.

ARJUN MURTI: John, I realize there's no absolute answer here in the sense that it's always case by case specific, but we've generally presumed some of the joint ventures that some of the international and non-U.S. companies have done are probably inherently less likely for Chevron to pursue. Is that true?

And then the related follow-up is, do you feel a need to add expertise via adding employees of other companies potentially in terms of pursuing U.S. opportunities? Thank you.

JOHN WATSON: I think it's fair to say that if we were going to take on a significant new opportunity in the U.S., organizational capability would be a consideration. When we acquired Atlas, we picked up some very good people with that and that was very helpful to us. Certainly manpower is at a premium.

So I think that is an important part of what we are looking for.

So what was the other part of your question?

ARJUN MURTI: Just on joint ventures. Again, that's been an avenue for some folks. We thought it as less likely for you all.

JOHN WATSON: Well, there's two aspects to the joint venture. One is if you come in and are carrying the partner or the operator, you're paying a disproportionate level of cost. And with the gas market where it is, that's going to be difficult financially for a period of time. We acquired Atlas and that came with a carry, so we like that better.

Second, coming in as a non-operator isn't our preferred approach. If we are going to apply our expertise we would rather have some degree of control. We looked at a lot of these different ventures and you had to come with money and you had to come in and really have the pace and activity and practices dictated by non-operators. And in many cases, those were operators we didn't want to be in that position with.

ARJUN MURTI: Thank you very much, John.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: John, I know you guys have an increase in exploration activity this year. I was wondering if you could provide an update on exploration, in particular Liberia, Bear's Hump, and pacing in the Gulf of Mexico. I think you have four to five rigs working today and/or some of the shale positions that you mentioned, please.

JOHN WATSON: We do have quite a bit of exploration activity this year. As you know, we've been accumulating acreage over the last several years. So where are we drilling wells this year?

We have a key well that will be spudded shortly in Liberia. We've talked about that. We've got a well drilling now in China. That's a very encouraging well. We've got a well drilling now in Poland. We've got a well drilling now in the Duvernay up in Canada. So we have those, certainly those that are underway.

In the Gulf of Mexico we have four rigs currently. I should note, we have had one dry hole in China, so we're on our second well there.

In the Gulf of Mexico we have for rigs currently. Right now they are all working on development activity. But we do have exploration wells ahead.

We were unable to get the Coronado well down so we're looking for a new location and a new opportunity to drill that well. So those are some of the highlights that I would offer in the portfolio this year. We will have some tests in the Utica that we will drill this year. So that's encouraging. And more in the Duvernay.

EVAN CALIO: So it sounds like there will be some key exploration results maybe end of Q1 here?

JOHN WATSON: Yes --

PAT YARRINGTON: As the year progresses.

JOHN WATSON: As the year progresses. I think the Liberia well will be an interesting one for us.

EVAN CALIO: The second question I have, can you tell me the reserve bookings related to Wheatstone? And then with your recent discovery in addition to the five others that could support, I think 11 straight right now -- that could support a third train in Wheatstone. How will that process develop in 2012 as well as any potential Gorgon expansion where I believe you have space for five trains. I'm just thinking you could see within the existing portfolio, even an extended growth beyond 2017.

JOHN WATSON: To be sure. First, the Wheatstone booking was 740 million barrels. So obviously that was a significant contributor to our reserve adds for the year.

In terms of what is likely to come next, we have three trains at Gorgon; two in the Foundation Project at Wheatstone. The most likely next step is a fourth train at Gorgon. And whether we can get to a fifth train on Barrow Island will remain to be seen. We believe we have the plot space.

But subsequent trains at Wheatstone will likely then follow the fourth train at Gorgon. That will be the resources that we have accumulated and any third-party activity. Remember, that's a hub site and so it will also be a function of resources that we can bring to that site, which bring down fixed costs. And we are actively working that aspect, as well.

EVAN CALIO: Are those pre-feed? Is that your assessment?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, those are earlier stage. The one that is most likely for feed is train four at Gorgon.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Thanks very much. First of all, on reserve replacement, John, obviously a big number at Wheatstone but even deducting that out it looks just under 100% replacement from all other sources. Are you able to provide any further breakdown of the geographic reserve adds?

And I think, specifically, I would be looking at deepwater Gulf of Mexico because I believe last year there were some price implications that prevented you from booking some of the reserves associated that you -- with the projects that are moving forward there.

JOHN WATSON: Yes, we did make a booking on Jack/St. Malo this year. And so, in fact, if you look at the typical categories of extensions, etc., all categories of reserve movement were positive other than the impact of price and obviously production during the year. So Big Foot, we also made a booking this year. You'll see more in the Annual Report when we disclose it. But it was fairly broad-based. We did have bookings in the Marcellus as a result of our activity there as well.

So it was fairly broad-based and positive.

I'll just remind you, these things are lumpy. A year ago when our bookings were a little bit low, we said these things are lumpy and a function of largely major capital project timing. But we're also doing a lot of very good work in reservoir management to be sure that we're getting the necessary technical work done to book reserves as fast as we can when we know developments are coming and they are really waiting on technical work or determinations to meet booking standards. So our reservoir management group continues to do good work around the Company.

JASON GAMMEL: That's great. And with the second question, Upstream margins obviously comparing you against any of your peers, they've been fantastic, but if I look at the fourth quarter and compare it to your own good history I am actually looking at capturing about 21% of the Brent price. Whereas you have been capturing pretty consistently between 23% and 24% of the Brent price really referring specifically to the international margin.

Is there anything going on in the quarter that makes it nonrepresentational? Or should we be looking at the potential for cost inflation to start eroding that great margin that you'd established over the course of 2011?

PAT YARRINGTON: Jason, I think I'll take this one if you don't mind. So, realizations generally were relatively flat globally there. We had higher exploration expense. I mentioned the seismic activity and the well write off that we had, so fourth quarter was a little bit higher on exploration expense.

We also had higher operating expenses, I mentioned that. And then there was additional charges, one-time charges, tax-related charges, in the fourth quarter that you would not see recur again. And that was a significant charge there.

JOHN WATSON: I think the general message I would give you is there hasn't been something fundamentally change in our portfolio. We have a strong portfolio. We will continue to perform well, particularly with high oil prices.

And in March, you will see us talk a little bit more about our portfolio and some of the new projects coming in. Because the new projects are very good also. And they are high return per barrel.

So naturally, we've got a range of profitability across the portfolio. But on balance, we think this lead we have is something we are very likely to keep in the kind of oil price environment and particularly, with the sort of North America gas prices that we are seeing.

JASON GAMMEL: Appreciate that. I'll look forward to the further detail in March.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: John and Pat, and Jeanette -- a several-part question if I could. Pat, can you give us a rough idea how the CapEx trend is going to look like 2013 to 2017? I presume that there's a number of projects that you still need to sanction and that you're probably not going to see any relief. So should we assume that it's going to be up say, a couple billion dollars on average a year comparing to this year level?

JOHN WATSON: Paul, if I can comment, the major spend projects we sanctioned and are under way. And we are heading into a period of heavy construction -- Gorgon, Wheatstone, Jack/St. Malo, Big Foot -- all those projects are in their high spend period in the period 2012 to 2014. So that's when you should be looking to see -- those are likely to be high spend years. And we've given you the number for 2012. We haven't given numbers beyond that.

But I would just say that period is likely to be the three-year period.

The next big project that will add a big tranche of cost is likely to be the future growth project at Tengiz. And we are likely to begin progressing that. But that is slated for start up 2017, later -- kind of later time period. And so that peak spend will likely be later in the time period. And same thing goes for the steam flood project in the Partition Zone which will be a significant spend. That's behind these big projects. So I wouldn't look for a major tranche of increase from beyond what we've talked about during this period.

PAUL CHENG: And John, if we're looking at all the noise surrounding your oil spill in Brazil and also the last couple of years a little bit of change in the political wind, how they treat the foreign oil company in the country, all those add together, has that changed your view about the commitment of the -- I shouldn't use the word commitment -- but the appetite of the Company in that country?

JOHN WATSON: Well, let me make a broader comment. I think that host governments, whether it is the United States, China, or Brazil, have very high expectations for companies like ours. They expect the best. We trade on our reputation. Us and frankly, other IOCs, trade on our reputations. And so we get held to a very high standard. And they expect excellence from us. And when they don't see it, they come down hard. And we've seen that take place elsewhere.

So that's a part of what the expectation is. And we need to not put oil in the water. And that's what we work to do every day.

So expectations are high. Transparency is high. And anyone who has an agenda that might not be consistent with our objectives is going to point out any flaws or mistakes that we make. So we should expect that. And we have to deal with it.

We do work very hard to get balance and facts out into these circumstances and assume that rule of law and consistent treatment will prevail. But certainly, expectations are higher today than they might have been two, three years ago.

PAUL CHENG: Final question, final one, can I?

JOHN WATSON: Okay, one more quick one, yes.

PAUL CHENG: Just on the resource base, I understand it's lumpy in terms of moving into the proved and reserved. Do you have a rough estimate you can give us between 2012 to 2015 -- how much is your existing probable resource that you can put into the proved and reserved from the major projects?

JOHN WATSON: I would tell you, over time, we are obviously targeting to replace more than 100% of reserves, but I don't have a particular target for you. George will give you a little bigger breakdown on -- you'll recall, last year he talked about some of our big projects and how much had been booked on those projects. We'll give you some of that same information in March to try to help you with that.

Okay, we'll go to the next one.

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, The Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: On Angola LNG, could you discuss what marketing arrangements you have underway or in place for the gas? And then I have a follow-up.

JOHN WATSON: As you know, the project was originally designed to bring gas to the United States. We've been working with Sonangol and our other partners to put in place a diversion program, which of course makes sense given markets in Europe and Asia. And I expect that over time, we will have the flexibility to move gas to those markets. So that's basically the plan for us.

MARK GILMAN: John, if I could just follow up on that, are there any short-term contracts you have in place to move that gas to Asia?

JOHN WATSON: We're in the process of contracting as we speak. So I don't have for example, a destination for the first cargo to share with you.

MARK GILMAN: My follow-up relates to the 2012 production forecast. I'm wondering, are there any production sharing contract thresholds that have entered into that number? And if you could be a little bit more specific in terms of what the volumetric impact might be of the Tombua-Landana disappointment as well as the major Tengiz turn. Is that a full plant turn for six weeks so it will be completely shut down, or is it something less than that?

JOHN WATSON: It is a full plant turnaround so it's a very significant event. In terms of other PSC effects, the PSC effects can vary by price. So there are different impacts in the $70 range and the $90 range and the $110 range. So they do vary. But I'm not going to get into the specifics of those. Jeanette may have a comment here.

JEANETTE OURADA, IR-GENERAL MGR., CHEVRON CORPORATION: I think you are asking where are we going to hit any PSC triggers in 2012. And there's no major trigger in our forecast that we're expecting.

MARK GILMAN: In the Tombua-Landana issue?

JOHN WATSON: Performance hasn't been up to what we had expected and we're dealing with it to see if we can resolve some of the issues. But the production is a little shy of -- what we said is production was a little bit shy of what we had built in the plan this year.

MARK GILMAN: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Can I ask a couple of questions, again on LNG? You took FID on Wheatstone with I think industry low in terms of the amounts of gas which had been marketed. Are you keeping some of this back for your own marketing operation or do you intend to contract that completely, say, during this year?

And secondly, on Browse, this one seems to be slipping quite a long way down the program in Australia. Is this a project now you've put in the post-2020 start-up frame given the difficulties there?

JOHN WATSON: A couple of comments. First, we've been pretty successful in our gas marketing. We are about 70% under SPA at Gorgon, about 60% in Wheatstone. And we continue to have good conversations with gas customers. Recall, some have been impacted by -- some of the contracting has been impacted by the events around Fukushima. So it's been a very sensitive and difficult time for some of the Japanese customers.

So I expect that, as we move along, we'll get into 85%, 90% range and every indication I have based on my conversations with our gas people is that, particularly with some of the events taking place around the world, there is plenty of demand out there at similar pricing to what we're seeing today.

But we are 60% at Wheatstone and I expect we will move forward successfully. Browse, I am probably best referring you to Woodside, who is the operator there. I think the intent of the partnership is to keep the retention licenses in place.

Remember, there were some conditions that were put on development. There were some actions that were required in the partnership in order to retain the retention licenses. The partners have been working through the economics of the scheme that was put forward by the operator. And so I don't want to prejudge or comment on that. I'll just say that we are committed -- certainly committed to developing the resource. And it has to be done in an economic way.

But I probably need to leave that to Woodside, as they are the operator.

IAIN REID: Could I ask just one very quick follow-up on something you answered earlier in terms of the impact of the Tengiz future growth project on future CapEx. Are you basically saying to us that $30 billion, $33 billion is where Chevron is going to be for the next six, seven years in terms of overall spend?

JOHN WATSON: No, I didn't say that. What I said was 2012, 2013 and 2014 are peak years because of the LNG projects. And if you simply did math and took out those expenditures you would see a big drop-off. But we continually add items into the hopper and the future growth project was one of those. But it doesn't mean spending will necessarily be at this $33 billion level.

Okay and then I'm going to take one last question from our next person. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citi.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I believe last year when you guys put out your original budget for 2011, you talked about a $26 billion budget and you came in at $29 billion for 2011. So if you could talk about what caused that number for 2011 to be higher than your original budget. And if you could also talk about for 2012, what the major variables are that can influence the budget for 2012 as we get into the end of the year?

JOHN WATSON: Sure. I will let Pat take that one.

PAT YARRINGTON: So principally there were two items that I would call your attention to. One, we did a little bit of coring up around the Atlas acquisition property, so a little bit of coring up around the Marcellus. That was not planned at the time we put out the original target there.

And I would also say because of the strong price environment, particularly in the U.S., we've had additional activity in the U.S. And that led to -- those two items really account for that increase of about $3 billion.

In terms of any other outlook changes that we've got relative to the planned C&E target for 2012, there's nothing that comes to mind that we need to update you about. And we feel good about the $32.7 billion figure that we've put out.

FAISEL KHAN: Then on your guidance for corporate expense, you said that was going to be a little bit higher this year versus last year. Is it the major incidences between Nigeria and Brazil that are influencing that corporate expense number?

PAT YARRINGTON: No, actually, if you look back we have had the corporate guidance in that sector be $250 million to $350 million for quite some time, several years, in fact. And all I was really trying to do was acknowledge the fact that we do have corporate departments whose salaries go up a little bit over time. In this particular case, we had some additional pension expense that's related to the funding position of our pension, and I expect a little bit of that to be higher in 2012. So it's really just trying to give you a little bit of better guidance.

FAISEL KHAN: And lastly on the Coronado, you said the well was not able to get down or you did not drill the well at Coronado?

JOHN WATSON: We drilled the well. We weren't able to get down -- couldn't get through the salt.

FAISEL KHAN: Understand. Thank you so much.

JOHN WATSON: Okay. With that, thank you, Sean. In closing, let me say we certainly appreciate everyone's participation in today's call. I especially want to thank each of the analysts on behalf of all the participants for their very good questions during this morning's sessions. Goodbye, thank you and we'll see you in March.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120210e81r0048t
  


 HD
 Q3  2011  Chevron  Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,730 words
   PD
28 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.

   TD
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP & CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's third quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Mike Wirth, Executive Vice President of Downstream and Chemicals; and Jeannette Ourada, General Manager, Investor Relations.

Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2011. We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown on slide two.

Slide three provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's third quarter earnings were $7.8 billion or $3.92 per diluted share. Earnings in the third quarter 2011 were more than twice that of third quarter 2010. Upstream benefited from higher crude oil prices and Downstream benefited from gains on asset sales and improved margins.

Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months exceeded 22%. Our debt ratio at the end of September was 7.5%. This is lower than previous quarters due to the early and economic redemption of a $1.5 billion Chevron Corporation bond.

In the third quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares. In the fourth quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.

Of particular note, we announced Wednesday that Chevron's Board of Directors approved a $0.03 per share, or 3.8%, increase in the quarterly common stock dividend. Our Board took the unusual step to authorize a second dividend increase this year because of the Company's strong performance and financial position, as well as their confidence in the Company's future cash generating capabilities.

Chevron has a long history of annual dividend increases, 24 consecutive years. The two dividend actions in 2011 result in annual quarterly dividend increase of 12.5%, which is consistent with our priority of delivering long-term dividend growth to our shareholders.

Turning to slide four, cash generation from operations was $11.5 billion during the third quarter. This is, yet again, a new quarterly record for the Company and has resulted from continued strong operational performance. Asset sales during the quarter, which included the Pembroke Refinery, generated about $2 billion in proceeds.

Year-to-date cash generated from operations was $32 billion, reflecting the strong cash generating power of our recent investments and of our base business. This strong cash flow allows us to both reinvest in a top-tier project queue as well as reward our shareholders with meaningful dividend growth and a sustainable share repurchase program.

At quarter end our cash balances totaled over $20 billion, up $3.3 billion year-to-date. This puts us in a net cash position of $10.6 billion.

Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparison.

JEANETTE OURADA, GM, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide five, I'll compare results of the third quarter 2011 with the second quarter 2011. As a reminder, our earnings release compares third quarter 2011 with the same quarter a year ago.

Third quarter earnings were $7.8 billion, slightly higher than second quarter earnings. Starting on the left side of the chart, Upstream earnings were down $670 million, driven by lower crude oil realizations and lower volumes partly offset by favorable foreign exchange effects. Downstream results increased $942 million between quarters, benefiting from gains on asset sales, favorable foreign exchange effects, and improved international margins. The variance in the Other bar reflects an unfavorable swing in corporate tax items.

On slide six, our U.S. Upstream earnings for the third quarter were $442 million lower than the second quarter's results. Combined crude oil and natural gas realizations reduced earnings by $190 million. Chevron's average US crude oil realizations decreased 7% between consecutive quarters, slightly higher than the 5% drop in posted Midway Sunset and LLS spot prices.

Natural gas realizations also dropped, decreasing 5% between quarters, in line with average Henry Hub spot prices. Between quarters sales volumes decreased 32,000 barrels oil equivalent per day, decreasing earnings by $105 million. The Other bar is comprised of a number of unrelated items, including the absence of gains on several small asset sales during the second quarter.

Turning to slide seven, international Upstream earnings were down $228 million compared with the second quarter. Lower realizations decreased earnings by $225 million. Unit realizations for liquids decreased about 4% in line with the decrease in average Brent spot prices.

Natural gas realizations were relatively flat between periods, but benefited earnings by about $45 million due to sales mix. Lower liftings across multiple countries decreased earnings by $250 million. Between consecutive quarters, liquids liftings were down 54,000 barrels per day and natural gas sales volumes were down 26,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. Comparing third quarter liquids production with third quarter liquids liftings, we were under-lifted by about 1%.

Moving to the next bar, as you know the UK raised the effective tax rate from 50% to 62% in July, retroactive to March. The total impact recognized in the third quarter was $180 million, about $135 million related to the first six months and about $45 million related to the current quarter.

Moving to the next bar, a favorable change in foreign currency effects benefited earnings by $275 million. The U.S. dollar strengthened against many currencies, most notably the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar.

The third quarter had a foreign exchange gain of about $305 million compared to a small gain of about $30 million in the second quarter. These foreign exchange effects have minimal impacts on cash. They are primarily balance sheet translation effects.

The other bar reflects a number of items, including lower exploration expense and lower OpEx.

In total, our global Upstream earned almost $27 per barrel for the quarter. Based on preliminary competitor results announced today, we outpaced our nearest competitor by over $5.50. We've now led our peer group on this metric for over two years.

Slide eight summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Between quarters production decreased 95,000 barrels per day. We don't show a price effects bar this quarter as the production impact from the $4 decrease in average Brent spot prices was negligible due to the timing of cargoes.

Moving to the first bar, impacts relating to a third-party pipeline incident in Thailand negatively affected production by 27,000 barrels per day. Repairs have been completed on the two pipelines. The larger pipeline was back online in August and the smaller pipeline in mid-September.

Gulf of Mexico Tropical Storms Don and Lee decreased production by 10,000 barrels per day. Production has since been restored at all impacted facilities and operations have returned to normal.

Base business production decreased 64,000 barrels per day. Of this, about 30,000 barrels per day was related to a high level of planned and unplanned maintenance in the quarter, most notably in the U.K., Australia, and Kazakhstan. Because the third quarter was a heavy turnaround quarter, as it usually is, I want to highlight that our year-to-date decline rate is in the 3% to 4% range, consistent with our previous guidance.

Incremental production from major capital projects benefited third quarter production by 6,000 barrels per day, primarily driven by the continued ramp up at Frade in Brazil and Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico.

Turning to slide nine, on a year-to-date basis our production averaged 2.68 million barrels per day. Third quarter 2011 was an obvious low in production for us. We do expect to see notably increased production during the fourth quarter on the order of 100,000 to 150,000 barrels per day.

The key drivers of this increase are -- in Thailand pipeline repairs are complete and our production has been fully restored. In addition, we will see new production during the fourth quarter as our Platong II asset quickly ramps up. In the Gulf of Mexico we expect to see improved production as hurricane season comes to an end and from Perdido as a result of recent facility modifications.

In Kazakhstan, we expect a strong fourth quarter at TCO now that major turnarounds are complete and because we normally see higher production during cooler weather. And our other significant annual turnarounds are essentially complete.

Looking beyond the quarter, I want to remind you of our long-term guidance. At the end of 2009 we said we would grow production on average 1% per year through 2014 and then grow 4% to 5% thereafter. For the first two years we are doing that and I am reaffirming our original guidance now.

With the strength and scale of our major capital projects and our strong base business performance, we continue to expect production to grow to 3.3 million barrels per day by 2017. We are advancing the queue, reaching critical milestones, and are well placed to deliver consistent growth and performance over the long term.

Turning to slide 10, U.S. Downstream earnings improved $140 million in the third quarter. Indicator margins weakened between quarters, decreasing earnings by $225 million.

Refining and marketing margins for both the Gulf Coast and West Coast weakened relative to last quarter. On the West Coast inventories lingered above seasonal averages, and for both the West and Gulf Coast gasoline demand declined at the end of peak driving season. However, realized margins strengthened between quarters increasing earnings by $250 million. Pascagoula and El Segundo refineries both benefited from running more economic crude slates during the quarter.

Higher produced volumes increased earnings by $30 million, driven mainly by the absence of second quarter maintenance. The Other bar consists of several unrelated items, including lower OpEx and stronger trading results.

On slide 11, international Downstream earnings were also higher this quarter increasing $802 million from second quarter's results. Refining and marketing margins benefited earnings by $55 million due to improved Korean marketing margins and continued strong Asian demand. Gains on asset sales improved earnings by $490 million. This includes the Pembroke Refinery and related marketing facilities in the UK and Ireland.

Positive foreign currency effects benefited earnings by $240 million, primarily in our affiliates. Third quarter's foreign exchange gain was about $145 million, compared to the second quarter loss of about $95 million. The other bar includes a number of unrelated items.

Slide 12 covers All Other. Third quarter charges were $358 million compared to a net $183 million charge in the second quarter, an increase of $175 million between periods. An unfavorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $167 million variance and corporate charges were slightly higher by $8 million in the third quarter.

Year-to-date all other charges were $929 million. We believe our quarterly guidance range of $250 million to $350 million for net charges in the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.

Mike is now going to provide an update on our Downstream operations. Mike?

MIKE WIRTH, EVP, DOWNSTREAM & CHEMICALS, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Jeanette. I'm pleased to have an opportunity to update everyone on our Downstream performance. We continue to focus on improving returns through a relentless commitment to operating safely and reliably and driving improvements through all our business operations.

Please turn to slide 14.

I'd like to start with an update in the area of reliability, where we now have 2010 Solomon data. This comprehensive, biennial third-party benchmarking survey shows that Chevron ranked number one among major competitors in refinery utilization for the third consecutive period.

Reliable operations are the foundation of competitiveness and the reduction of unplanned shutdowns enables us to capture maximum value from our installed capacity. I've talked to you for years now about our commitment to reliability and this independent assessment shows the results of that commitment. I'm extremely proud of this outcome as it demonstrates our sustained leadership in an essential measure of operational excellence.

Year-to-date 2011 we've delivered utilization rates at close to 2010 levels, and our people are focused on continuing to sustain this level of performance.

Please turn to slide 15. In March, I updated you on the progress of our organizational restructuring to lower our costs. At that time we delivered a reduction in headcount of some 20% versus a year-end 2008 baseline, largely through work simplification and streamlining.

As of the end of the third quarter, we now stand at a reduction of 34% or 6,300 people, mostly outside of the U.S. This continued progress reflects portfolio rationalization and our significant efforts to keep our cost structure lean and competitive.

On the right-hand side of this chart you see an update on our commitment to improve refining performance by $700 million by the end of next year. More than a year ahead of schedule we've exceeded our target and captured $750 million in annual improvements.

We've optimized a number of individual units across multiple refineries which have increased yield, lowered blend costs, and reduced lesser-valued product streams. At the same time, modest investments in mechanical improvements have allowed us to lower energy, water treatment, and catalyst costs. We'll use 2010 Solomon data to confirm the impact of these improvements and to establish targets for additional improvement.

Please turn to slide 16. I'd also like to update you on our efforts to high grade and simplify our portfolio to improve focus, efficiency, and returns.

We've made continued progress this year, including 21 more country exits, primarily in Africa, the Caribbean, and Central America; eight logistics asset divestments, including six terminals in the United States, and the sale of our UK and Ireland refining and marketing assets, including the Pembroke Refinery. And we still have a number of other portfolio actions in progress. We've signed sales agreements in Spain and Africa, and are in final negotiations for the sale of additional assets in the Caribbean.

Since beginning this portfolio work in 2005 we have generated more than $8 billion in cash as a result of these actions.

Turning to slide 17, we're also optimizing our business line focus moving investment into higher return business segments. I'd like to highlight four important lubricants and chemicals projects.

In Saudi Arabia, Chevron Phillips Chemical's Saudi Polymer Company achieved mechanical completion and is on track to start up a 1.2 million tons per year ethylene cracker and associated derivative units.

We reached final investment decision to fund the 25,000 barrel per day Pascagoula Base Oil Plant, which when completed in 2013 will make us the world's leading supplier of premium base oil.

We plan to expand our Oronite specialty chemicals plant in Singapore, already the largest additives plant in the Asia-Pacific region, to increase supply capability in the fast-growing Asia-Pacific market. FID is scheduled for next year.

And Chevron Phillips Chemical is conducting a feasibility study of a world-scale ethane cracker on the U.S. Gulf Coast that would utilize advantage feed made available by the development of shale gas resources. CP Chem has a very strong existing position in this market and a competitive advantage in the ability to run a lighter feed slate with more ethane than the industry in general. On top of that they've got excellent infrastructure and logistics capabilities, and are one of the first in the industry to advance plans for new cracker investments.

With multiple facilities in the region and a proven track record of capability and performance, we're confident that CP Chem has a leg up on the right kind of project to deliver strong returns. We'll keep you advised as this project progresses. Turning to slide 18.

In summary, we continue to operate safely and reliably and are delivering very competitive financial results. With year-to-date adjusted earnings per barrel of $3.15 and return on capital employed of 19%, we've come a long way in the last two years. Our relative competitive performance on these two measures was strong in 2010 and continues to be strong this year, where we stand number one on earnings per barrel and number two on ROCE after nine months.

We've got the right strategies and are executing on our commitments. I am confident we will continue to deliver excellent performance in the quarters to come.

With that, I'd like to turn it over back to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thanks, Mike. Now turning to slide 19, I'd like to close out with a few highlights of Chevron's strategic progress during the quarter.

Mike just covered our Downstream progress; clearly our plans to improve the competitiveness of our Downstream operations are well on track. Let me cover some of the highlights on Upstream now.

Most recently, we achieved first production at Platong II in the Gulf of Thailand. This natural gas project is expected to ramp up to 330 million cubic feet per day and it will also produce about 18,000 barrels per day of natural gas liquids.

We made final investment decisions on a number of major capital projects this quarter. In Australia, we sanctioned the Wheatstone LNG project, which along with the Gorgon project, positions us to be one of the world's leading LNG suppliers.

The project cost estimate for Wheatstone is $29 billion. It is a two-train, 8.9 million-ton-per-year LNG facility and a domestic gas plant. We currently have about 60% of our equity LNG under long-term sales agreements.

In the North Sea, the second phase of the Clair Ridge development received a green light. This project is expected to cost $7.1 billion and will extend peak production and increase recovery from the Clair Ridge field.

We also sanctioned the Tubular Bells project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. First production from this $2.3 billion oil and gas development is expected in 2014 with peak production at 40,000 to 45,000 barrels per day oil equivalent.

Our exploration activities have accelerated throughout the year. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we recently announced the Moccasin oil discovery and spud our Coronado well. We also spud a pre-salt well in Angola and in offshore China we have just begun drilling our first well in the deepwater Pearl River Mouth Basin. In Australia, we announced a discovery at Acme West and we have just spud our Vos well.

We are also progressing our global shale activity with our first well currently drilling in Canada's Duvernay and with an imminent spud of our first well in Poland.

It's clear that we are in a growth phase through mid-decade. You see this on the long-term production slide Jeanette reviewed earlier with you. And it is reinforced as I run through these strategic milestones, where we are evaluating newly captured acreage and continuing to sanction new development projects.

We have indicated previously that our medium-term C&E requirements would be robust, a direct result of having such a healthy and, frankly enviable, development queue. For 2012 I am not in a position just yet to offer a firm C&E target, but you should expect a noticeable increase from current spending levels. We will be reviewing our investment plans with our Board in just a few weeks and we will be announcing the 2012 target investment figure, most likely in the first week of December.

In closing, the Company is operating very well. Our financial performance is quite strong, our strategies are the right ones, and we are executing well against them. Our shareholders are benefiting from both growing dividends and an expanding share repurchase program.

We're truly excited about the value creation opportunities ahead for us. We're committed to delivering disciplined growth and shareholder value for a long time to come.

So that now concludes our prepared remarks. Because last quarter we had several analysts who didn't get an opportunity to ask a question, we ask that you limit yourself to no more than two questions. We want to be sure to give everybody a chance this time.

So now, Sean, if you could open up the lines for questions, we'll get started.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, everyone. Very strong cash flow again this quarter.

Just a quick question; obviously you have taken FID on Wheatstone and Tubular Bells. People out there do question the returns on perhaps the initial phases of Wheatstone and the Tubular Bells project. Clearly Wheatstone is more strategic. But what would you say that the people might be missing when you think about the returns for both of those projects?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think actually both of the projects are strongly economic. You did mention the strategic aspect around Wheatstone and there is a prospect of brownfield expansion beyond the initial commitments that we have made.

We continue to be very successful in the Australian basin in finding gas. I think we have announced 11 discoveries over the last couple of years, so obviously it's a very prolific basin. So that will have strong returns for a very long time to come.

At the same time, the Gulf of Mexico is a strategic basin for us as well and the economics on Tubular Bells look strong. They are competitive in our portfolio.

ED WESTLAKE: And maybe specifically on Wheatstone, obviously $29 billion total CapEx. How quickly are you going to be able to get spend going into, say, 2012?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think that our project team was waiting for the final investment decision to be made. They are very anxious and ready and, in fact, are ramping up as we speak. And so I would expect there to be a significant ramp up there in 2012 for Wheatstone.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Couple questions. First, for R&M, other than, say, the pending sales in Spain, Africa, and the Caribbean, are you largely done with the portfolio restructuring, or then you still have significant more to go?

And also if you can give a comment about Richmond, whether that we are going to see any progress on the upgrading there. Then also with the Eagle Ford, the increasing NGL and the condensate production, have you guys looked at whether it makes sense in Pascagoula or some of your facility adding a condensate splitter to take advantage on that?

MIKE WIRTH: Okay, Paul. I will take those in order. First of all, on the portfolio. We have tried to lay out for you on an annual basis the larger portfolio actions that are underway or the clusters of geographies. And as I mentioned, Spain and a little bit of Africa still is pending with some deals signed and yet to close.

We are negotiating on businesses in the Caribbean still -- Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, a number of the other islands in the Caribbean -- and would expect to have deals on those signed before the end of this year and close next year. Beyond that, we'll always continue to review our portfolio for competitiveness, but I think the big work will be complete in 2012. And if we have got any other things that we anticipate doing here in the near term, you'll hear about them in March.

But we are winding this down towards the portfolio that we really believe is right for us and will allow us to deliver sustained, very competitive returns.

On Richmond, you know the history so I won't reprise that. We continue to be committed to investing under the right circumstances in a project there.

In May of this year we submitted an application to the city of Richmond restarting the environmental review process and taking clear note of the deficiencies in the prior process that were noted by the judge in the lawsuit.

We have scaled it back. We initially had a significantly larger set of projects that we were undertaking and moving through the permitting process. The revised project will only complete the replacement of a very old hydrogen plant equipment and give us the ability to use that hydrogen both on-site at the refinery and to export some of it to other users.

We have removed a catalytic -- a continuous cat reformer project and some other power plant replacement projects. So we have scaled it back.

The other point I would make is this doesn't really change the basic function of the refinery. What it does is it allows the refinery to remain competitive by replacing older equipment with newer, cleaner technologies to reduce emissions and improve efficiency. We have got some of the toughest environmental laws in the world in California and the Richmond refinery is one of the most efficient and low-emitting refineries that we have.

So we believe that this is a sound project and, frankly, shouldn't be as controversial as it has become. I can't speculate on when we're going to receive permits or when construction would continue. So we will keep you advised as we go through that process.

Finally, on Pascagoula. Pascagoula has got a big coker and we are investing in a lube oil plant there. And so it has very good product flexibility and it has got good crude flexibility in terms of taking in heavier or more sour crudes to take advantage of the discounts there. We are undertaking some further crude flexibility work to bring in other higher viscosity crudes, higher acid crudes, but have not undertaken anything relative to a condensate splitter there.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, thank you. Pat, a quick one --

PAT YARRINGTON: Paul, we need to go on to the next person.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, will do.

PAT YARRINGTON: If there is room at the end, we will take you again okay.

PAUL CHENG: All right.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, everybody. Pat, if I can take my full course of two, hopefully, quick ones.

First of all, I appreciate the update from Jeanette on timing, or at least on capital, I should say, on the production outlook. However, can you reiterate or reaffirm the timing on Gorgon? Because we are hearing chatter out of Australia that things might have slipped behind schedule, both on a budget and on a timing basis. If you could reaffirm that.

My quick follow-up, I guess take advantage of Mike being on the line here. Mike, it looks like, at least on our model, when we look at capture rates on the international business and particularly on the U.S. business that relative to your indicator margins things seem to have kind of deteriorated a little bit versus to what you were able to capture previously from the same assets.

I'm just wondering if something has changed notably there that you could share with us. And I will leave it at that, thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, I'll take the first one there on Gorgon. We are reaffirming our timing of Gorgon, which would include production, first production at the end of 2014.

I think we've been pretty transparent about some of the weather-related delays that we had initially on when eight cyclones went through before we had much of the site prep work done. That has been resolved. We've now got the housing facilities that are cyclone proof, so should there be bad weather again we won't have to demobilize people on and off and remobilize people on and off the island.

We've actually made tremendous progress over the last several months. The materials offloading facility is ready for service; that will make the logistics moving quite easy. I mentioned the housing is really already -- 80% of it's there and occupied.

We've got the tankage being built. We have the wells being drilled. So there is really tremendous progress that is being made on Gorgon.

And to the extent that you hear some chatter about schedule slippage, as you know, we continue -- there are critical path items and non-critical path items on any major project schedule and we feel very secure that our critical path items are right on plan.

MIKE WIRTH: Doug, on the question on capture rates, I don't know exactly what your model is showing you. In the third quarter we had a very good quarter. In fact, in the U.S. we saw some significant margin deterioration.

The West Coast refining margins were off by $3 a barrel or more, and we saw some reductions on the Gulf Coast as well. Actually the West Coast was down $5 and the Gulf Coast was down $3. We were actually able to capture that back and claw it back. And, likewise, internationally we ran pretty well.

Earlier in the year -- and so if you are looking at year-to-date -- we did have some issues in the first and particularly the second quarter with some extended turnarounds at one of our facilities and a fire at another one that took a crude unit off-line for a while. That had us running slates different than we normally would and selling out intermediates and buying intermediates, which are some things that can chew into your margins while you are operating like that.

So earlier in the year we did have some challenges, but in the third quarter we did well. There is nothing material that has changed in terms of our ability to continue to be competitive in that regard.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie Capital.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Thanks very much. First of all, I wanted to ask a question about Australia with the incremental exploration success.

Pat, maybe if you could update us on what you think the resource base that you have captured in Australia is and sort of contrast that with what I calculate to be about 23 Tcf you would need to back up the two projects that are currently under construction or at least approved.

Then a very specific one for Mike. Mike, you had mentioned a couple of years ago a technology that you were piloting in Pascagoula. It was a vacuum resid hydrocracking process with near 100% clean product yield. How is that process going? Is that something that you think could be commercialized?

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, first one on Gorgon. Actually Jason, I wish I had a slide in front of me that I would just refer you back to. George showed a slide at our security analyst meeting back in March where he talked to the incremental gas quantities being found and the points over time when we have sanctioned these various projects.

What you continue to see is that we continue to find additional resources, both that can support an additional Train 4 around Gorgon and then also potentially supporting additional trains around Wheatstone. So I don't have any incrementally new number to advise you of that. I suggest that you go back and pull out that slide and know that we have continued to have major success since March. And that George, I am sure, will update you in March with some rendition of that slide.

But obviously, it is a very prolific gas basin and we are very encouraged about the exploration success that we continue to have.

MIKE WIRTH: And Jason, on the technology that we talked about a few years back, we continue to mature that in a pilot plant and to very good results. We looked very hard at a couple of different locations at a pre-commercial plant that would run at a few thousand barrels a day, and prove it up so that we could scale it up. The capital costs on that were pretty significant. And at a time when we have got a lot of other value-creating capital opportunities in our queue -- and the questions today have been about a number of those -- we are prioritizing our activity.

And this one really, at the scale it would take for us to answer the next set of questions as we manage our way through capital spend, it just doesn't stack up.

So we've got the technology, we've got it well covered with IP protection and we will maintain it. But at this point, we have chosen not to proceed to the next step of scale-up on that.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay. Thanks very much, guys.

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Two quick ones. With Angola will that be a fourth quarter TD or first quarter on the pre-salt well?

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't know. I mean, it just started drilling so I don't think you are talking about a fourth quarter outcome here. I think you are really talking much into or early into 2012.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, that is fine. With Wheatstone, Pat, could you address what you think reserve bookings might be? Initially you started out with a small amount for projects that are sanctioned offshore. I was wondering if you were willing to give an order of magnitude.

PAT YARRINGTON: I'm not willing to give an order of magnitude. We will do that, obviously, with our year-end reports. But having sanctioned Wheatstone, and the fact that is an LNG project, will mean that you should see a sizable reserve booking this year.

JOHN HERRLIN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everybody. I will keep it to two questions, one Downstream and one on exploration.

Question for Mike on your near-term refining outlook. Good quarter, good Downstream quarter, by the way. As I look at the European inventory, both distillate and crude at seven- and five-year lows, U.S. day cover five lows, steep backwardation in the product market. I was wondering what your perspective was on the near-term distillate markets, as well as what you are seeing in Asia where there is -- frankly, inventory and demand data are a little less transparent.

On the Japan cargo side, I think you had comments there last time you were on the call as well.

MIKE WIRTH: Okay, so I will take that one and then we will take your follow-up question.

Yes, so right now sentiment seems to swing. We had some optimism about the announcements out of Europe earlier this week, but I think overall in the OECD the demand side and the overall economic situation continues to be problematic. And so there is some risk.

Now you've gone to the part of the barrel where things look better, which is distillate. Japanese diesel demand looks to be up pretty sharply. We have seen a strong draw in stocks in Japan in October. There is some talk -- and you are right -- in China, things are less transparent, but some talk that diesel may be a little bit on the short end there right now.

Certainly, as you look at the data here for the U.S., the implied diesel demand, including exports which have become a regular part of the mix here, it's above the five-year average. We are well into the harvest season and moving into cooler weather, so there is a number of supportive factors for distillate demand right now and the spreads reflect that. If you look at the NYMEX right now, distillate commands quite a healthy premium to gasoline.

Gasoline markets look weak right now. High prices; demand has been struggling to stay within range of what we saw a year ago here in the U.S. and so the gasoline part of the barrel continues to be pretty weak.

I think in Asia it's a mix, as always. There is a quote from Lee Kwan Yu that Asia is a figment of the Western imagination. Things in places like China and Singapore look very, very strong. Thailand and the Philippines right now are really struggling with weather and the impact of the floods in Thailand and a couple of typhoons that took a pretty direct shot at the large demand centers in the Philippines.

And then there is other parts of Asia, like Japan, where demand continues to be pretty weak. So, overall, I think China remains the big story and I think distillate is the part of the barrel that we continue to see the strength in.

EVAN CALIO: Great. That is great. My follow-up question is on exploration.

I know that Cabinda and then Block O have been very prolific for Chevron. You kind of highlighted the pre-salt well. I think you have drilled through that salt before and so I think it's thinner and less uniform. But as you were highlighting that well, I presume it's a material well. I just wondered if you could -- is there something different or more prospective here?

And then update on Liberia spud date, maybe Bear's Hump as well.

PAT YARRINGTON: Evan, there is not really much more I can offer on the Angola well. We'll just have to wait and see how that comes out.

The Liberia spud date is later here in the fourth quarter. And that again is -- three large blocks it's the first well; highly prospective or we hope it will be highly prospective area.

Bear's Hump same kind of thing. Bear's Hump is still drilling and we'll have to wait and see what the outcome there is. That is Gulf of Mexico deep gas and we will just have to wait and see.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, great. Thanks for the update.

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, The Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: Folks, good morning. Mike, I got one for you relating to some of Jeanette's comments. In discussing the U.S. Downstream in the third quarter she referenced a very, very sizable impact associated with, I think she termed it, a more economic crude slate.

If you do the math on those numbers that is a big figure on a per barrel basis. Could you talk about what that is about and the sustainability of it? And in particular, the extent to which it's associated with market factors as opposed to specific Chevron initiatives? And then I have a follow-up.

MIKE WIRTH: So the thing that I think you ought to pay attention to in there is it's a 2Q to 3Q comparison, number one. Number two, it reflects some of the challenges I referenced earlier in that earlier in the year we had some refineries that had some issues.

We had a fire at the Pascagoula, one of our crude units at Pascagoula, in the second quarter and so we were off-line there buying higher-priced intermediates to keep the backend conversion units full. We had some problems at El Segundo in the second quarter as well.

In the third quarter, by contrast, everything ran extraordinarily well. We had virtually no unanticipated issues to face and we were able to optimize some spreads that had opened up in the market. We also have a couple of our refineries that are smaller, Burnaby and Hawaii, that purchase a fair amount of their feedstock priced off of WTI. And while we don't have the big WTI exposure that some of the larger Mid-Continent refiners do, that's been a non-trivial factor for those refineries as well.

So you have a number of issues, some of them market related, some of them operations related, and some of the Chevron related, all of which moved significantly to the positive in Q3. A number of which were either not nearly as strong in Q2 or, given the operational challenges, actually negatives in Q2. So without trying to take you down into a detailed breakdown on that, Mark, I would tell you that you shouldn't bank on all that as being kind of a sustainable kind of a way to beat the market, but there is certainly a chunk of that that I think is.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, Mike, thanks. Pat, you've been in the global LNG selling/contracting business for a while. Was wondering if you could just comment on the kind of trends you're seeing in the more recent LNG contracts in terms of such features as the slope, S curve aspects and anything else you might want to comment on in terms of how that market is looking.

PAT YARRINGTON: Actually, what we're seeing, frankly, is I would call it a strengthening of the midterm LNG market really with fallout from the Fukushima circumstance. And so I would say in the medium term it's been a stronger market.

So we -- I think you can get an indication of what the various slopes have been from various publications. I don't want to go into specifics there, but I think the contracts -- we are not working off of S curve interpretations and we feel very comfortable about where we sit commercially. We have additional volumes that we can still place with Wheatstone and Gorgon, frankly. We are in discussions with numerous buyers on that, and we feel very optimistic about our ability to find quality buyers at very good commercial terms.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, guys. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL: Good morning, thanks for taking my question. I had two quick ones for you. One, I wanted to clarify the production comment.

If I'm not mistaken, the guidance last quarter was for full-year volumes of 2.73 million barrels a day. And if I heard the correct number for ramp up in 4Q of 100,000 to 150,000 it seems like you may come in a bit light according to my arithmetic. I'm just trying to confirm, is that the case?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think that's a fair assessment, yes.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, thanks. And then, secondly, as we kind of look ahead to CapEx I realize you will be giving some details in December, but, in our efforts to try and quantify what that could be, when we look at Wheatstone you are 73% working interest I believe?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Can you give us any clue for where you expect that number to ultimately land or are you maintaining that level?

PAT YARRINGTON: You mean in terms of our equity ownership?

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Correct.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, we do anticipate a further sell down here. That's our expectation, yes.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Is there a targeted percentage level that we should be thinking about maybe?

PAT YARRINGTON: You mean in terms of the -- in terms of our overall ownership?

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Yes, right. How low do you want to get?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think that really depends on commercial discussions that are underway here, and I think having a proportionality in a 70%, 70%-ish range works well for us. I don't want to get any more specific than that I think.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, that's great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Hi there, guys. Got a couple questions for Mike actually.

Firstly, a bit of a big picture one on the Downstream, Mike. If you kind of step back to 2009 and look at where you've come in terms of improvements in your Downstream earnings, if you split that between the portfolio actions you have done on cost reduction and kind of new investment, how would that improvement kind of breakdown? I'm also interested in about how you see, in a constant margin environment, that improving in the future.

MIKE WIRTH: So that is something in March that I'll update everybody on, because we laid out some pretty specific targets against our 2009 performance and I just don't have a breakdown in front of me right now. I would tell you from a big picture standpoint we have certainly seen margins better than what we experienced in 2009. So a portion of what you have seen in the Downstream is due to improved fundamentals out there in the marketplace.

But we have made sizable cost reductions. I spoke to you a third reduction in headcount. We have reduced our positions in a lot of countries around the world where, frankly, we worked hard to not take a lot home and we are coring up into the areas where we really have competitive strength. So the cost side of it and the portfolio side have been very important.

The other part is reliability and I talked to you about our utilization rates. We are running our assets extremely well and better than our competitors are. You take whatever the market has to offer you and if you can continue to run reliably you can be very, very competitive.

So there are contributions from the market that are non-trivial, but there is a big, big piece of self-help that I'll talk about when we are back in New York again in March. I just don't have a specific breakdown for you this morning.

I do think that the self-help piece is intended to be sustainable and in the Downstream it's a margin business. The competition is tough and hanging on to the improvements is always a challenge, which is why we continually reset targets to get even better. And I made reference to that today in our refining system.

IAIN REID: Okay, thanks, Mike. My second question is about CP Chem. I just wonder whether you have got any concerns about the new kind of co-owner which you are going to have there some time in next year and whether there is any plans for any change in the way the joint venture is set up.

MIKE WIRTH: You know, this joint venture has been very successful over the decade that it's been in place. And Phillips and then Conoco Philips has been a very good partner, and we have been well aligned.

I think that they have indicated they intend this to go to their downstream company. The CEO of that downstream company has been announced and he happens to be the former CEO of Chevron Phillips Chemical company. So he is a strong leader and somebody who we know well and have a good relationship with.

We are having discussions with them to ensure that we remain aligned, but I can tell you that in the boardroom and in shareholder discussions with them we see more alignment than we see differences that is for sure. They will be a smaller company and they will be a company that is purely exposed to the fundamentals of the downstream business. And so that could become an issue over time, but we'll just have to see how that plays out.

IAIN REID: Okay, Mike, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning, everyone. Mike, thanks for being on the call. Could I ask you about California crude pricing and feedstock pricing from the point of view of your position as a major producer and consumer there? I am just thinking that things are shifting over time quite dramatically in California. Thanks.

MIKE WIRTH: Without knowing exactly what you are referring to, I would tell as an equity producer of heavy crude in the San Joaquin Valley we are seeing strong pricing for that crude today. So as an upstream producer we are enjoying the demand for that crude. You match that up with where domestic natural gas prices are and our steamflood there is quite economic at these kinds of natural gas prices.

So it's a good place to be; there's strong demand for that crude. We have got options with both pipeline connections to those fields and the ability to bring in cargoes from other markets to support our upstream with good, strong runs of our equity heavy crudes and keep our refinery competitive by taking advantage of opportunities to bring in South American heavies, for instance into El Segundo.

So it has been a market that I think has been good for our Upstream and it hasn't been bad for our Downstream business.

PAUL SANKEY: You are heading exactly where I wanted you to. On San Joaquin I was just wondering; you said it's the demand effect that is causing the big premium that we are seeing relative to historical premiums?

MIKE WIRTH: Yes, people are set up to run these heavy crudes, not just our refinery but other refineries that are connected to it. And with some of the demand you see in Asia that is pulling some of the heavy crudes to Asia the options have changed and the reliance on certain feedstocks, particularly when you are tied to a pipeline where you can get it in, is something that you have to confront as a refiner.

So I do think you've seen some shifting dynamics there, which put a little more pressure on the refiners to be sure that they are as good as they can be. And it has been healthy for our Upstream.

PAUL SANKEY: Sure. Has it -- I know it's an Upstream question, but have you been suffering permitting issues offsetting that benefit?

PAT YARRINGTON: In the San Joaquin Valley, are you talking, Paul?

PAUL SANKEY: Yes.

PAT YARRINGTON: No, we haven't. We obviously work very closely with the regulators, but we haven't seen any sort of negative impact associated with additional regulatory oversight there.

MIKE WIRTH: Not out of the normal for California.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well said, Mike. Yes.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, great. And then my second, if I could, Pat, to you. I know you hate it when I describe it as a war chest but it is notable that you've got over $10 billion.

You have obviously done the dividend step up, which I guess is very unusual for you to raise twice in a year. I'm not sure you have ever done it, frankly. Why not more buyback in Q4?

PAT YARRINGTON: Paul, I guess it's coming down to I guess no matter how you give the cash away people aren't -- not everybody is happy all the time.

We felt very good about the second quarter -- the second time in a year dividend increase. We have done it in the past, typically when you have seen a significant run-up in commodity prices in a short period of time. And that is really what we saw here in 2011.

So our cash balance for 2011 is coming in much stronger than we thought it would be at the beginning of the year, and the dividend increase was really intended to signal confidence in our current position as well as our future cash-generating position.

We do look at the share repurchases every quarter. We do run through that sort of discussion with the Board and at this particular time the preference is given over to dividends. We think that actually sends a stronger signal about the performance of the Company presently and really on a go-forward basis, because we view it as a permanent increase.

All I can say is we will continue to look every quarter at the cash balance. We'll look at our medium-term outlook on prices, margins, C&E requirements. I did signal that we would have a more -- a noticeable uptick in C&E in 2012 relative to current spending. So all of that gets taken into account when we look at the share repurchase decision.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. I realize it's 11.58 so I'll hop off. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning. Just had a question on -- you mentioned the Duvernay. I was just questioning any other activity, as far as unconventional, in the lower 48 or even in Canada as far as acreage adds go during the quarter.

PAT YARRINGTON: Not during the quarter, no. We've continued to add significantly in unconventional properties over the course of the last 12 and 18 months, and we've been pretty descriptive about what all those properties were. I think some 15 million acres in total added over that period of time for all acreage, of which certainly the unconventional gas is a portion of that.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. And then just one for Mike. It looks like last week California regulators voted to move ahead with some sort of carbon market in California by 2013. I am just wondering what you see as the impact for Chevron there. ()Is there going to be increased costs or is that going to be something that is going to be passed along to the consumer?

MIKE WIRTH: It's a great question. California has decided to go it alone, or largely alone here, on climate change. The benchmark calculations are still not clear. The first compliance period is 2013 through 2014. Transportation fuels are not included in the first compliance period, which is where a real consumer pass-through issue will absolutely exist.

And so at this point, I think in the early portion of the program, we feel like because we have very efficient facilities and have invested in energy efficiency that we can manage our way through the beginning. But I have to tell you just a few facts.

California energy prices are some of the highest in the nation, whether you are talking about electricity or fuels. By policy this is designed to drive prices higher and at some point businesses have to confront that, as do the consumers of those businesses' products. And in a state where the economy is challenged, where employment is challenged, and with a fiscal situation that is unsustainable I think the effects here are predictable.

And so we're on a policy path in California that I think is going to need to be addressed by policy makers over time.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. Thanks for that commentary.

PAT YARRINGTON: I think we have got time for one last question here.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Very quick one if I may. I believe the last resource estimate for the Wheatstone fields was given back in 2008. Given the discoveries since then, I am curious what kind of color you can give on the current resource base.

PAT YARRINGTON: Pavel, I don't have a number handy. Again, I hate to -- next time I come into the call I'll bring that slide. There is a slide that George showed that talked about the entire Australian resource opportunity. I just have to refer you to that.

We will update that slide come March because we have had additional success but I don't have a specific number for you here today.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Understood.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Thank you very much. I think that concludes our discussion here this morning. Let me thank everybody for their participation on the call today. I want to thank particularly those who asked questions, because I think it enlarges the debate and the understanding for everybody.

So thank you, everyone, I appreciate your interest in Chevron.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's third quarter 2011 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111111e7as00796
  


 HD
 Q2  2011  Chevron  Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,311 words
   PD
29 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

   TD
I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP AND CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Great. Thank you, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's second quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are George Kirkland, Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Upstream and Gas; and Jeanette Ourada, General Manager, Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2011. I'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown on slide two.

Slide three provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's second quarter earnings were $7.7 billion or $3.85 per diluted share. Comparing the second quarter 2011 to the same quarter a year earlier, our earnings were up 43%. Upstream benefited from higher crude oil prices and Downstream benefited from improved margins. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was over 19%.

Our debt ratio at the end of June was 9.1%. In the second quarter, we had share repurchases of $1 billion. Effective for the third quarter, and reflecting the strength in crude prices and of our current near-term outlook, we are increasing the upper end of our target range on share repurchases to $2 billion. In the third quarter, we expect share repurchases of $1.25 billion.

Turning to slide four, cash generated from operations was nearly $11 billion during the second quarter. This is a new record for the Company, topping last quarter's performance. Year-to-date, we have used the strong cash flow in a manner completely consistent with our established financial priorities. We raised the dividend in the second quarter by 8%, we've funded a strong capital program, and made some modest acquisitions. Both the organic and the inorganic components of these outlays are poised to earn attractive returns and drive future growth for the Company.

We've also continued to strengthen our balance sheet, and we've returned surplus cash to our shareholders in the form of share buybacks. At quarter-end, our cash balances totaled nearly $18 billion. This puts us in a net cash position of $6.5 billion.

Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.

JEANETTE OURADA, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide five, I'll compare results of the second quarter 2011 with the first quarter 2011. As a reminder, our earnings release compares second quarter 2011 with the same quarter a year ago.

Second quarter earnings were $7.7 billion, $1.5 billion higher than the first quarter. Starting on the left side of the chart, Upstream earnings were up $894 million, driven by higher crude oil realizations. Downstream results increased $422 million between quarters, benefiting from improved margins. The variance in the other bar reflects a favorable swing in corporate tax items and lower corporate charges.

On slide six, our U.S. Upstream earnings for the second quarter were $501 million higher than the first quarter's results. Combined crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $420 million. U.S. crude realizations increased 17% between consecutive quarters, well above the 8% increase in the average spot price of West Texas Intermediate. As a reminder, our U.S. crude realizations are tied primarily to Mars, Louisiana light sweet, and San Joaquin Valley heavy crudes, all of which traded at premiums to WTI during the second quarter.

Natural gas realizations also improved, increasing 8% between quarters, slightly higher than the 5% increase in the average Henry Hub bid week. Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $55 million between periods, reflecting higher costs related to maintenance activities across multiple assets, including more workovers. The higher expenses also reflect a full quarter of operations for our new Marcellus assets. The other bar is comprised of a number of unrelated items, including gains on several small asset sales and higher volumes, due to an additional day between quarters.

Turning to slide seven, international Upstream earnings were up $393 million compared with the first quarter. Higher oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $875 million. Average liquids realizations increased 12%, in line with the increase in average Brent spot prices. Natural gas realizations contributed $70 million of the variance, improving 9% between quarters. This improvement was driven by price increases in our primary Asian gas markets, which have crude linked pricing components. Higher operating expense decreased earnings $205 million. The increase was spread across multiple geographic areas, and included higher environmental remediation expense, and higher maintenance and fuel costs.

You will recall that last year, on our third quarter call, we highlighted our expectation of a 2011 full-year increase in reported operating expense of approximately $1 billion, due to a new Indonesian agreement where we sell oil and purchase natural gas. Previously, we handled this through a volume exchange. There is no bottom-line earnings impact and no impact on production. Year-to-date, our reported operating expense number is up $1.3 billion. Of that, $900 million is from the new Indonesian agreement. At current year-to-date prices, we would expect the full-year impact to be approximately $1.8 billion.

Moving to the next bar, higher exploration expense reduced earnings by $140 million, primarily due to a well write-off in the UK, and higher G&G costs associated with increased exploration activity. The other bar reflects a number of items, including unfavorable tax effects and higher DD&A, partially offset by a favorable swing in foreign exchange and higher liftings. The second quarter had a foreign exchange gain of about $30 million compared to a loss of about $115 million in the first quarter. These foreign exchange effects have minimal impact on cash. They are primarily balance sheet translation effects.

Moving to slide eight -- summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil-equivalent production. Production decreased 66,000 barrels per day between quarters. Higher prices reduced volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts during the second quarter, decreasing production about 8,000 barrels per day. As a reminder, last quarter, we began using Brent to calculate a price effect rate, as it is more closely tied to our international realizations. Average Brent spot prices increased about $12 per barrel between quarters, which resulted in about a 700 barrel per day volume reduction for each dollar increase in Brent. Recall that over a range of prices, this rate is not linear. As prices rise, the production impact per dollar change in Brent decreases.

Moving to the next bar, base business production decreased 66,000 barrels per day, largely driven by maintenance activity in Kazakhstan, Thailand, and the Gulf of Mexico, and lower cost recovery in Trinidad. This bar also reflects a positive impact from a full quarter of Marcellus production and absence of first quarter's weather impacts. Incremental production for major capital projects benefited second quarter production by 8,000 barrels per day, primarily driven by less downtime in Canada and continued ramp-ups at Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico and Tombua-Landana in Angola. George will discuss our current year production outlook in a few minutes.

Turning to slide nine, U.S. Downstream earnings improved $122 million in the second quarter. Indicator margins strengthened between quarters, increasing earnings by $215 million. Refining and marketing margins for both the Gulf Coast and West Coast improved, relative to last quarter, benefiting from higher seasonal demand for gasoline. Refined product margins also showed some strength early in the quarter, as supplies in some areas were affected by refinery maintenance. However, both these factors lessened and margins generally slipped as the quarter progressed. Operating expenses reduced earnings by $35 million, driven mainly by higher third-party credit card fees and transportation costs. The other bar consists of several unrelated items, including lower volumes, partly offset by improved chemicals and trading results.

On slide 10, international Downstream earnings were also higher this quarter, increasing $300 million from first quarter's results. Refining and marketing margins rose in all key regions, benefiting earnings by $165 million. Timing effects represented a $155 million positive earnings variance between quarters. First quarter had a negative $195 million impact, with a smaller impact of negative $40 million in the second quarter.

The primary driver was favorable mark-to-market effects on derivatives tied to underlying physical positions. Negative foreign currency effects impacted earnings by $55 million. Second quarter's foreign exchange loss was about $95 million compared to the first quarter loss of $40 million. The other bar includes a number of unrelated items, including improved Trading and Chemical results, partly offset by lower volumes.

Slide 11 covers all other. Second quarter net charges were $183 million compared to a net $388 million charge in the first quarter, a decrease of $205 million between periods. A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $151 million benefit to earnings. Corporate charges were $54 million lower in the second quarter. Year-to-date, corporate charges were $571 million. We believe our quarterly guidance range of $250 million to $350 million for net charges in the all other segment is still appropriate going forward.

George is now going to provide an update on our Upstream operations. George?

GEORGE KIRKLAND, VICE CHAIRMAN AND EVP OF GLOBAL UPSTREAM AND GAS, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jeanette. It's good to be back to discuss Upstream performance and our production outlook for the remainder of the year. I'd like to begin by looking at our second quarter competitive position on earnings margins. Please turn to slide 13.

In the second quarter, Upstream margins were approximately $29 per barrel, another excellent quarter, reinforcing the strength of our oil weighted portfolio and the high quality of our assets. Based on competitor results disclosed this week, we continue to lead our peers in this key metric. In the second quarter, we are nearly $8 per barrel ahead of our nearest competitor, and over $10 per barrel higher than the peer group average. In addition, we have now held the top position for eight consecutive quarters.

As you would expect, I'm very pleased with our leading position and our ability to sustain this performance over the past two years. While we are discussing margins, I'd like to make a brief comment on operating expense. Excluding fuel, our year-to-date Opex is very consistent with our recent historical performance. This is a positive indicator for maintaining our peer-leading margins.

Through the first half of the year, our return on capital employed was 32%. We've been making smart investment decisions for a long period of time, and we've now achieved the leading position in our peer group. We continue to deliver superior financial performance, and to lead our competition on key operational and financial metrics.

Now I'll turn to production. Please turn to slide 14. Our first-half production averaged 2.73 million barrels a day at the Brent price of $111 per barrel. Based on the year-to-date results and a Brent price of $111 per barrel, our revised full-year production outlook is 2.73 million barrels per day. Adjusted to a $79 per barrel, this equates to 2.76 million barrels per day, a reduction from our original outlook of 30,000 barrels per day.

This revised outlook is the result of two primary drivers -- first, a recent incident in Thailand caused a key third-party gas pipeline to be shut down. And second, a slower than planned ramp-up of the Perdido Project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The full-year production impact of these two items is about 30,000 barrels per day and they are approximately split between the two.

Outside these items, our major capital projects in total are performing as planned. Agbami in Nigeria, SGI/SGP in Kazakhstan, and Frade in Brazil continue to deliver excellent results. Our base business performance has continued to be strong, offsetting the impacts of weather challenges earlier in the year. We have strong momentum entering the second-half of the year, and we remain well-positioned to deliver long-term growth.

Now turning to slide 15, we first showed you this slide last year. Through 2014, we forecast production to grow by approximately 1% per year. And starting in 2014, as our Australian LNG investments come online and begin to ramp up toward full capacity, this growth rate is expected to increase to between 4% and 5%. Our long-term outlook remains unchanged. With the strength and scale of these project and the depth of our portfolio, we expect our production to grow to 3.3 million barrels per day by 2017. Our growth projects are on track. We're advancing the queue. We're reaching critical milestones, and are well-placed to deliver consistent growth and performance over the long-term.

Now let's review our 2011 exploration plans -- on slide 16. We have an active year of exploration. We plan to invest over $2 billion, which includes the drilling of about 60 wells. We have returned to work in the Gulf of Mexico. We currently have three rigs drilling in the deepwater -- an appraisal well at Buckskin, an exploration well at Moccasin, and a development well on the Tahiti II Project. There is no doubt this past year has been a challenge for the Gulf of Mexico. I'm pleased with the recent progress we've made, which is a testament to the hard work of many people to get both Chevron and the industry back to work.

In addition to our deepwater activity, we're also drilling ahead at Bear's Hump. This is a key test of the ultra-deep Wilcox gas play on the Gulf of Mexico shelf. This well is also noteworthy, as we are drilling it from an onshore location. We think there's still a lot of potential in the Gulf and is not all located in the deepwater. Chevron is well-positioned in the lower tertiary play, both in the deepwater and on the shelf.

In Australia, we have two more exploration wells planned this year. One of them is an offset to the Acme discovery we announced last year. We've also been active in acquiring additional acreage, picking up two new leases near Barrow Island. The Carnarvon Basin is a key focus area for Chevron, with 10 discoveries over the last 18 months. We have an aggressive exploration program planned to underpin future expansions at Gorgon and Wheatstone.

In Brazil, we plan to drill a well later this year in the pre-salt section beneath our Frade field. If successful, we'll be in a great position to take advantage of our existing production facilities. We also have some exciting prospects in Liberia, China, Poland, and Canada, that we've discussed before. We plan to start drilling in all of these areas later this year.

Next, on slide 17, I'll highlight some of our recent activities in the Marcellus Shale. In February of this year, we closed on the acquisition of Atlas Energy and are currently working to complete the integration of these assets into our North America business. In May, we announced the acquisition of assets from Chief Oil and Gas and Tug Hill. Through these transactions, we added another 228,000 net acres of high-quality Marcellus Shale to our existing footprint.

Largely focused in Southwestern Pennsylvania, the acreage includes over 30,000 acres of rich gas Marcellus in Marshall County, West Virginia. This expansion of our shale gas portfolio gives us additional high-quality resources as well as strong synergies with existing operations. The acquired assets currently include 22 wells that are on production and an additional 34 wells waiting on completion or pipeline hookup. Combined with Atlas, this acreage is estimated to hold 14 trillion cubic feet of natural gas resources, and is aligned with our strategy to pursue opportunities with long-term organic growth potential.

Next, let's review progress in other key projects on the next slide. Expansion of the Caspian Pipeline has begun. This project will increase capacity to 1.4 million barrels per day from a current level of 730,000 barrels per day, and is a critical step forward in enabling a further expansion of our Tengiz Field in Kazakhstan. The project will be implemented in three phases, with capacity increasing progressively from the period of 2012 to 2015.

At Gorgon, we continue to make good progress on our critical path items, and they remain on track. We've begun horizontal directional drilling for pipeline installation and we also started development drilling operations. Gorgon is presently 25% complete. At Wheatstone, we've received conditional and environmental approvals and are selectively appealing certain conditions. In addition, we announced earlier this week that we have executed LNG sales and purchase agreements with Tokyo Electric, for delivery of up to 3.1 million tons per annum of offtake. This is a significant milestone, as we work toward a final investment decision in the second-half of 2011.

In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we're making progress at Jack/St. Malo, where we've cut first deal on the hull and the topsides. And at Angola LNG, we're beginning to commission the utility systems, and plan to start up subsequent process units throughout the rest of 2011. We are making good progress here and expect first production early next year. In addition, we've acquired more than 1 million acres of shale gas leasehold in Bulgaria. This continues to grow our position in Eastern Europe. Around the world, we have now acquired nearly 5 million net acres of shale gas assets since late 2010.

In summary, we've had a great quarter and a great first half of the year, and are on track to deliver long-term growth. With that, I'd like to now turn it back to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you, George. Turning now to slide 19, I'd like to close out our prepared remarks with some highlights of Chevron's strategic progress during the quarter.

George just gave you an update on recent progress in our Upstream business. We are back to drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, and we continue to execute our major capital projects and to add new resource opportunities to our portfolio. In Downstream, we received government approval to proceed with the sale of our refining and marketing assets in Ireland and the UK, including the Pembroke refinery. We expect to close that sale next week. We are on track and progressing well with our Downstream restructuring plans. During the quarter, we completed several small asset sales in three Central American countries as well as in China and North America.

And finally, I'd like to make a few comments about the current discussions in Washington. Chevron is proud to be a healthy American company. We believe healthy companies are the cure for a sick economy. In the U.S., Chevron directly employs nearly 25,000 people with good jobs and good salaries. Indirectly, we support another 150,000 jobs. We plan to invest over $7 billion in the U.S. this year to expand energy supplies, which creates jobs and generates revenue for federal, state and local treasuries.

We're proud to be part of an industry that is indispensable to economic growth and competitiveness. We want the opportunity to compete on a level playing field, both here at home and around the globe. And we look forward to working constructively under stable, predictable, fiscal and regulatory policies to build a shared prosperity for America and for our shareholders.

So that concludes our prepared remarks. We now welcome your questions. And Sean, I'd ask that you open the line up. Thank you.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Congratulations on the results and the cash generation. Maybe a first one on CapEx. $7.8 billion, I guess, includes the Marcellus acquisitions. Can you talk about maybe where you see underlying CapEx for the year against your plans, and acquisition CapEx as well?

PAT YARRINGTON: All right, that's a good question, Ed. Thanks very much. You noted exactly correctly that the uptick we had in the second quarter did relate to some coring up of our Marcellus properties. That wasn't a planned item, but we saw the opportunity and took advantage of it. We don't anticipate being substantially different than where we set as a target, $26 billion. We're halfway through the year. We're about 52% spent, and that looks to be in the reasonable range.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay, thank you. And then maybe a question for George. There have been some high-profile cost overruns in Australia; we all know that. You're taking a modular approach to Gorgon, and I think you used the same modular approach on your SGI/SGP successful project in Kazakhstan. I mean, is that modular approach why you think Chevron is going to deliver Gorgon on budget, where others have failed? And perhaps when do you think you'll be able to, with confidence, say that you're going to hit that project on budget?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Ed, that's a great question. First, we did not use a modular approach in Tengiz on SGI/SGP. We are moving to a more modular approach for the Future Growth Project in the next Tengiz expansion. And it's related to just what we've seen in Gorgon and what we see to be happening in Wheatstone. It's a wise thing to move hours and use hours in multiple places, and the only way you can do that is go to modules.

So, we are planning modules -- significantly large modules on Gorgon. We will be using modular construction to, I think, a little bit lesser extent on Wheatstone, but we'll be still driving toward modules there. And Future Growth, we'll definitely move to modules as best we can, in recognition of transportation infrastructure. But great question.

ED WESTLAKE: And the second half of the question was really around with this modular approach, at some point, you'll see how productive the Australian workers are, in terms of being able to put these together. And you'll have some idea of where Gorgon CapEx will come in. When do you think that point will be reached?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, we've, so far, in the case of Gorgon, have about $25 billion in contracts in-hand. The ones that are related to outside of Australia, we have a very good handle on them. We think that, in itself, mitigates the total cost. I don't expect to really have a good feel for productivity in Australia for at least another 12 months. I think at that point in time, we'll have a good handle on the productivity situation.

We're trying to put, of course, everything in place to guarantee good productivity on Barrow Island. We're doing really quality housing and providing great opportunity for good food, doing all those things to make sure we have a good workforce that -- on-site, and minimize issues for them, both from a safety, like I say, and a living basis.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Let me take the opportunity to thank you for the trip to Kazakhstan, which was great. And I hope in due course you'll consider a trip to Gorgon. George, on that trip, we were chatting about California, and you said you'd go back to your people and ask them for -- I think you said the third or fourth time, if you were missing something there. Can you update me on your latest thoughts about California developments there, potential there, and so on? Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, we have went back. We're always looking at opportunities, particularly around where we have a big position. For those on the phone, we have about 250,000 acres in the Southern California area of San Joaquin. We do produce from the Monterey in Southern California. We produce about 45,000 barrels a day in the Monterey.

We are still doing some work, Paul, in that area. We have worked some of it in the upper part of the Monterey in the Diatomite. We hold a lot of acreage in that and we've seen success there. We've seen that in Lost Hills. We are looking at some of the deeper Monterey, and we'll probably have a test of that in one of the areas we presently hold. At this point in time, we have not changed our overall view of the Monterey relative to our other opportunities in the world.

PAUL SANKEY: Which is it's relatively less interesting than some of the other developments you can foresee, obviously?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We don't see it yet competing. We are going to do additional work there. We, typically, in all our areas where we have long-standing production, we're always looking for ways to increase the productivity of that resource, increase the recovery, and we see some cases of oil in place that we're going to test. Now, it's -- once again, it's got to compete down the road for capital against our other opportunities around the world.

PAUL SANKEY: Understood, George. And can you just be specific on why it's less attractive than other opportunities? And also mention if there's any permitting issues for you there?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, I'll answer the second one first. We've not gone far enough to have the permitting issues, so we don't have any permitting issues. At this point, we just don't see the volumetric production that delivers the barrels -- enough barrels at a rate to make it economically competitive. But we've got more work to do. We're going to do a test that will tell us a little bit more about one of these lower formation areas in the Monterey.

So, more to come on that. We'll -- I'm sure we'll have some feedback on that, additional feedback, even in the March time period of next year at our analyst meeting.

PAUL SANKEY: Interesting. Thanks. And then just a follow-up to finish off on the U.S. You've obviously highlighted the expansion in the Marcellus very briefly, if there's any sort of price around what you paid? Secondly, if you intend to continue adding acreage?

You've highlighted in the past that you are relatively underweight U.S. gas as an advantage. Are you changing that view? And thirdly, if you could briefly comment on whether or not you're interested in unconventional oil in other parts of the U.S., such as the Bakken and the Eagle Ford? And I'll leave it there. Thank you.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, a lot of good questions. I'm going to ask Jeanette to help me -- or Pat, if I don't answer them all. So I may get a little bit of prompting there.

We're trying to put together in the Marcellus a nice-sized portfolio, and we've done a couple of steps on that. I think we're very close to putting together what we want in the Marcellus. There will be additional additions, small additions there, where it makes sense synergistically, between one acreage we hold in these two, and is there something in between? So we'll do that, but I think we have pretty well put together our Marcellus position.

My goal is to be able to really lay out what all we have done in the Marcellus and give everyone a really good update in March next year. I think by that period of time, we will have all the pieces pretty well put into place. We'll have our integration well in-hand, both integrating Atlas and the Chief piece. So, I think at that point, we really will be able to give everyone a full overview of what we see, where we stand, how it all fits together. But I really don't feel comfortable in doing that until probably March. March will the right time for us.

PAUL SANKEY: Understood. Is there a price on the incremental 228,000 (multiple speakers)?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: At this point in time, I'm not going to share that. What we will do, what I am committed to do, is we'll provide you a lot more price information when we bring all the pieces together.

PAUL SANKEY: Thanks, George.

JEANETTE OURADA: And then the other question was unconventional oil?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Unconventional, from a technical point of view, I do like and I've always said I liked what we call light -- we call it light shale oil. We like it. I will tell you at this point in time, we've seen the pricing of the acreage to be, well, frankly, just to be high, and impacts the economic viability of buying it.

We have done lots of technical work looking for other opportunities around the world that are similar. We're always trying to take knowledge gained in one location and find similar opportunities around the world. I really don't have any I want to point to at this point, but we are doing work on there. And Paul, like everything else, it always gets back.

We don't just want barrels or MCF's; we want those barrels that deliver strong earnings, strong returns. And if it's inorganic and it's producing, we find it very difficult in most cases to go ante up that money. Our strategy continues to be looking for early entry, looking for exploration opportunities. We think the value, the major value we create is getting it early, using our expertise. And from the geotechnical side, from the reservoir engineering side and the project side, to create value; and then, of course, operate it well. That's -- we think that's the way we really create the value for the shareholder.

PAUL SANKEY: So you're telling me it's very unlikely you'll make a major acquisition?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: That's correct.

PAUL SANKEY: I appreciate your comments, George. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Another great quarter. I hope Congress heard your opening comments. Yes, I have a few questions. One on a bigger-look question. I know relative to peers, Chevron has a significant investment for future production growth that has not yet contributed to your earnings, as would be expected. But can you share with me maybe the amount of your current capital employed that is not yet generating income or impacting the numerator in your ROCE calculation?

PAT YARRINGTON: I'd say, Evan, a good place to be would be somewhere between 25% and 30% would be a good benchmark for you at this point in time.

EVAN CALIO: Okay. And that's clearly high -- over time, if you had a time sequence, that's clearly a higher percentage? Is that fair?

PAT YARRINGTON: Certainly, as we move into the 30% range, it is, but I would say, typically, if I look back over the last five to seven years or so, that 25% to 30% -- low 30% range is typically the bandwidth that we have operated within.

EVAN CALIO: Okay. Thank you. A second question for George and maybe more pointed than Paul's. I mean, clearly, excitement has been building on the Utica shale opportunity, and then something that's a bit of a focus this morning with Chesapeake's release and conference call. And I know and I believe Chevron has 600,000 acres that you've disclosed that has Utica oil shale exposure, but you didn't call that out on slide 17. Maybe you could discuss how you're thinking about activity there and play potential into 2012?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Okay. Well, let me first say we believe it's a little bit too soon to conclude on the potential of the Utica. We've got a good acreage position in the Utica from the Atlas acquisition. We are going to do what we do everywhere in the world -- we're going to evaluate that. And the only way we can evaluate it is we're going to have to drill some wells and test performance. So it's something for the future, but it's, like I say, too early at this point in time to, I think, to hype it.

EVAN CALIO: Is it a partial driver in your Atlas acquisition, which is largely perceived as a Marcellus gas acquisition?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: It was not a major driver in that. It was too unproven at that time to establish a lot of the value.

EVAN CALIO: Okay.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Okay?

EVAN CALIO: Sure. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: George, if I may take advantage of you being on the phone with a couple of questions, and then I have a follow-up for Pat, very quickly. Can you give us an update, just generally, as to how you see the latest permitting situation in the Gulf of Mexico? And just bolting on to maybe a general update as to when you would expect to really be able to ramp up your activity there? That's my first. I've got a couple of follow-ups, if I may.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Okay. I'll try to give you a little bit more than we gave in the comments. To start off, all three of our deepwater rigs are currently working. We're on Moccasin, which is a nice exploration well, and we're on Buckskin, and we're on Tahiti. Tahiti, we are about to get into the development drilling stage there. We've drilled a couple of injection wells, all of which was needed for our second phase development of Tahiti.

On the permits themselves -- so we've got permits for those, for drilling at those locations. Near-term drilling program will require approval for us of about 10 development and exploration plans and 15 drilling permits. So that's what we're in the process of pursuing. We have received the permit for Coronado, which is our next exploration well, and we've also received an approved revised exploration plan for Oceanographer as well as for our initial development drilling operations at Jack/St. Malo.

And we're continuing to progress approvals for Bigfoot development drilling. We've got a lot of applications to permit to drill have been submitted, so at this point in time, we seem to be able to move things in there through the permit process to allow us to progress our projects and our exploration plans.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks, George. When do you expect (multiple speakers) -- sorry, George.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: (multiple speakers) In recognition of that, I'll even give you a little -- we have two additional deepwater rigs expected to arrive later this year, the deepwater Discovery India and the Pacific Santa Ana. And these two rigs really are focused on drilling initial development wells for our major capital projects -- that's Jack/St. Malo and Bigfoot. And that will allow us to really start maybe a little bit of catch-up on what time we lost, because we lost over a year in time.

So we're trying to -- and it's hard -- you can't recapture time, but we're trying to put ourselves in a position to make sure those projects come on, and we have development wells to produce into them, as they move into the production stage.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks, George. Broadly, would you say things are getting -- easier is not the word I'm looking for, but less onerous, perhaps, in terms of the actual permits. Do you think BOEMRE is actually starting to move things too a little quicker? Any perspective would be appreciated.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think the biggest contributor to the improvement in getting permits is really, I think, people are now better understanding what is required. The requirements to get a permit, the technical requirements, what must be done to make progress to the point of getting the permit, is much better determined and understood. And that's big. Once you know what you've got to do, then you can attack it and you can deliver, once again, a document that meets the needs.

DOUG LEGGATE: Got it. Thank you. Jumping around the world too, just very quickly, to Liberia, can you give us an update as to -- just remind us what your working interest is there, when you would expect to really start to get the activity to pick up. And just a general kind of update of your expectations.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: My memory is working interest is an 80% level for us on three large blocks there. I'm going to ask somebody to double check that for me as I go on. We're very pleased with that. We see this as that Cretaceous trend that we've seen in West Africa. It's been very successful in Ghana. We're moving forward with our first well to be drilled to be spudded. And my expectations, it will be in the fourth quarter, but we are on schedule for that.

We've lined up a rig. So we're in, I think, good stead to drill the first well or start drilling the first well this year; pleased with that. We see, from a geological point of view, we see a large number of prospects. But once again, remember this is exploration. It's a long ways from any well that's in close proximity where we'll be drilling. So a significant distance, but we -- but it looks good at this point from the seismic point. So we'll know a lot more -- we'll know a lot more after we drill the first well.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks, George. Last one from me is, I guess a follow-up to Paul's question in California -- fairly modest, I guess, overall position in the context of Chevron's scale. But my recollection was that you had sold a lot of your deep rights about 10 years ago to Occidental. Can you confirm if that was the case? And how much running do you actually have in the deeper Santos Monterey area?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: In the Santos area, we do not have a lot of acreage. I don't have that number right in front of me, but that is not where our position is. We'll have to get that as a follow-up either, I guess, next quarter or between our IR folks. I don't have that number right with me. But we are not positioned large there.

DOUG LEGGATE: Got it.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I just got some help on that. In Liberia, we're 70%. We have a 70% working interest -- just to correct that.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks for the clarification. My very quick follow-up is for Pat. Your net cash position, your share buybacks are still very modest. Just some context as to why you're not yet choosing to take it a little more aggressive? And I'll leave it at that. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. Yes, Doug, our belief here is -- and I think we said this when we reinstated the share repurchase program -- we deliberately put flexibility on it in terms of time and in terms of dollars. And we want to be able to sustain the share repurchase program over a long period of time, and be able to live through any sort of uncertainties.

So our approach is perhaps a little bit more modest than you might think, but our objective there is to be able to have something that we can sustain over time. I think you would agree with us here that there's a fair amount of uncertainty out there. Certainly, what we saw in terms of the U.S. GDP this morning, China GDP has been dampening a little bit, still very strong but dampening a little bit. We've clearly got uncertainty in terms of the U.S. policy environment.

And all we are trying to acknowledge is that there can be -- while we're favorably inclined about prices over the medium-term and long-term, there can be excursions south of that for short periods of time. And we just want to be able to, once we go into the share repurchase program, keep it on track and sustained. So that really is our philosophy. (multiple speakers)

DOUG LEGGATE: (multiple speakers) Thank you -- thanks very much.

JEANETTE OURADA: (multiple speakers) Okay, let's go to the next caller in the queue.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: George, I had a question about the margin, Upstream margin, and strong capture rate you're getting there. I know that part of the contribution to your move into the number one position was from a lot of the new projects that have been brought online over the last couple of years. So my question is, are you expecting to move past cost recovery mode in any of these projects that are in PSC's, that maybe would ratchet down the margin capture? Or then, conversely, would you expect the margin capture to actually continue moving forward?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Jason, it's a good question. It's got an awful lot of moving parts. Let me start there.

Yes, we are moving on some cases on the PSC's to the point where we have much of the capture of the initial investments. It's complicated by recognizing that, in many cases, as we move to that point, we also move into later phases -- like in Agbami 2, we move into a second phase of development, which continues some of that capture.

So you have those. And recognize we also have new projects coming on. An example, actually in the same area of the world, Usan, will come on next year in deepwater Nigeria. So we've got another one that way. So these ends and outs, I would tell you that the quality of the new assets coming on, they are very strong in their earnings power. They have very strong earnings per barrel.

What I can't tell you is I really don't have a -- it's hard for me to get a view of my competitors and what's happening in their portfolio. I wish I could get a better handle on that myself, which I'm sure all of -- matter of fact, maybe that's a question, as I see some of you, you'll help me on that. Thanks for the question.

JASON GAMMEL: Well, I'll keep you penciled in at number one then. Maybe if I could shift to the exploration program in Australia. Unlike some of the other operators in the area, you've really kind of kept the drill bit in front of the marketing activity. I know that your view has been that you have more than enough gas for the five trains that are either sanctioned at Gorgon or about to be sanctioned at Wheatstone.

If you think about the resource base, what do you actually think you could underpin now, in terms of numbers of trains at 5 million tons per annum? And in a blue sky case, do you think you'd be able to do a train a year for 10 years?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Oh, let me start -- we've got three trains at Gorgon, to get everybody oriented. We've got three trains at Gorgon that are a little over 15 million tons. We have almost 9 million tons, 8.9 million tons in the two trains at Wheatstone. In the case of Gorgon, my confidence of having resource for the fourth train is high. We still, I think -- and we are drilling lots of exploration wells, I think we've got to continue that to have the confidence in additional trains.

Barrow Island, we will not be able to put anything on beyond five trains. And five trains is, like I say, that's all is going to fit there. We have a lot more space in the case of the Ashburton North site for Wheatstone. It can probably handle six trains. Confidence level is good in the two trains that we're moving close to FID. And we have discoveries in the 205 block there, and that's the Clio-1/2/3 discoveries and Acme. And now we're doing a Acme follow-up. So we're trying to prove up a quantity of gas there that would have us a lot of confidence in a third train.

Remember the other one unique thing that we're trying to do, and I think are doing -- and you can see it through our participation in the first two trains, with Apache / Kufpec -- we're trying to build a hub there that will allow other third parties to bring in gas, and to do it in an economical manner. So we're always trying to provide that opportunity set also. And I think that gives us confidence that that combination of our drilling, plus the more open access, will allow for additional trains to be built at Wheatstone -- at the Wheatstone -- the Onslow site.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, thanks, George. I appreciate it.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Okay.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I have two questions for George and one really quick follow-up for Pat. George, I suppose that when you initially invested in Atlas Energy as partly, is you see that's a good resource base. Partly maybe is that using it as a beachhead to learn about the shale gas technology and how to operate it. But the shale gas and the shale oil, that they are quite different from one play to another.

So do you think that the position there that already allowed you to have sufficient learning experience to fully understand and expand that knowledge base to the rest of your global portfolio, or that you may need a beachhead in other play?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Okay, let me -- having access to Atlas for us is very important. It is the process of actually doing makes a lot of difference. We see challenges in the way monies are spent presently in the unconventional gas, one that our -- the first one is, we don't believe it takes as many frac stages -- you don't have to frac as much of that formation, if you truly understand the sweeter spots, if you will, of that formation.

So the only way I think we can prove that and really grow that expertise, and become better and more economical doing it, is by doing it. So we're trying to do that, of course. And then what we want to do is to be able to apply that technology, that technical ability to other places in the world. We see that as particularly important for us as we move into Eastern Europe, because we don't see the infrastructure capability by service providers to be nearly as available as what we see in the U.S. So that's how we tie the two of those together. So we want to get technically a whole lot smarter, and we want to use what we learned there and be able to apply it around the world.

PAUL CHENG: Sure, that I fully understand, but George, my question is that, given that each formation is somewhat different from what we understand, so having a substantial position in Marcellus, is that what you believe already gives you sufficient of the learning curve? Or that you need exposure to other areas? That's my question.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, I think the case of Marcellus, the Marcellus was the quality of the Marcellus that took us there and the proximity to market. We had the opportunity on scale, relatively early entry, quality, all of that took us there at this point in time.

Europe is, once again, a combination of that with a lot less geotechnical information being known. We've got to drill some wells. We've done G&G. We'll be drilling our first well -- our first well is in Poland this year. And we'll start answering the questions, drill the well, get more technical information. We'll eventually have to be fracking wells. We've got to go through that, Paul, and that's what's going to answer the question. We wanted to get scale in Europe initially where, if it works, you've got the scale to make a really nice business. And remember, the entry cost in Europe was much different than what the bets are in the United States.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. All right. And the second quick one is that for George is Bulgaria. I presume that you just acquired the acreage, so you're going to do seismic this year and we should not expect a first well until late 2012?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Yes, I don't expect -- I'm not even sure we're going to get the seismic started this year. I really am looking more at seismic next year. And this is so recent, I think it's a little early to even talk about when the first well. But we'll have more on that in the oncoming quarters.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. And then a quick one for Pat. In the past, I think from an accounting standpoint, Chevron, the Gulf of Mexico oil realization is based on a one-month lag. I just want to -- curious if that's still the case here?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. I mean, I think if I understood that correctly, you're asking about the pricing lag --

PAUL CHENG: That's correct.

PAT YARRINGTON: -- out of Mexico? Gulf of Mexico?

PAUL CHENG: That's correct.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, that's correct. So you have (multiple speakers) [lag].

PAUL CHENG: (multiple speakers) Sort of give me a feel on the one-month lag?

PAT YARRINGTON: (multiple speakers) Yes.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Kate Minyard, JPMorgan.

KATE MINYARD, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just a quick question on your buyback program. I realized you talked a little bit about it earlier. But when you're looking at buybacks versus dividends, in that redeployment of excess cash or that return to shareholders, it looks like your average diluted share counts haven't really declined over the last several quarters, despite the buyback program. So I was curious as to what factors you're weighing, given that you want the buyback program to be sustainable as well, as you look at distributing that cash through buy-backs versus through dividends.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, that's a good question, Kate. You're right, there hasn't been as much of a reduction in the outstanding shares, and that's simply been a function of the exercise of some stock options by annuitants in their 10-year window. And we've taken a look at that, and it's been obviously driven by how well our share price has done, particularly in the first quarter and second quarter here.

When we peg our share repurchase program, we don't really have knowledge to take that other effect into account. So when we talk about our share repurchase program, we really are talking about the amount that we have control over. And therefore, the $1 billion, we're now upping it to $1.25 billion in the quarter here.

And in terms of the dividend play versus the share repurchase play, I think I've been on record many times now in talking about our financial priorities. And the first one really is to sustain and grow the dividend. And we did show a dividend increase here in the second quarter of 8%. So that's the primary distribution to shareholders that we pursue. Share repurchases are a much more discretionary piece, and we peg that to what we consider the short-term, medium-term, and longer-term outlook of cash generation -- surplus cash generation for the Company.

KATE MINYARD: Okay, sure. Thanks very much. And then if I could just quickly ask on the PNZ, it looks like production's kind of come down over the last, say, two, two-and-one-half years. I was just curious as to whether that's entitlement-related? Or if it's declined and then whether the outlook would be that we'd look for an increase, as the flooding program kind of gets more underway?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: The PZ is -- the concession there is a tax and royalty. So it's not a PSC, so it's not -- there's no effect, price effect there. And it has declined. Existing fields are on a decline -- not a lot, but a little bit of decline.

The upside, the future is really about the steam flood where we see opportunities that could be on a gross basis. We could end up with a production gain there on new production up to 500,000 barrels a day. There's a big opportunity there. We have just -- for those maybe a little bit of information -- we just re-completed into the second Eocene -- or the first Eocene B Zone recently, and should start our steam flood test there on that second zone in the first Eocene.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: I've got three questions, one for Pat and a couple for George. Pat, just looking at your slides on the Downstream, for international, you talk about this timing effect, which I assume is the inventory effect of a positive 155. Just curious as to why there wasn't a similar one for U.S. Downstream, given the fact that oil price has increased so much, and therefore, there must have been some gains in your Downstream inventory.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. Actually, Iain, that large bar that you see there on international earnings called timing effects, this time is largely a variance between different positions and open paper between the quarters, mark-to-market effects between the quarters. It's not really as inventory-driven as it is mark-to-market-driven.

IAIN REID: Okay. Is it possible to say then what the overall inventory effect was in the Downstream, just kind of roughly, if you don't have an exact number?

PAT YARRINGTON: No. I mean I think that it's not a place we want to go. We don't have a number that's handy like that and I'd hate to speculate.

IAIN REID: Okay. All right. George, two for you-- can I come back on Ed's question about costs in Australia? I understand you've got a fair amount of Gorgon contracted, so that probably gives you a reasonable amount of comfort in terms of the cost there. But I'm just wondering about Wheatstone.

Coming out to FID, and I presume you've tested the market for similar equipment, turbines, the gas coolers, et cetera. I'm just wondering what you're seeing in terms of cost differential between those two projects? Since, obviously, you're going to use some pretty similar equipment and obviously, probably pretty much the same labor force.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: You're absolutely right, Iain, that we do have good cost test data. Matter of fact, we're in-hand, in many cases, with contracts as we approach FID that we will be able to issue and execute. So we have a pretty good handle on that. That's very typical of our projects when we get to FID.

We really have an awful lot of both the purchased equipment and many contracts where we have a pricing -- we have -- beyond a pricing view, we have a contract that we can execute. We have boiled those into our plans for the FID and our request for funds. I can't give you a number at this point in time until we get post-FID. We'll be able to give some of that information. Our expectation is that in the fourth quarter, that we will be at FID. So that probably sets us up good timing to do that in the March analyst meeting.

IAIN REID: But it is fair to say I presume you're seeing some reasonable inflation coming through from the awards you did on Gorgon a couple of years ago, to what you're seeing in Wheatstone now? Without giving a number.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I would just tell you, we feel we have a very good handle on the pricing. We still believe we are getting some good pricing, due to the way we have contracted elements of the project. I really can't go any further than that at this time.

IAIN REID: No, sorry, I'm not trying to extract anything from you you shouldn't give --

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I know (multiple speakers) --

JEANETTE OURADA: (multiple speakers) Sure, you are.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: You said you have one last one?

IAIN REID: Yes, I do, I do. It's about Tengiz -- can I thank you all again, all of you, including, obviously, Investor Relations, for a great trip over there, echoing what Paul said. I've just got a question about the Future Growth Project. I think when we were over there, you were talking about being in a position to launch FEED. I'm just -- and the government was kind of sitting on it for some reason. I'm just kind of wondering where you are now and whether you've managed to move that one forward at all? And what that means in terms of the timing of the project?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think we are moving forward on it. I still believe that we're on schedule to -- for at least a fourth quarter FEED appropriation to be approved. I think most of our issues that we've covered, we've covered, and I'm sure hopeful that we're going to make that target date. So -- but we aren't there yet, I will tell you that. So we're making progress but we're not there yet.

IAIN REID: All right, George. Well, thanks a lot. Have a great weekend.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Thank you very much.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, at this point, I'd like to wrap it up. I'd like to say that I appreciate everyone's participation on the call today and everyone's interest in Chevron. I especially want to thank the analysts who asked some very good questions. I'm sure they helped everybody's understanding of the Company. So, thank you very much, everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | fpoly : French Polynesia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | pacisz : Pacific Islands
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110812e77t009ey
  


 HD
 Q1  2011  Chevron  Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,238 words
   PD
29 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and -- good morning. My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

   TD
I will now turn the conference over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call and webcast.

On the call with me today are Gary Luquette, President of our North American Exploration & Production Company. I've asked Gary to join me on the call this morning to give you an update on our recent Atlas acquisition and Gulf of Mexico activity.

Chevron, and Gary specifically, have taken a leadership role in addressing the Administration's concerns regarding drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. Gary serves as Chair of the governing body leading the joint industry Task forces that have been working to improve prevention, intervention, and spill response capabilities with the goal of getting the industry back to work.

Also on the call is Jeanette Ourada, General Manager of Investor Relations.

Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2011. We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statements shown here on slide two.

Slide three provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's first quarter earnings were $6.2 billion, or $3.09 per diluted share. Comparing the first quarter 2011 to the same quarter a year earlier, our earnings were up 36%. Upstream benefited from higher crude prices and downstream benefited from improved margins.

Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was over 18%. Our debt ratio at the end of March was 9.5%. In the first quarter, we repurchased 750 million of our shares. In the second quarter, we are increasing our repurchase rate to $1 billion.

Finally, we announced Wednesday that Chevron's Board of Directors approved a $0.06 per share, or 8.3% increase, in the common stock quarterly dividend. This is our 24th consecutive year of higher dividend payouts.

Now on slide four. Cash generated from operations was nearly $10 billion during the first quarter. This is a record for the Company. Our cash from operations provided excellent support for our capital program, the Atlas acquisition, including associated debt retirement, our dividend payments, and our share buyback program.

At quarter-end, our cash balances totaled nearly $17 billion. This put us in a net cash position of $5.3 billion.

We see the 8% dividend increase and a simultaneous boost in our share repurchase rate as meaningful moves. Combined, we believe they send strong signals about our ability to both generate and to deliver tangible cash distribution rewards to our shareholders.

Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jeanette?

JEANETTE OURADA, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat.

Turning to slide five, I'll compare results of the first quarter 2011 with the fourth quarter 2010. As a reminder, our earnings release compares first quarter 2011 with the same quarter a year ago.

First quarter earnings were $916 million higher than the fourth quarter. Starting on the left side of the chart, upstream earnings were up $1.1 billion, driven by higher crude oil realizations. Downstream results were lower by $120 million.

Stronger refining and chemical margins were more than offset by unfavorable timing impacts in this quarter and the absence of fourth quarter gains on asset sales. The variance in the other bar reflects an unfavorable swing in corporate tax items.

On slide six, our U.S. upstream earnings for the first quarter were $519 million higher than the fourth quarter's results. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $390 million.

U.S. crude realizations were up 17% between consecutive quarters, higher than the 11% increase in the average spot price of West Texas Intermediate. Our U.S. crude realizations are primarily tied to Mars, Louisiana Light Sweet, and San Joaquin Valley Heavy Crudes, which all traded at premiums to WTI during the first quarter.

Natural gas realizations improved by 11%, in line with Henry Hub spot prices.

Lower sales volumes decreased earnings by $40 million between periods, due to two fewer days in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter. Lower operating expenses benefited earnings by $40 million between periods, primarily due to lower costs related to timing of maintenance activities. The other bar is comprised of a number of unrelated items, including the absence of unfavorable year-end LIFO inventory drawdowns and lower exploration and abandonment expenses.

Turning to slide seven, international upstream earnings were up $611 million compared with the fourth quarter. Higher oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $910 million. Average liquids realizations increased 20%, in line with the increase in average Brent spot prices.

Natural gas realizations rose 5% between quarters.

Lower liftings, primarily in Angola, Australia, and Kazakhstan, decreased earnings by $255 million. This is directionally aligned with two fewer days in the quarter. Lower exploration expense benefited earnings by $140 million due to lower well write-offs and lower data acquisition costs.

Moving to the next bar, an unfavorable change in foreign currency effect impacted earnings by $65 million. The first quarter had a loss of about $115 million, compared to a loss of about $50 million in the fourth quarter. These foreign exchange effects have no direct impact on cash. They are primarily balance sheet translation effects.

The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including higher withholding taxes on affiliate dividend distributions, partly offset by lower depreciation expense.

Turning to slide eight, during our March security analyst meeting, we discussed our plan to move certain major capital projects that have reached peak production into our base business. The map shows the specific projects being re-categorized. The two bars on the graphs show fourth quarter production with both the original split between base business and MCPs and the new categorization. The impact was a shift of 482,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.

Slide nine summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Production decreased 26,000 barrels per day in the first quarter compared with the fourth quarter of 2010. Higher prices reduced volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts during the first quarter, decreasing production about 22,000 barrels per day.

In the past, we have used the change in WTI to calculate a PSC price effect. Given the recent divergence in the WTI-Brent spread, going forward we will use the change in Brent to calculate a price effect because it is more closely tied to our international realizations. The average Brent price increased $19 per barrel between quarters, which resulted in about a 1,200-barrel per day volume reduction for each $1 increase in Brent.

Recall that over a range of prices, PSC effects are not linear. As prices rise, the PSC production impact decreases.

Weather conditions in onshore U.S., Australia, and the U.K. lowered production 15,000 barrels per day between quarters. Base business production increased 7,000 barrels per day, largely driven by an increase in cost recovery barrels in various locations, offset by normal field declines. This bar also includes a small positive impact from the addition of six weeks of Atlas production.

Contributions from major capital projects increased First quarter production by 4,000 barrels per day, primarily driven by continued ramp-up at Perdido and Frade.

We reaffirm our full-year production outlook of 2.79 million barrels per day. The outlook assumes $79 per barrel, the same average price as 2010, and does not assume OPEC curtailments, material security, or market impacts. We'll provide another update on the second-quarter earnings call.

Turning to slide 10, U.S. downstream earnings fell $33 million in the first quarter. Indicator margins improved earnings by $170 million, driven by higher refining margins for both the Gulf Coast and West Coast. Both areas had stronger demand, especially for distillates. This stronger demand occurred simultaneously with normal planned refinery maintenance. Stocks were depleted and margins widened as a consequence of these two divergent forces.

The next bar shows a $380 million negative earnings variance, primarily reflecting the absence of a fourth quarter gain on the sale of our interest in the Colonial Pipeline Company.

Chemical earnings improved by $90 million, mainly due to higher margins for olefins and aromatics. The other bar includes positive impacts from lower turnaround activity in the first quarter and a favorable pipeline rate settlement.

On slide 11, international downstream earnings were also lower, falling $87 million from fourth quarter's results. Margins reduced earnings by $25 million. Stronger refining margins in Asia and Canada were more than offset by supply mix effects in Asia and lower European refining margins.

Timing effects represented a $230 million negative earnings variance between quarters, reflecting a swing from a positive $35 million in the fourth quarter to a negative $195 million in the first quarter. The primary drivers were unfavorable inventory effects, mostly in Asia, during a period of rapidly rising prices and the absence of fourth quarter's favorable year-end LIFO effects.

Lower operating expenses across multiple categories benefited earnings by $35 million. The other bar includes a number of unrelated items, including small asset sales, improved shipping results, and a favorable tax variance, partly offset by lower volumes.

Slide 12 covers all other. First quarter net charges were $388 million, compared to a net $294 million charge in the fourth quarter. The $94 million increase between quarters is primarily due to an unfavorable variance in corporate tax items. We believe our quarterly guidance range of $250 million to $350 million for net charges in the all other segment is still appropriate, going forward.

Now I'd like to turn it over to Gary for an update on North America.

GARY LUQUETTE, PRESIDENT NORTH AMERICA EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Jeanette, and good morning. It's good to be here with you.

I'd like to give you a brief overview of my area of responsibility, Chevron's North America upstream operations, and then discuss recent progress in the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlas acquisition.

Turning to slide 14, North America has a tremendous natural resource base, and they are close to fully developed infrastructures serving large markets, making it an attractive place to do business. We operate a solid mix of base business assets and major capital projects. Our portfolio includes both conventional oil and natural gas, and unconventional energy sources such as oil sands, coal bed methane, and shale gas, and we continue to grow our portfolio.

Our U.S. operations are anchored by assets in the Gulf of Mexico, California, Texas, and the Rocky Mountains. In Canada, our activities reach throughout Atlantic Canada, the Arctic, and the Western oil sands. In total, our North American operations account for about one-fourth of Chevron's production.

During the rest of our time together this morning, I want to focus on the Gulf of Mexico and our recent Atlas acquisition. Let's start with the Gulf of Mexico.

Slide 15. With more than 60 years of experience operating in the Gulf, we've proven that we can explore for and produce oil and gas both safely and in an environmentally sound manner. We've produced 9 billion barrels of oil equivalent as we have progressed development from the shelf into the deepwater. We maintain a significant presence throughout the Gulf of Mexico. We are a leading leaseholder across both the shelf and the deepwater. In 2010, we averaged 260,000 barrels a day of oil equivalent, making us one of the largest producers in the region.

On slide 16, our Gulf of Mexico portfolio has a wide variety of assets and projects. These include offshore platforms in shallow and deepwater, onshore operations, gas plants, water floods, and subsea wells. We drill in deep and shallow water and operate in high-pressure, high-temperature environments. We have added acreage through recent lease sales, which allow us to pursue promising ultradeep gas opportunities in the shallow waters of the shelf.

Despite the challenging regulatory environment, Chevron remains very bullish on the Gulf of Mexico. Let me tell you about some recent developments.

Turning to slide 17, in 2010 our plans were to drill four exploration impact wells -- Moccasin, Coronado, Oceanographer, and the Buckskin appraisal. These wells were delayed by the drilling moratorium. We are ready to get back to work, and these wells are our top priority. We will be able to do so once the new permit requirements are fully understood, and permit applications are revised and submitted. We'll also need for the regulators to establish an efficient method for reviewing and approving what is expected to be a backlog of permit applications.

In late March, we received the permit for our Moccasin exploration prospect. This was the first such exploration permit granted to any operator after the moratorium was lifted. The rig arrived on-site two days after receipt of the permit and will soon be drilling.

The Buckskin permit application was submitted on April 18. We're expecting an approval in the next week or two. We have also received a permit for our second water injection well at the Tahiti II project, and drilling is underway.

Chevron currently has three deepwater drill ships in the Gulf. Two have returned to work and the third is awaiting a permit for our Buckskin appraisal well.

The good news is that we see activity slowly beginning to ramp up. But it's still too early to know what the new normal or pace of permitting and overall activity levels will be. We're hopeful the Administration shares our goal of expedited permitting now that we've established higher performance standards so we can move forward in developing our domestic energy supplies.

Our near-term deepwater drilling program will require the approval of approximately 10 development and exploration plans and approximately 15 drilling permit applications for both development and exploration wells. These are in various stages of preparation for submittal.

We plan to begin drilling development wells at Jack/St. Malo in the second half of this year. This was always the plan, and to date, start-up remains on track. Should permitting delays persist further into the year, the number of wells available at start-up could be impacted, but we remain committed to previously communicated first oil dates.

I'd now like to provide an update on Atlas. Turning to slide 18, we're very pleased with the Atlas acquisition, which closed in mid-February. These assets are in one of the sweet spots in the Marcellus shale, one of the key shale gas plays in North America.

With the drilling carry provided by our Marcellus joint venture partner, Chevron's near-term investment is limited. Over the next several years, the joint venture partner will fund 75% of our drilling costs, up to a total of $1.4 billion.

Equally important, the acquisition has provided us with a highly skilled workforce with strong operating experience and established land management capabilities. There are strong organizational synergies with Chevron's existing technical expertise and our global experience with large-scale developments.

We have created a new business unit to manage our acquired assets. We are making good progress on integration and expect transition activities will continue throughout the year. Early activities are focused on capturing operational synergies on capital project management and execution, and smoothly integrating our financial and IT systems.

We have a very active year planned. There are currently nine rigs operating in the Marcellus, and we expect to drill a total of 70 wells this year. We expect 2011 production from both the Marcellus and Antrim shales to average about 115 million cubic feet of gas per day.

Our pace is measured. We are optimizing our development well programs to lower our costs, improve well performance, and to shrink the time from well completion to hook-up and production.

This is a long-term play for us. We're in a great position as we ramp up for a multi-year drilling program. It's a great marriage between Atlas's commitment to the resource and Chevron's strong subsurface expertise and capital project discipline. Admittedly, it's very early, but all signs are positive, and we expect to capture the value we identified in our initial evaluation.

Finally, the state of Pennsylvania has asked all Marcellus operators to cease delivering produced water associated with the shale gas extraction to publicly owned water treatment facilities by May 19. It was always Atlas and Chevron's plans to discontinue disposal of surplus produced water into these facilities by the end of the year 2011. With this recent request, we will accelerate our plan and comply with the May 19 date.

With that, I'll now turn it back over to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thanks, Gary.

So now on slide 19, I'd like to wrap up with a few comments on Chevron's strategic progress during the first quarter of the year. We've stayed the course with strong safety performance after achieving our safest year ever in 2010.

In the downstream, we continued to progress our portfolio rationalization efforts, announcing the sale of the Pembroke refinery and associated marketing assets in the UK and Ireland. We completed the sale of our downstream businesses in the eastern Caribbean and in certain countries in Africa. We've also announced an agreement to sell our downstream businesses in Spain.

Additionally in downstream, we reached a final investment decision on the construction of a $1.4 billion lubricants manufacturing facility that will be located at our Pascagoula, Mississippi, refinery. This project leverages a strong refinery and proprietary Chevron technology to meet the growing demand for higher margin premium lubricants.

We had a number of accomplishments in the upstream. As Gary discussed, we completed the Atlas transaction. We were awarded 1.5 million acres in Romania, further bolstering our global shale gas portfolio. We continued our exploration success in western Australia with the Orthrus-2 natural gas discovery and we announced two new oil discoveries in the Moho-Bilondo area offshore Republic of Congo.

In addition, we signed a sales and purchase agreement with Kyushu Electric for the delivery of LNG from the Gorgon project.

I'll close by mentioning that our upstream operations earned just under $25.00 per barrel for the quarter. Based on preliminary competitor results announced to date, we outpaced our nearest competitor by nearly $5.00. We've led our peer group on this metric now for seven consecutive quarters.

We're definitely off to a great start in the first quarter of the year, both financially and operationally. Now that concludes our prepared remarks. We welcome your questions at this point, so, Sean, please open the lines.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Doug Terreson, ISI Group.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: In international downstream, and specifically the unfavorable variances in that area, I wanted to see if you would elaborate a little bit further on the supply mix effects that I think Jeanette attributed to Asia in the period. That is, what were they, what products did they involve, et cetera. Just some color, if you could.

JEANETTE OURADA: It's really across multiple products -- multiple different products. What really happened, it's -- there was very rapidly increasing prices in the quarter, so at the end of the quarter as we revalued our inventories, you see the big negative effect there. Of that bar, $170 million is related to inventories. So, that is the key driver of that bar.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. And also on E&P, and specifically on global natural gas, there seems to be progress on Block A in Cambodia and even more on Block B in Vietnam. So I wanted to see if we could get an update on those projects, and also on Venezuelan gas, that is if there's anything to update on Venezuelan gas?

JEANETTE OURADA: Let me start with Vietnam. So, to Vietnam, we commenced front-end engineering and design in the first quarter of 2010 and we do expect an FID decision later this year, so that project is moving forward.

Cambodia -- we're still assessing the Cambodia opportunity, and we haven't laid out any near-term milestone for Cambodia. I'm sorry, your last question?

DOUG TERRESON: Yes, Venezuelan gas. Is there anything new to report there?

PAT YARRINGTON: No.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Gary, two questions. One in Atlas, what's the growth rate you guys are targeting or expecting for the next two to three years, given you have your partner carry your costs, and what kind of expected return that you had in mind on that?

The second question is that you do have some reasonable land position in the Permian basin. Is there any -- what kind of opportunity do you have in terms of the unconventional shale oil in your land position?

Also that you guys have -- some of your competitors start to be more aggressive trying to get into -- early into the new shale oil pay, either both in Canada or as well as in the U.S.. But it does not seem like Chevron is now more -- is as aggressive on what that may be, making as much noise as some of your competitors. I'm wondering if there's any insight that you can share here.

GARY LUQUETTE: Ok, thanks for the questions, Paul. There's a lot there, so let me see if I can unpack these one at a time, starting with Atlas.

It's way too early for us to forecast growth rates. We are just a couple of months now into taking ownership of those assets. As I mentioned in my remarks, our focus early on is going to be in trying to build a very efficient execution process that's going to allow us to start earning acreage. And so, we'll have to let that unfold a little bit longer before we can start pinpointing the specific growth objectives for you.

With respect to the Permian basin, we are in a great position there. In fact, just a few weeks ago, we celebrated our 5 billion barrel production milestone from the Permian basin with Chevron and Chevron legacy companies operating out there, and we have a tremendous amount of opportunities left.

So we're investing quite aggressively not just in the conventional sorts of plays, but also we're looking at some tight oil. Now this would not be considered shale oil, but certainly ultra-tight oil that we feel will represent a nice opportunity for us to continue to add volume in the Permian basin.

And I think your third question dealt with kind of our views towards Canada and some of the unconventionals. (Multiple speakers)

PAUL CHENG: Not just Canada, but also U.S. also, Gary.

GARY LUQUETTE: That's good that you made that clarification because I think, Paul, we typically look across North America with the same sort of scrutiny. We look through the same lenses and we are watching what is unfolding. We're evaluating opportunities as they come along.

Many of these opportunities that present themselves are quite pricey because there were independents that got involved very early on in some of the land acquisition. So, we're going to continue to look and evaluate opportunities, but there is nothing in particular that I can report on.

PAUL CHENG: Gary, are you guys looking at more on the already identified existing play, or that trying to look and venture into some untested play which the entry costs are much lower?

GARY LUQUETTE: Well, it's a combination, Paul. So, as we do our regional analysis to try to understand the geology and the producing mechanisms, we're looking across the board. Some of those lead us very early into possible entry positions, early entry positions. And others, people have already acquired the land, and we're continuing to look at ways that Chevron can create value in those plays.

PAUL CHENG: Just a final one, a short one. Pat or Jeanette, can you tell us that at the end of the first quarter from an inventory standpoint, are you still under-lifted, over-lifted, or neutral? Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: We're slightly under-lifted. Not too dissimilar from fourth quarter.

PAUL CHENG: Can you remind us that how much (multiple speakers) you're still under-lifted?

JEANETTE OURADA: About 1%, Paul.

OPERATOR: Edward Westlake, Credit Suisse.

EDWARD WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: A question just following on to Gary from the previous question on the Permian. You've talked about some exciting opportunities in the nonconventional and the conventional. Can you just talk about what sort of general -- will those opportunities be able to offset decline? Will you be up to grow the Permian or maintain it? And the same question with regards to your Californian oil position. Thank you.

GARY LUQUETTE: Thanks, Ed. As you are aware, those two positions, the Permian and our heavy oil holdings in California, are very, very mature assets. Many of these fields, certainly in California, are 100 years old, and in Permian, we're talking about north of 50 years old.

So, I would certainly look at it as a win for Chevron if we can hold our production levels that we currently have, or at least arrest some of the decline that you see in the normal field declines, so I think our objective would be to try to replace declining production with some of these new opportunities and try to hold what we have, which are quite sizable. We're nearly 200,000 barrels a day in California and over 70,000 barrels a day in the Permian basin, and we want to try to hold that, if possible.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Then a follow-on question on the Gulf. The ultradeep gas in the shallow waters, when do you think you will test those?

GARY LUQUETTE: Actually, that play is being tested now. There are some smaller players that -- size companies that have been involved in this for some time and have pretty much proven that the gas is there, and we made a move here a year ago and acquired some additional acreage, and this is on top of acreage that we already hold by production, by producing, through some of the shallower zones.

So, we actually are participating in an exploration well at present with a third party, and we hope to get another exploration well in in the 2011 campaign.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: That was a good effort. Thank you. Good morning, everybody. I am going to try a couple, also. Pat, if I could try a couple for you, and then one for Gary, to take advantage of him being here.

The quick ones from me, you've redefined the base, I guess, as you explained in your prepared remarks. What does that do to actually change the underlying decline rate? Is there any change there in your guidance? And if I may just bolt on my other one, the exploration charges were quite light in the quarter. Is that just a seasonal issue, because it was light Q1 last year also, or did it reflect less dry hole charges or lower overall expenditure? And then, I've got a follow-up for Gary, please.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay. Doug, thanks. With regard to your first question on the decline rate, we're basically in the 3% to 4% range.

There is no change in the guidance that we have given out previously. We just wanted to be very clear about the change in the base. We mentioned it in the March meeting. We just wanted to be very clear this time through. And with regard to the second question?

JEANETTE OURADA: So on exploration, it was lower for both reasons that you mentioned, Doug. There were lower well write-offs in the first quarter and also lower data acquisition costs.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay, but no real change in the overall trend?

JEANETTE OURADA: No.

PAT YARRINGTON: I mean, it can be very lumpy, as you know, just given the timing of well write-offs. That really is normally the rationale behind any quarter-to-quarter variance.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay, thank you. Gary, I appreciate you being on the call this morning. It's really more of a big-picture question. There's been a lot of talk about changes to drilling subsidies and so-called tax benefits for the industry. I just wondered if you could give us your take on the current debate, what Chevron's potential exposure would be? I'm guessing it's not significant. And just the overall perspective that Chevron brings to this, and if you are, in fact, having any discussions with the government over their consultations with industry. That would be great. Thank you.

GARY LUQUETTE: Thank you, Doug. To my knowledge, we're not having any specific discussions with the government right now with respect to specifics sorts of incentives that have been in place.

We've taken a general position that certainly when you look at the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, deepwater royalty relief was a huge success for the government, for industry, and for the American people. It accomplished what it set out to do, which was to stimulate a marginal play, get activity in there, get proof of concept going, get investment going, and eventually get production that drives tax and royalty revenue to the government. So it's been a huge success.

So we've tried to take that message and tried to communicate that to everyone that will listen in the Administration that incentives do work, and when it can spur investment, then good things can happen and follow on. But that's just kind of a general position. I don't know if that satisfies what you were looking for or whether you'd like something else.

DOUG LEGGATE: I'm just curious. I'm not expecting any numbers. But just as an order of materiality, if drilling subsidies, intangible drilling costs, and so on were revoked, if you like, you don't, I imagine, have a significant onshore position that would meaningfully impact you? I'm just looking for some confirmation if it would be material or if it would be less material. Would it change your investment strategy? Would it alter your investment in the base decline onshore U.S.? Those kind of issues are really what I'm trying to get to.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. And I think, Doug, we actually take issue with even using the word subsidy in some of the dialogue that the Administration has had because this really is just deductions that have been allowed for our industry, as well as a whole host of other industries, so it really is not a subsidy at all here.

So, our dialogue back with the Administration really is trying to get clarity around those points. And really, when you think about it, particularly around the IDCs, this is something that's been in play for a long period of time, for decades. It allows you to have an earlier deduction for a risky business that, for a smaller player in particular, allows them to afford the huge capital outlays that they're putting at risk. And so, I think for smaller companies in particular, this is an enormous issue for companies like that.

And really, the message we want to get across here on this point is that in order to make more supplies available for the globe and to get energy prices into the more affordable range, what you really want to do is incent production and incent domestic supplies, not tax them or take away tax deductions that they have currently.

DOUG LEGGATE: I'm sorry. Would it change your investment philosophy or not?

PAT YARRINGTON: You know, I think it's a hypothetical, and we don't really want to go there. Obviously, we'd have to look at the full economics of what is allowed from a tax code standpoint.

DOUG LEGGATE: I understand, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, The Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: I had a couple for Gary. First, Gary, Moccasin and Coronado, are those Miocene or lower tertiary prospects?

GARY LUQUETTE: Lower tertiary.

MARK GILMAN: In both cases?

GARY LUQUETTE: Yes.

MARK GILMAN: Can you update us or comment at all on your planned activity in the Duvernay?

GARY LUQUETTE: We're going to start an exploration appraisal program late this fall, Mark, and we have additional wells planned in 2012. We're going to do some seismic work, and use the seismic and well work to start trying to better understand the resource potential in that recent lease acquisition.

MARK GILMAN: Just one more, if I could, regarding Atlas specifically. How does the activity level envisioned for this year compare to that which Atlas had underway previously? And can you give me a rough idea what some of the individual well metrics look like in terms of IPs or EURs, Gary?

GARY LUQUETTE: Okay. Mark, first of all, a pretty substantial increase year on year in terms of activity levels, but, I must say, not as high as what Atlas had planned.

As we have taken control of that operation and started working with the Atlas employee base and the contractor base, I think we felt going a little bit slower early on to try to take a more measured approach towards building the execution efficiency that we want was in order, but we're going to be on the level of about 70 wells this year, which is about five times what they drilled in 2010.

So we're on a very steep curve. It's very early in the processing of that resource base, so we expect to continue to increase our activity levels there, but at a very measured pace to make sure that we get it done right, the Chevron way.

And on the last question, I think it's just too early for us to start putting a dot on the map with respect to IPs or EURs. It's -- obviously, we have expectations for that resource, but it's still too early for us to really be able to represent that.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I was wondering if you could help us with the overall picture on North America, Gary. If we're looking at the returns on capital with the onshore unconventional liquids play, if we're looking kind of deep offshore, I guess, what's -- where are the relative returns? What's a better place to put an incremental dollar to work if you had to be forced to put a dollar in one place or another?

GARY LUQUETTE: We have a very diverse portfolio, Faisel, and we're in the business both for short-term returns as well as longer-term positioning ourselves to have good access to resources for the next 10 years and the 10 years after that.

So, we kind of use a basket, if you will, of performance metrics that we use in allocating our capital program, so it's hard to pick winners and losers. Some represent lower return, longer life resources. The others represent shorter payout, higher returns sorts of opportunities, and what we try to do is balance that across the portfolio of investment opportunities.

FAISEL KHAN: So, no -- you couldn't give me a relative view of which areas are better than others in terms of the different prospects?

GARY LUQUETTE: No, I really can't. Because we are managing across the North American portfolio, and then the North American portfolio is then fit into a global upstream portfolio, so I think it's -- it would be just too hard to do that right now.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, got you. And then, if I'm looking at the 15 permit applications that you guys intend to file, are those going to all come at once or are they going to come kind of over a period of the next 12 to 24 months?

GARY LUQUETTE: So they're going to come over a period of time, but the permit applications that I laid out in my opening remarks are going to come sooner versus later.

These are all permits for exploration wells, development wells, delineation wells associated with the program that we have laid out over the next couple of years, so we expect to move those permits as swiftly as we can through our shop and into the government shop so that they can start their process of review and approval.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, great. And then, if I'm looking at the lower 48 for you guys for your onshore rig activity, both gas and liquids, how many rigs do you guys have deployed between those two plays and how do you think it will trend throughout the year?

GARY LUQUETTE: I can't answer how many rigs. It's just a detail that I don't have with me this morning. But I can assure you that rig count is higher in 2011 than it was in 2010. We are increasing activity both onshore and offshore. And so, those counts are increasing.

FAISEL KHAN: I appreciate the time. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: I've got a question for Gary, and then one for Pat. Gary, on the -- you've been obviously responsible for talking to the regulatory authorities about the Gulf of Mexico drilling. In terms of the increased oversight and the requirements for testing of BOPs, et cetera, how much do you think that's going to add to cost on a kind of average exploration and an average development well, in your opinion?

GARY LUQUETTE: We still haven't, I think, got at a run rate and a pace, Iain, that would let me understand what the total revamped system incremental cost might be.

I think the costs that we are -- the change that we most are concerned about is the time required to process permits. Clearly, there's going to be incremental costs. We know, for instance, on the recent well designs that we have put in, we've had to enhance our casing program, in some cases running casing all the way back up to the surface, whereas in the past that was done in a tieback fashion. So we're seeing incremental costs on the casing program of those wells that can be in the range of 10% of the well costs.

But the whole system of inspection, certification, implementing, verifying, certifying, all that is yet to be sussed out. We're going to need more time.

IAIN REID: So have you actually reconsidered drilling certain wells due to this increased requirements which you see now?

GARY LUQUETTE: No. It hasn't changed our view towards individual wells or towards the Gulf of Mexico in a broader sense.

IAIN REID: And one question about Australia. You have had further exploration success in the Carnarvon. And you showed us at the -- on the strategy meeting, your resource base there. I just wonder how close you are now to starting serious work on the fifth train at Gorgon now.

PAT YARRINGTON: I think it's really premature to have us go down that path. We did show you materials back in March that suggested we've got additional gas supplies available that would support or underpin a fourth train.

But I don't want to get too far out over our skis in thinking beyond that. I will say it is a hugely prolific basin, however, and so if that becomes -- if we have continued exploration success there, then that's something that certainly would be in our sights.

Obviously, brownfield expansions are much more economic than greenfield, and if there's a way to see ourselves to a fifth train, we certainly would like to do that, but we're not at that stage of committing to that at this point.

IAIN REID: You think you need more drilling to do that or is it just more interpretation of what you've got?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think there is more drilling and interpretation.

IAIN REID: Okay, and one final question. On your dividend increase, I was a bit confused about whether that applied to this quarter or whether that's a second-quarter event.

PAT YARRINGTON: It will be a second-quarter payment.

IAIN REID: Payment, yes, and declared as (multiple speakers)

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, so the second-quarter dividend for the second-quarter payment will be at $0.78 a share.

IAIN REID: Okay. So the First quarter dividend is still $0.72?

PAT YARRINGTON: That's correct.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: I wonder, Gary, if you could just expand a little bit on the new business unit that was established with Atlas. Is that going to include all of Chevron's pre-existing unconventional resources and will that wrap in the global portfolio as well?

GARY LUQUETTE: Thanks for the question, Allen, and the short answer is, no, it will not.

Initially, the new business unit is going to be focused on the recent acquisitions, the assets that Atlas had in the portfolio. That includes the Marcellus, as well as the Antrim production out of Michigan. We want this unit to get focused early on on those assets to make sure that we have a smooth transition, a smooth integration, and we get started on the right foot.

We also realize that there is going to be things that we're going to develop and learn from this asset base that's going to be very applicable to some of the shale gas acquisitions, the acreage that we picked up over the course of 2010. So, we're going to start working on surrounding this organization with a center of expertise for shale gas that will allow us to leverage those learnings, but at the same time, we want to be very careful that our start in the Marcellus is a good one, a safe one, a reliable one, so that we can build a very sound base there for decades to come.

ALLEN GOOD: Sounds good. I wonder if you could elaborate, as well, on your water treatment plans. I know that whole situation has gotten a lot of press lately, and the detrimental impact or supposed detrimental impact from the fracking fluid and the other water treatment plants. I was just interested in what your plan is there if you're not going to be able to treat it at the public utilities anymore.

GARY LUQUETTE: Eventually, we were going to get there anyway, Allen, and we were going to do that through adding a second and eventually growing our frack spreads so that we could drill and complete more wells. That's on the natural plan.

And what we're going to do is we're going to accelerate some of that activity, so we'll actually add a frack spread to our operation a little earlier. That will consume much of the surplus water, and then the rest of the water that is left over, we will inject in permitted disposal wells.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Just hope to get an update on two of your frontier programs, the Liberian entrance from late last year and also your plan for Romania from earlier this year.

PAT YARRINGTON: Really, we don't have a tremendous amount of update relative to what we said back in March.

We have the three licenses that we acquired. We have a 70% interest there. Obviously, it's a significant deepwater -- there have been significant deepwater discoveries in the region, and we're maturing the prospects. We plan to drill a well later this year.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: That's Liberia, and on Romania?

PAT YARRINGTON: You know, on Romania, it really is drilling as well. I mean, further evaluation, seismic activity, as the year progresses. There's not an extensive more update that I can provide at that point in time.

OPERATOR: Hernan Ladeuix, CLSA.

HERNAN LADEUIX, ANALYST, CLSA: I have a question about the energy projects in Australia. I wonder if you can share any thought about the impact of the Australian dollar on the cost of Gorgon and potentially on the plans for Wheatstone.

PAT YARRINGTON: Both projects, Gorgon and Wheatstone, obviously could be affected by the foreign exchange impact.

But I'd just say both projects, and let me just say focus in primarily on Gorgon. It's a global project. We have a lot of activity that's going on in Australia, but there is an awful lot of the procurement activity that is done globally. So we have currency impacts that are Korean, other Asian countries, European, U.S. dollar, et cetera. So, it is a multi-currency project, and it's a part of the impact that will occur over multiple years.

Same thing would be true of a Wheatstone project. I would just offer, though, that we have -- as we go forward on these projects from an FID standpoint, we have an awful lot of the cost activity that is well defined and well scoped and, in many cases, fully committed.

So on Gorgon, we committed -- reaffirmed back in March that we were on schedule and on cost for the Gorgon project. On Wheatstone, we intend to go to FID later this year. We have the contracts out for bid at this point in time and we should have a firm estimate of what that project cost will be at that point in time.

HERNAN LADEUIX: But Jeanette, should we still think about $37 billion on that, given the fact that not only the Australian but other currencies have moved up substantially since the time of the FID?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, you should still consider to think about the $37 billion. Remember, that's over a 60-month construction period. The dollar moves up and down, and there's an awful lot of variation that can occur. And we're early days into this. We're only about 20 months or so into the Gorgon project, so there's a lot of time left, as well.

OPERATOR: I'm not showing any further questions in the queue at this time.

PAT YARRINGTON: All right. I guess that we'll close off here. Let me wrap up and just say I think everybody's time and attention here this morning and the participation on the call.

I particularly want to applaud the folks who asked the questions because that helps get more clarification out there. Thank you, everybody. Appreciate your interest in Chevron. Goodbye.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That concludes Chevron's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i3251 : Mining/Oil/Gas Field Machinery | i1300013 : Natural Gas Exploration | iindstrls : Industrials | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | kampa : Cambodia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indochz : Indo-China | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110513e74t007y6
  


 HD
 Q4  2010  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,722 words
   PD
28 January 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter 2010 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. John Watson. Please go ahead.

JOHN WATSON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Okay, thanks, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, our CFO; and Jeanette Ourada, General Manager of Investor Relations. Our focus today is on our financial and operating results for the fourth quarter of 2010, and we'll refer to the slides that are available on our website.

   TD
Of course, before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements, and we ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide two.

I'd like to share some of our strategic accomplishments for 2010, which are located on slide three. I'll begin with our safety performance. This past year, we achieved our safest year ever -- again, I might add, our safest year ever -- with both our Upstream and Downstream operations setting new records. We're very proud of our world-class safety performance, and it will continue to underpin everything we do.

In the Upstream, our achievements were many. We exceeded our production growth guidance, delivering 2% growth for the year. We've progressed a number of key projects. We sanctioned three deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico, along with Papa-Terra project in Brazil. We also sanctioned the expansion of the Caspian Pipeline, a critical step forward for our next Tengiz expansion in Kazakhstan.

We continued our Australian exploration success with five discoveries. This brings us to a total of nine discoveries since we sanctioned Gorgon 18 months ago. These additional volumes will support expansion opportunities at both Gorgon and Wheatstone.

Finally, we added a significant amount of new deepwater and shale acreage to our portfolio. We're currently in the early phases of evaluating and planning for these new opportunities.

Looking at our Downstream business, we made truly great progress in the first year of a three-year plan to improve returns. A new organization is now in place and focused on tactical plans to improve performance. In 2010, we sold the Colonial Pipeline, exited seven countries, and most U.S. East Coast markets. We received good value for these assets. These exits lower cost and capital employed in the Downstream, allowing us to focus on markets of competitive strength. We also made progress on our capital projects with startups in the U.S., Korea and Qatar.

In all, 2010 was an excellent year, both operationally and financially. Pat will now take you through our fourth quarter financial results. Let's turn it over to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON, VP AND CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Ok thanks, John. Slide four provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's fourth quarter earnings were $5.3 billion, or $2.64 per diluted share. Comparing the fourth quarter 2010 to the same quarter a year earlier, our earnings were up over 70%. Upstream benefited from higher prices and sales volumes, and Downstream benefited from higher refined product andn chemical margins and asset sales.

For the year, earnings were $19 billion, or $9.48 per diluted share. Return on capital employed for the year was over 17%, and our debt ratio at year end was 9.8%. We paid $5.7 billion in dividends, and 2010 marked the 23rd consecutive annual dividend increase with an annual average growth rate over the period of 7%.

In the fourth quarter we resumed our common stock repurchase program, repurchasing 750 million of our shares. In the first quarter of 2011, we expect to repurchase another 750 million.

Finally, Chevron's 2010 TSR, total shareholder return, was nearly 23%. Over a five-year period we continue to hold the number one ranking in our peer group and have outpaced the S&P 500 by over 10%.

Now, on slide five, underscoring Chevron's financial strength, our cash balances exceeded debt by $5.6 billion at the end of the year. In the fourth quarter, cash from operations exceeded $8 billion for the full year, cash from operations exceeded $31 billion, a record for the Company. And this is after nearly $1.5 billion in pension contributions. Along with proceeds from our assets divestments, our cash flow provided excellent support for our capital expenditures, our dividend payments and our share buyback program. Our previous investments are generating strong earnings and cash flow, allowing us to reinvest in our project queue while sustaining meaningful dividend growth and a share buyback program. Certainly, our strong cash flows and our solid balance sheet continue to be a competitive advantage.

Turning to slide six, I'll compare results of the fourth quarter 2010 with the third quarter of 2010. And as a reminder, our earnings release compares fourth quarter 2010 with the same quarter a year ago. Fourth quarter earnings were $1.5 billion higher than the third quarter. Results for all of the segments improved between periods. Upstream earnings were up nearly $1.3 billion, driven by higher oil prices and higher liftings. Downstream results were nearly $200 million higher. Gains on asset sales and favorable timing effects were partly offset by higher operating expenses. The variance in the "Other" bar reflects a favorable swing in corporate tax items.

On slide seven, our U.S. Upstream earnings for the fourth quarter were $16 million lower than the third quarter's results. Realizations increased earnings by $180 million. U.S. crude realizations rose over $7 per barrel between consecutive quarters, about $1 less than the increase in the average spot price of WTI. Natural gas realizations fell between quarters, in line with Henry Hub spot prices, offsetting about $30 million of the liquids realization benefit.

Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $30 million between periods, primarily due to higher maintenance costs associated with multiple assets. Inventory effects had a $60 million unfavorable impact between quarters, primarily due to year-end LIFO draw-downs. The "Other" bar is comprised of a number of unrelated items, including higher abandonment expenses and lower gas marketing earnings.

Now, on slide eight, International Upstream earnings were up $1.3 billion compared with the third quarter. Higher oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $600 million. Average liquid realizations rose 14% between quarters, slightly higher than the increase in average Brent spot prices. Natural gas realizations increased 2% between quarters. Higher liftings, particularly in Kazakhstan and Indonesia, increased earnings nearly $400 million.

Operating expenses decreased earnings by $120 million. About half of that total was due to a new Indonesian agreement where we sell oil and purchase natural gas. Previously, we had handled this through a volume exchange. And with the new arrangement, the natural gas purchased shows up in operating expense with an identical offset in liftings from the oil sale. There is no bottom line earnings impact and no impact on production. As a result of this new agreement, we expect the 2011 full-year increase in reported operating expense to be approximately $1 billion.

Moving to the next bar, a favorable change in foreign currency effects benefited earnings by $190 million. The fourth quarter had a small loss of about $50 million compared to a $250 million loss in the third quarter. These foreign exchange impacts have no direct effect on cash. They are primarily balance sheet translation effects.

The "Other" bar reflects a number of unrelated items, including lower tax, exploration and depreciation expenses.

Slide nine summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Production increased 48,000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter. Higher prices reduced volume under production sharing and variable royalty contracts during the current quarter, decreasing production about 18,000 barrels a day. The average WTI spot price increased about $9 between quarters. For the fourth quarter, each dollar increase in WTI resulted in a 2,000 barrel-a-day volume reduction.

Base business production increased 32,000 barrels a day between quarters. It is unusual to see a positive variance for this bar. The absence of third quarter planned turnarounds in Europe and Karachaganak more than offset normal base business declines and planned maintenance in Thailand.

Contributions from major capital projects increased fourth quarter production by 34,000 barrels a day, primarily driven by the ramp up of the AOSP expansion in Canada and higher volumes in the Gulf of Mexico.

Slide 10 compares full-year 2010 net oil equivalent production to that of 2009. Production rose 2%, or 59,000 barrels a day. On a price-adjusted basis we achieved a 3% production increase in 2010. Price impacts from production sharing and variable royalty contracts decreased production by 38,000 barrels a day. The average WTI price increased about $18 in 2010, and for the full year then, each dollar increase in WTI resulted in about a 2,000 barrel-per-day volume production reduction.

Base business combined with external constraints lowered production by 73,000 barrels a day. Record base business reliability and system optimizations limited our decline rate to about 4%, in-line with the guidance we've provided earlier in the year. Also included in this bar are the favorable production benefits from fewer security disruptions in Nigeria and higher natural gas demand in Asia. Incremental production from our major capital projects contributed 170,000 barrels a day to 2010 oil and gas production, reflecting de-bottlenecking at Tengiz SGI/SGP in Kazakhstan and a full year of production from Tahiti in the Gulf of Mexico and Frade in Brazil.

Now on slide 11, compared to the third quarter U.S. Downstream earnings improved $126 million in the fourth quarter. Indicator margins reduced earnings by $85 million. We saw stronger Gulf Coast refining indicator margins, in part driven by seasonal heating demand. However, West Coast margins fell by 11%, reflecting the end of the peak driving season and high inventory levels. Marketing indicator margins continued to weaken in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter turnaround activities were also a major driver in the quarter of negative $140 million earnings impact. This came about because of lower volumes and higher operating expenses.

In the fourth quarter we sold our interest in the Colonial Pipeline Company and in seven terminals, realizing a combined gain of nearly $400 million. The other bar consists of several unrelated items, including lower trading and chemicals results, offset by lower turnaround related feedstock costs.

On slide 12, International Downstream earnings were also higher, increasing $51 million from third quarter's results. Weakened Asian refining and marketing margins lowered earnings by $35 million. Operating expenses increased between quarters, negatively impacting earnings by $90 million, reflecting small increases across a number of multiple expense categories. Timing effects represented a $120 million positive variance between quarters, reflecting a swing from a negative $85 million in the third quarter to a positive $35 million in the fourth quarter. The primary drivers were favorable year-end LIFO effects and lower volumes of open paper associated with underlying physical positions. Put another way, we simply had fewer cargoes and therefore less paper exposed to the higher prices.

A favorable swing in foreign currency effects benefited earnings by $65 million. Fourth quarter's foreign exchange loss was about $55 million compared to the third quarter loss of $120 million. And the "Other" bar there includes a number of offsetting items.

Now, on slide 13, fourth quarter net charges were $294 million compared to a net of $361 million charge in the third quarter, a decrease of $67 million between periods. A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $150 million benefit to earnings. Corporate charges were $83 million higher in the fourth quarter. For the full year, this segment had net charges of $1.1 billion. We believe our quarterly guidance range of between $250 million and $350 million for net charges in this All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.

And so with that I'd like to now turn it back over to John for a few thoughts on 2011.

JOHN WATSON: Ok, thanks Pat. Let's turn to slide 14. We recently announced our capital program for 2011 at $26 billion. This is about a 20% increase from our 2010 investment of $22 billion. 85% of the program is for Upstream activities, primarily related to our large multi-year projects and consistent with our well articulated Upstream growth strategies. These include our legacy LNG projects in Western Australia and projects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Africa and the Gulf of Thailand. About 11% of the planned investment is earmarked for Downstream, mostly related to maintenance and capital projects at our larger refineries.

As Pat mentioned earlier, we grew production over 2% in 2010 and exceeded both our original and interim guidance despite higher crude prices. Slide 15 shows our production outlook for 2011. Our full-year outlook for production in 2011 is 2.79 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, about a 1% increase over 2010 levels. The outlook assumes $79 per barrel, the same average price as 2010 and does not assume OPEC curtailments, material security or market impacts. The 1% increase comes from a combination of sustained performance from our base business and continued ramp-ups from major capital projects.

Turning to slide 16, heading into 2011 our strategies remain very consistent and are serving our shareholders well, we believe. In the Upstream we are on track for startup of two major capital projects -- the Platong II project in Thailand and the Agbami 2 project in Nigeria. We expect to sanction three other major capital projects -- the Wheatstone LNG project in Australia, the Vietnam Block B Gas project and the Clair Ridge project in the U.K. We will continue to progress our major capital projects with keen focus on Gorgon and our deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects.

During the fourth quarter, we announced the acquisition of Atlas Energy. We look forward to the results from the Atlas stockholders' meeting on February 16. We're currently working on integration planning. We look forward to welcoming this highly skilled team to Chevron's family and adding these assets to our portfolio.

In the Downstream we will continue on our path to improve returns, building on the solid foundation that we achieved in 2010. We expect to complete a number of divestitures and market exits, consistent with our strategy to focus on Downstream operations where we have competitive strengths. We also expect to sanction our Pascagoula Base Oil Project shortly and start up our Saudi JV chemical project this year.

Underlying all of our efforts will be a continued focus on safe, reliable operations, project execution, capital discipline and cost structure vigilance. 2011 will be another year where we continue our disciplined growth, continue maintaining our financial strength and continue to reward our stockholders. And we look forward to further discussing our plans at our Security Analyst Meeting on March 14 in New York City.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We now welcome your questions. So, Sean, please open the line for those questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions) Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Congratulations on the strong cash flow. I guess two questions -- firstly, as you look at your portfolio, housecleaning is always a good practice. What kind of level of disposals are you thinking for 2011?

JOHN WATSON: Sure Ed. In terms of divestitures, most of the efforts that you'll see in 2011 are really following up on the work we've been doing in the Downstream area. We have been pruning our portfolio chiefly of marketing assets that aren't directly linked or supplied through our refining networks. So we've announced a series of sales, and those will continue.

In addition, we've made no secret of the fact we were going to test the market around our UK refining and marketing business. And as Mike Wirth mentioned to you in the third quarter call, we've had considerable interest. And so we've said that we will dispose of those assets if we get fair value. I don't have anything to talk about specifically today, other than to say that we have had very strong interest in those assets. And so we will be continuing to work that opportunity.

Beyond that, most of the divestitures that you see in the Upstream tend to be routine disposals for assets that are at the end of their useful life. Our general view is, absent a very compelling strategic move -- there's a lot of leakage when you sell Upstream assets through tax consequences and other. And so we tend to make decisions for the long-term, but I think you could see some pruning that would be in the ordinary course of business.

ED WESTLAKE: And then maybe just one follow-up -- obviously, you're positive on U.S. gas demand and that position you picked up in the Atlas, and fracking is also helping to unlock some of the onshore oil potential in North America and elsewhere. You've got strong international exploration credentials and cash flow per barrel. What's stopping you being more assertive, given the cash you've got on the balance sheet and in the nonconventional area? Maybe talk through your plans.

JOHN WATSON: When we talked about unconventionals last year at our meeting in New York, we had indicated that we thought the prices were, frankly, a bit high at that time, and that we have had a fairly active interest in shale gas properties. So we have been accumulating opportunities overseas. We've done so in Poland and Romania and Canada. And we had said that we were looking in the United States, but we hadn't seen the value proposition.

Well, as we progressed through the year, we saw values improve, and so we did make what we think is a good offer for Atlas Energy, and that's the kind of low-cost entry that we're looking to make. Now, our first order of business is to close that transaction, and we'll look forward to the shareholders' vote next month. Having said that, we're in the business of acquiring assets. We do so through leases, we do so through discovered resources and we do so through companies, periodically. And so that effort will continue, including in shale areas, if we see the right commercial opportunities. We try to be a little bit -- we try to either be ahead of the game so that we get low-cost entries, or we try to wait for the right opportunity, given market effects for discovered resource or companies, as the case may be.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, ISI Group.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Congratulations on your results, guys. John my question is on the Upstream. Globally, your production growth was impressive in 2010 when you consider that your output would have risen 4% before price effects, and that it did rise by 2% with price affects, and that's after the 7% gain in 2009. And as you pointed out, both of these numbers were well ahead of expectations. So I wanted to see why you believe the Upstream segment has been able to consistently surpass expectations in recent years, meaning for the past couple of years price effects were a neutral factor, which implies that external effects, stronger base business and/or better performance on new projects drove this surprise in relation to expectations. So I just wanted to see if you could provide any additional insight into some of the things that might be driving this performance.

JOHN WATSON: Thanks for the comments. I think we have had a very good run. As you point out, actually over the last five years we have hit the target that we laid out for the financial community for production growth. And we recognize that that's helped our credibility, and we are focused on doing the same thing again.

In terms of why that has happened, I think it's a combination of things. I think I'd start with the people and the leadership that we've got. George Kirkland and his leadership team are simply terrific and do a great job. They're supported by a technology organization, a project execution organization that works very well. Our business model has strong leaders on the ground supported by functional groups. And we think that that works very well.

Now, it helps to have good assets in the portfolio. And of course, we think that we have those -- we think we have those as well. You saw that we had some nice gains in Kazakhstan, in Deepwater Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere last year.

The final thing that I -- maybe one other thing I would mention is, we talk a lot about our base business work that isn't quite as glamorous as, perhaps, some of the major capital projects. But the blocking and tackling around well reliability, maintenance, facilities debottlenecking, etc., has really been outstanding. And that initiative really moved forward in the middle part of this last decade. And George and his team, with support of many throughout the organization, have just done an outstanding job. And I give them a lot of credit for the work that's gone on.

And we have really made progress by production efficiency and other internal measures that we use to track that, and we're looking forward to sustaining it and finding new ways to do even better. But those will be the things I would highlight.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, great job, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: A question on reserve bookings, and I know that it has been and will remain lumpy, and we should see a significant impact in 2011 when Wheatstone reaches FID. But I was wondering if you could give some color on the bookings and whether you booked anything on the GOM projects that were sanctioned, Tahiti and Big Foot and Jack/St. Malo and whether those bookings were influenced by either inactivity or SEC technical definitions, particularly regarding Jack.

JOHN WATSON: This is a good question on this technical subject. I think that your premise is pretty good. The previous five years, we had more than replaced reserves, and it is lumpy, and it's a function of a couple things. It's a function primarily of major capital project timing. There are price effects, so our reserve replacement rate was 24%. It would have been something like 37% without price effects. But beyond that, it's really the timing of major capital project bookings.

Now, if you go back some years, it was quite common that, when you went to FID, you had major bookings. In this instance, we had three deepwater developments -- Jack/St. Malo, Big Foot in the Gulf of Mexico and Papa-Terra in Brazil that, based on the economics that we've run that sanctioned the projects -- and remember, these projects, our share is about $8 billion. So we feel confident enough in the resource that was there that it would be recoverable to make those investments. But the volumes that we premised those projects on, which are close to 600 million barrels -- we didn't book any of them. And we didn't book them for the reason that you described. There's an economic producibility test that the SEC has, under our interpretation of the rules, that first you start with the technical qualifications for what can be booked early. And typically, that limits the number of barrels. And it's those barrels alone, not what you ultimately expect to recover, have to cover all the capital costs, which may include infrastructure for future expansions and the like.

And so you get into this situation where you have to get enough -- sunk cost behind you before you can book the reserves. And that's just the SEC rules, and we live by them. But we think it contributes to the lumpiness that you described. And you can go back over the last 10 years, and we've had periods that were low and periods that were very high. This happened to be a low year, but it doesn't -- it's not impacted by the moratorium that we've seen. It's more impacted by the SEC rules. And as you say, as we press forward with these, we'll expect to record bookings in future years.

EVAN CALIO: That's great. And maybe a somewhat related question -- in the 1% production guidance for 2011, I know the tricky part is forecasting the base. I believe last year you were at a 6% base decline underlying those numbers. I was wondering what you're assuming there in the Gulf of Mexico, activity wise, and how we can think about incremental risks either way on that guidance or even future production growth. Thanks.

JOHN WATSON: I'll make a couple comments -- first, in a broad sense we have seen a reduction in our base business decline rates, and from 6% or so in past years now into the 3% or 4% range. So I think that reflects a number of things, including the progress that we've made on our base business work.

Now, as far as the Gulf of Mexico going forward, maybe I'll take a minute. This may be a little bit longer answer that you wanted, but I would like to comment on the subject. The progress in getting back to work has been slower than we would have expected. There's some maintenance work going on, but fundamentally the moratorium is up, but they're not issuing permits. And I think they're trying to get it perfect in terms of some of the regulations that they are putting in place. So we keep getting more thrown at us.

If you reflect back on the last year, the industry and regulators have done an enormous amount of work to try to raise the bar, if you will, on standards for all operators. I've made it very clear that Chevron has operated at a high standard, but enormous progress has been made to include prevention so that it's -- in the very unlikely event that has been well documented, it doesn't happen again. And we think that prevention steps have been improved. In addition, containment cleanup is far better than it was. So we're in a much better position as an industry than we were previously. And no company, based on the comments I've had from administration officials and regulators, no company has done more to engage the government to try to improve the standards and get us back to work. And my comment here is that time is about up. We can operate very safely. Our industry has an outstanding safety record, notwithstanding the terrible incident of last year. Our days away from work rate in the industry is lower than the federal government's, the fatality rates for serious incidents in the oil and gas business is lower than most other manufacturing businesses that you could name. And we just think that the unprecedented step of just shutting down a business has reached the point of diminishing returns and it's time to get back to work.

The administration wants to create jobs. We can create thousands of them. I'm very concerned about energy security for the country going forward. Independent experts have said that already 300,000 barrels a day have been lost if you look out three or four years, and that number is going to grow. And that's going to represent a sizable chunk of the spare capacity that the industry expects to see. And that will impact prices, and that will retard economic growth. So we can operate safely. We can create jobs. We can reduce dependence on imports. And I think it's time to get back to work. But I can't tell you how fast this is going to proceed. We seem to take a step forward and then take a step back with difficulties in interpreting the new NTLs that are out there. We engage heavily, we try to be of assistance. But the bottom line is they're not issuing permits, and until they issue permits deepwater development, both exploration and development wells, for the most part won't be drilled. I wish I could give you a precise timing, but I can't. So that's a long-winded answer to your question, but that's the best I can give you.

EVAN CALIO: Does your guidance assume activity in 2011?

JOHN WATSON: It does, it does assume that. We've made assumptions about when we might get back to work; that's in there. There are development wells that are being -- that we expect to drill. There's activity on the Shelf that we have some expectations for. More importantly, exploration wells won't be drilled. We suspended wells that were in progress last year. We would like to finish those and move on to others. In the grand scheme of things, Chevron can deal with this. It cost us about $100 million or so after-tax last year. We can deal with this in the short run, but it's very difficult on small companies, very difficult on service providers. We're seeing rigs leave the area. And we just think the time is about up, and we need to get back to work. It's the right thing for the country.

EVAN CALIO: Excellent, thank you for sharing.

PAT YARRINGTON: And I just want to add, the $100 million is really the op expense-only impact. If you include forgone revenues, foregone production, obviously it's much larger than that.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, BofA Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Can I try a couple, John, please, hopefully they're not too long-winded. The first one I'll put to Pat first; hopefully she can get the numbers ready, then I'll do the second, and maybe you can give me the answer to the first.

The absolute tax benefits please, Pat, by division, if you have them in the quarter -- I'm trying to understand what the underlying tax rate was.

And while you figure that out, John, the question I have is really a follow-up on Evan's question about production. Obviously, we've got a much higher oil price than any of us really expected internationally, I think is probably a fair comment. I'm not so much looking at the PSC sensitivity. I'm thinking more about cost recovery cliffs on some of the new projects, how quickly you actually move through cost recovery such that your underlying production, obviously, after a period of time has moved to a production share.

At the same time, given what you said to Evan, what if you don't get back to work in the Gulf? Can you give us an indication how that might impact -- what the range would be perhaps in your production outlook?

And, finally, what's going on with the base decline? Are you actually putting money back into gas projects now, which I think was originally what George has deferred capital from before? So if you could round out the production question, and then maybe given the tax answer that would be great.

JOHN WATSON: You covered a lot of ground there. Let me see if I can address some of that.

First, the basic decline, as I indicated, Company-wide is in the 3% to 4% range. As far as gas investments go, in the United States, once we close the Atlas acquisition, there's a favorable carry in that agreement. So activity in the Marcellus would ramp up, as had been -- the work that's being done by Atlas and planned to be done. So that will ramp up, so we will see more drilling activity there.

As far as the Gulf of Mexico goes, we've made some assumptions about -- well, about when we get back to work this year. And I'm not going to go into a lot of detail on that. Now, what I would say is, if we went the whole year without activity, the number would be lower than what -- that we have put forward. We've exceeded our guidance this year, for several reasons. One, the base business results were very good. We've had a little bit higher market demand than we might have expected. And we also didn't have the hurricane season that we thought we'd have. So we factor some of these things in and a few other items. So we've had good performance. Tengiz performed better than expected last year. So there's some ebbs and flows that we take into account.

In the Gulf of Mexico, it will be important for us to get back to work, for us to continue drilling on the deepwater projects. We are not in an operating position in Perdido, and there are additional development wells to be drilled there, and we have our own activities. So it's important to us. We have assessed that in providing the guidance that we've put forward, and we will continue to update it as the year goes on. So I'm hopeful we'll be back to work. We've been keeping a lot of people and equipment busy doing maintenance and other work. But the deepwater progress has been slowed significantly. So I think I caught most of your items there.

DOUG LEGGATE: The PSC cliffs, John -- is there anything we should be aware of?

JOHN WATSON: We do have PSCs out there. Of course, if you hit a cliff sooner, that's because you're making more money because prices are higher and you're covering your costs faster. But I'm not prepared to talk about any particular cliff or impact here with you today.

Pat, do you want to talk a little about tax?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, on taxes the effective tax rate for the quarter was about 39%. And you are right; it's more favorable this quarter than last quarter. A big variable that impacts the effective tax rate for us is the foreign exchange movements because those really are balance sheet translation effects; they are not taxed. So, depending upon the size of the loss or the size of the gain that you have in any particular quarter, it obviously moves the effective tax rate. So I would just say I'm not -- that really is the primary driver between the quarters. The other thing that has occurred here is, as we earn more out of our Downstream segment, typically it is coming from lower taxed jurisdictions, and so you get a mix effect.

DOUG LEGGATE: Very quick follow-up, Pat, if I may. Sorry. So basically does that get allocated to any particular division? And sorry, John, but very quickly, can you quantify the expected contribution from Atlas this year and how do we get there?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. We book the taxes in accordance with the segment where the earnings are accrued. The taxes are accrued there as well. Foreign exchange is also in the segment.

JOHN WATSON: I'm not going to say much about Atlas. We're in a very sensitive time period right now leading up to the shareholder vote. With the successful shareholder vote, we'll close the transaction, and we'll be happy to give you more information at that point.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I want to follow up on the Gulf of Mexico. To the event, unfortunately, that if the current impasse continue, at what point -- let's say you say that a year from now, two years from now, your development cycle time for the Jack/St. Malo, now Big Foot, all of them that is currently assumed to be 2014 startup, at what point that you start to have a question mark on those startup date?

JOHN WATSON: The impact on the big projects -- construction -- we've gone FID. The facilities work is proceeding. The issue really isn't that it will impact startup date. The issue is really how many wells will come online at startup because we have three deepwater rigs, and we use those rigs for exploration and development. And so we will have to prioritize, once we get back to work, which wells we drill. And we'll make those choices. But, obviously, the fewer wells you drill, some of those could be development wells. And so it would push off the ramp-up, not so much the first oil day. So Jack/St. Malo is on track for the 2014 start up, and I don't expect that to be impacted. Only the drilling schedule ramp-up would be the impact.

PAUL CHENG: So that you don't think any of the changes in the regulations will impact your design work and have to go back and redo and corresponding with that? You don't think there's any real impact on the startup? It's just at what pace you can ramp up or at what pace you start up that?

JOHN WATSON: Well, we're incorporating some design changes now that have come about. I wouldn't advertise these as being material. We've been operating at a very high standard already, and so we have not been significantly impacted. But there are some changes, and we can give you a lot more granularity on schedule information on some of these at our SAM meeting. Jeanette wants to add something here.

JEANETTE OURADA, GM - IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: We have said before that, in 2011 the development drilling that we have planned in the Gulf of Mexico -- it is very -- it's towards the end of the year, and we did that intentionally.

PAUL CHENG: On the Atlas Energy, what is your overall game plan that you look at in the non-conventional play in the U.S.? Do you get a sort of like a bridge headway now? And how aggressive do you think you want to increase the exposure in there?

And also, when we're looking at -- some of your peers have reason -- recently appearing aggressively moving into the unconventional liquid plays, whether it's in the Eagle Ford or Bakken. And, in some ways I think Chevron is noticeably -- may have been left behind, or missing in there. So do you think that it's a bit too late for you guys to go into those, or that you think that you just have to wait and maybe opportunity will show up?

JOHN WATSON: Well, I think you're first talking about unconventional gas. And we feel good about the Atlas acquisition. It's a low-cost resource base, and we'll continue to -- once we get that transaction closed, we feel very good about it, particularly good about the economics, given the carry that's in play. So we'll continue to look there and will continue to look for other opportunities. Up to now, we haven't been as big on the liquid side. But in general, if you look at the unconventional business in the United States, it's been developed by the independents and smaller companies. The reason for that is that there's a great deal of land work that has to be done, and so you are going farm to farm, or property owner to property owner. It's a very labor-intensive process, and so you've seen small companies make those moves.

In due course, Chevron has the opportunity to come in. We do think we have something to offer from a technology point of view, and we'll continue to evaluate the opportunities that we see on either gas or liquids. I would note that we have been pretty active internationally, as I commented earlier, adding acreage. And we continue to look for new opportunities.

PAUL CHENG: A final question for me, if I could -- in the U.S. Downstream, you're excluding the asset sales gain, you earned $75 million. Chemical earnings are up, and based on what your partner Conoco report, it seems to suggest that U.S. R&M actually lost quite a bit of money in the quarter. In some ways, that's somewhat surprising because the market condition, quite frankly, is not really that bad in the fourth quarter. I understand you have down time, but looking at your total throughput is not necessarily much worse than the other quarter in the last two years. So does that mean that your operation in the refining basically that will lose money in the kind of market condition we saw in the fourth quarter?

JOHN WATSON: Let me add a couple of comments, and then I'll let Pat offer a few things. The first comment I want to make is, we've been very pleased with our chemical business. It was a decade ago that we put together Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, and it has far exceeded the expectations that I had at that time. And so it has been profitable. We also have an additives business that has been successful as well, and we did put these businesses together in the last year so that Mike Wirth and his team can really make the right manufacturing and marketing decisions for all the molecules together in the Downstream and Chemicals business. And that's gone quite well. I'll let Pat comment a little bit on profitability, noting that margins were different on the Gulf Coast and West Coast.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right, and I think the primary thing you want to take into account here for the fourth quarter were impacts of turnarounds. It was a significant turnaround quarter. That is not unusual in the fourth quarter of the year. Actually, it's not unusual in the first quarter of the year, either. That significantly impacted the segment results for the basic R&M.

JOHN WATSON: Mike and his team have done a fantastic job this last year of delivering on the things that he outlined last year. We've gone through difficult times with employees, but we have really exceeded our expectations in that regard, capturing benefits. And we've, as I noted earlier, made some of the portfolio moves. And Mike will give you a lot more update on this, but our Downstream business is doing well and on track to deliver the improvements in returns that he outlined. We've got a three-year plan to do that, and we're ahead of pace for the first year.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: I wanted to ask about a couple of the capital projects that will be coming up for final investment decision. First of all, on Wheatstone, John, do you think you have enough contracted off-take already to be able to move forward with the project? Or are incremental off-take contracts still necessary for FID? And are you seeing any cost pressures at Gorgon that would potentially cause you to go back and look at your estimates again, or even to delay the final investment decision so as not to be competing with your own project?

JOHN WATSON: On the offtake, we've been really pleased with the marketing that we have been doing for both Gorgon and Wheatstone. In fact, we announced another agreement very recently. We're at the 80% and 90% level for both projects, in terms of agreements that we have in place.

And we certainly don't view sales agreements as an impediment to a final investment decision for Wheatstone. In terms of cost pressures, we're going through the engineering work now, and we expect, based on what we are seeing, that we'll have a good handle on costs, sufficient to make a final investment decision later in the year. We're obviously very close to what's happening the markets because of our position in Gorgon. Gorgon is a $37 billion project, but we've let contracts totaling about $25 billion so far. So we have a good idea what's in the marketplace. We're monitoring it as well, and I don't expect that those cost pressures -- which are real -- will impact final investment decisions, since we've got a pretty good idea of where they come from and how to mitigate them.

JASON GAMMEL: That' great, and then with the decision now to expand the Caspian Pipeline, and given that you are seeing just tremendous reservoir performance at Tengiz, when would you envision that you would be looking for sanctioning the next phase of Tengiz expansion?

JOHN WATSON: Well, a couple comments -- first, it's both reservoir and facilities performance at Tengiz that has been very good. In terms of sanctioning it, I think first thing's first. We will make a FEED decision in 2011, and we will give you a little more detail in March when we come back on what the timing would be. I will say this -- we think this -- we learned a lot from the first expansion project. The technology is now proven. It's actually a simpler project than the expansion we just completed. And I won't say it's a simple project, but it's simpler in scope, given what we've learned about injection technology during that time period. So FEED very soon, and then FID following.

JASON GAMMEL: Do you think Tengiz eventually gets to a million barrels a day?

JOHN WATSON: I'll just say that we have another nice expansion coming, and I'll let George give you a little bit of update on that. But certainly, there's more there than the over 600,000 barrels a day that we've been producing on a 100% basis recently.

JASON GAMMEL: Fair enough, thanks John.

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, The Benchmark Co.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK CO.: A couple of quick specific things -- John, can you give us a number for non-PSC variable royalty-related revisions implicit in the reserve numbers?

JOHN WATSON: No. Mark, I'm not trying to be cagey; we just don't give out that level of information. We've talked about the price effect, taking about 13 points off the replacement rate, but we haven't gotten into the specifics of the PSC's.

MARK GILMAN: Let me try another one. Pat, in your comments, you referenced, I think, on several occasions in terms of PSC sensitivity, this 2,000 equivalents per day/per dollar kind of number. Would you expect that to change in 2011 at all, one way or the other?

PAT YARRINGTON: The reason we give you the numbers, Mark, relative to the previous historical period so that you can see what the relationship has been. I don't know what prices are going to be going forward. We try to give you that number. It's been in that 1,800 to 2,000 barrel per WTI dollar for quite some time. I think that's a reasonable assumption -- reasonable planning base for you going forward.

MARK GILMAN: And just one final one, if I could -- give me an idea of any negative impact of rig contracts on U.S. Upstream results, both in the fourth quarter and full-year 2010.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I said -- we said earlier that the operating expense on an after-tax basis was $100 million or so, but that's predominantly the rig impact. On a full P&L basis, of course, we had the lost production. And so you are really thinking of something a couple hundred million dollars or so.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, so the $100 million is rig cancellation charges and things like that?

PAT YARRINGTON: No; it's really just idled rigs, the cost associated with idled rigs.

MARK GILMAN: And you expensed that?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes.

MARK GILMAN: And what would be the number if there were no activity in 2011, Pat?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I'm not going to go there. I'm just giving you the impact of the moratorium for us here, both from an op expense and a total P&L standpoint.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, thanks.

JOHN WATSON: We've got three deepwater rigs under contract. One of them is drilling an injection well, Tahiti, right now. It will depend upon the degree to which we can put these rigs to work.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I've got a few small questions. First, on exploration, can you guys give us an update of how exploration went in the fourth quarter? I believe you were drilling the Lagavulin well, and any other wells you were drilling in the quarter.

JOHN WATSON: We don't have anything to say on the Lagavulin well, just yet. But you're correct; it is drilling. We did announce a discovery in the Republic of the Congo. Our partner -- we are a non-operating partner there. That's certainly encouraging. And then, Australia, the progress has continued with additional discoveries there. We don't have any news, obviously, from the Gulf of Mexico because we weren't able to conduct any activity there.

FAISEL KHAN: Fair enough. And then, on the liftings, you mentioned you had higher liftings in Indonesia and Kazakhstan. So I take it, those were -- what was the quantity of over-lift you guys had in the quarter?

PAT YARRINGTON: In the third quarter, we were under-lifted in excess of 3%. In the fourth quarter, we were under-lifted just about 1%, and for the year we were under lifted about 1%.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, got you, thank you.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: First, regarding Australia, following up on the earlier question about cost escalation, anything that is happening in terms of project delays; that is labor shortages, etc., that is perhaps shifting time lines for either Gorgon or Wheatstone, as you currently see it?

JOHN WATSON: No, it hasn't. In the Australian press, you'll see things reported from time to time, and we do adjust the schedule of work. For example, right now we've got cyclones that are going through the area. So that obviously impacts work. So you read about these adjustments, but we manage that in the context of an overall critical path set of activities. And we're on that critical path. Labor is certainly a significant issue to be monitored in Australia, as it is, frankly, with all big onshore projects around the world. We've got good relationships with the unions. I think the best thing we can do to maintain those relationships with unions is to communicate well and to keep the outstanding safety record that we have, because that's certainly a priority of the union. But at this point we haven't seen any significant shifts in activity, and certainly not because of issues involving labor.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: And let me turn to Poland. Given that you will now have the in-house expertise from Atlas, is that going to change your Polish shale gas program at all in terms of moving personnel over or just transferring that skill set overseas?

JOHN WATSON: Well, it's a little early to tell. As I say, once we close the Atlas transaction, we'll be in a better position to talk about that. But certainly the expertise we're picking up -- well, first, Chevron has expertise. We've drilled hundreds of wells in the Piceance tight gas wells. We are active in the Haynes --we've been active in the Haynesville facility, so we do have expertise. But certainly, with the acquisition of Atlas, that will help us.

Now, we expect to drill our first well later this year, actually, in Poland. So as we close that transaction, we will assess the people that we have. And I think one advantage for the people of Atlas will be the opportunities that will be available elsewhere in the Chevron system, including Poland and overseas. So I'm hopeful that it will help us.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Where is your current Polish acreage position at? Is it still 1.1 million, I believe?

JOHN WATSON: Yes, yes it is.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies & Co.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Can I ask two questions, please? In Angola, there's quite a lot of excitement about the pre-salt -- some blocks were awarded recently. But as far as I'm aware, I didn't see Chevron in that group of companies. I just wondered whether you could talk about what you think about the pre-salt in Angola, and are you going to drill that from your existing acreage?

JOHN WATSON: Well, you're correct, basically, in the recent lease rounds. Pricing has been -- we're very prudent in what we bid, and if we are unable to capture something because of price, so be it. I would tell you, over the last few years we have participated in some of the lease rounds. This time we didn't capture anything. Beyond that, I probably don't have a great deal to say other than we continue to ramp up Tombua-Landana there, and have had a long and very good relationship there. Our focus right now, frankly, is on Angola LNG. That project is progressing very well toward first gas, and that's been the big focus for us recently.

IAIN REID: So you don't have any plans to drill any deeper wells in the basin, say, below the tertiary, to try and test the pre-salt?

JOHN WATSON: I don't have anything right now for you on that. If we've got more to say about the pre-salt, I'll be sure that George covers that in March.

IAIN REID: Okay, one other question. In Kazakhstan, you're a partner in Karachaganak where there has been disputes over taxes and also issues of the state company trying to push their way into the license. Are you seeing anything with the same issues in Tengiz at the moment?

JOHN WATSON: Well, you're correct; there have been some concerns that have been voiced by the government, and the partners are working through that with the government. I'm confident we'll get to some resolution. At Tengiz, from time to time we have issues that are raised, but we have rigidly adhered to the contract. We've performed very well and we've always been able to work through any issues without a material impact. And I would say the same thing is true today. We're held up in Kazakhstan as the company that has best delivered on what the government has expected. So in my visits with the President and in our relationships there, they've been very good, recognizing that from time to time that there are differences of opinion. But we've been able to work through them well, and we are in a good place in Tengiz, would be my comment.

IAIN REID: So there's no issues of that nature that would stop you further expanding Tengiz?

JOHN WATSON: No, no.

Thank you. I appreciate the very good questions. Thanks, Sean. Let me just say that we appreciate your participation in the call. I'd like to thank the analysts and I'd like to remind you that we do have our security analyst meeting in March and we look forward to seeing you there. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's fourth quarter 2010 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i3251 : Mining/Oil/Gas Field Machinery | iindstrls : Industrials | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c151 : Earnings | mnatgs : Natural Gas Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | pol : Poland | uk : United Kingdom | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110211e71s0015x
  


 HD
 Q2  2010  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,414 words
   PD
30 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's second quarter 2010 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

   TD
PAT YARRINGTON, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's second quarter earnings call and webcast. On the call with me today are George Kirkland, Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Global Upstream and Gas; Jeanette Ourada, General Manager of Investor Relations.

Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2010. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement here on slide two.

Slide three provides an overview of our financial performance. The second-quarter earnings were $5.4 billion or $2.70 per diluted share. Our second-quarter 2010 earnings more than tripled compared with the year-ago quarter.

Second quarter 2010 earnings increased 19% compared to the first quarter of 2010, which Jeanette will discuss shortly in more detail.

Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was about 16%. The debt ratio was 9.5%, with cash balances exceeding debt balances by $2.7 billion at the end of the quarter.

Jeanette will take us now through the quarterly comparisons. Jeanette?

JEANETTE OURADA, GENERAL MANAGER IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. Turning to slide four, I will compare results of the second quarter 2010 with the first quarter of 2010. As a reminder, our earnings release compares second quarter 2010 with the same quarter a year ago.

Second quarter earnings increased about $850 million from the first quarter. Upstream earnings were $180 million lower due to unfavorable tax charges and higher OpEx, partially offset by a favorable foreign currency variance.

Second quarter downstream results saw a significant improvement of nearly $780 million. Earnings benefited from stronger U.S. margins, favorable foreign currency and timing variances, as well as the absence of first quarter charges related to planned employee reductions.

The other bar, largely reflects a favorable swing in corporate tax items and lower corporate charges.

On slide five our U.S. Upstream earnings for the second quarter were $66 million, lower than the first quarter's results. Realizations in the second quarter were down $95 million. Natural gas realizations drove the decline, dropping 24%, slightly higher than the 20% decline in Henry Hub spot prices. U.S. crude oil realizations were essentially flat between quarters.

Lower production volumes decreased earnings by $40 million between periods, primarily due to downtime and normal field declines in the Gulf of Mexico. The other bar represents a benefit of $69 million, which is comprised of a number of unrelated items, including lower DD&A rates and exploration expenses.

Turning to slide six. International Upstream earnings were down $116 million compared with the first quarter. Higher realizations benefited earnings by $70 million. Liquids realizations rose 2% between quarters, in line with the increase in average Brent spot prices. Natural gas realizations were a slight offset, declining 5% between periods.

A favorable swing in foreign currency effects benefited earnings by $210 million. First quarter results included a $100 million loss that was effectively offset by a $110 million gain in the second quarter. An unfavorable swing in tax items across multiple jurisdictions decreased earnings $220 million. Second quarter charges of about $120 million effectively offset a $100 million earnings benefit in the first quarter.

OpEx increased $120 million in the second quarter, which included higher turnaround costs in Kazakhstan and Canada. The other bar reflects higher exploration expenses and DD&A rates.

Slide seven summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Production decreased 37,000 barrels per day between quarters. Price changes had a modest effect on volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts in the second quarter, about 3,000 barrels per day.

Base business production decreased 47,000 barrels per day between quarters, largely due to planned turnarounds in Kazakhstan and Canada, partially offset by higher demand driven production in Thailand.

Incremental production from major capital projects increased second quarter production by 13,000 barrels per day, primarily driven by the continued ramp-up at Frade in Brazil. George will discuss our current year production outlook in a few minutes.

Turning to slide eight. U.S. downstream earnings improved $350 million in the second quarter. Indicator margins strengthened between quarters, increasing earnings by $170 million. Refining margins improved from the depressed levels of the last several quarters. Actual margin capture from advantageous crude mix and product yields increased earnings by an additional $90 million.

Chemical results were $50 million higher, mainly due to improved margins for olefins and aromatics. The absence of an employee severance charge recorded in the first quarter benefited earnings by $50 million. The other bar is a negative variance of $9 million.

On slide nine, international downstream earnings also improved significantly, increasing about $430 million from first quarter's results. Margins were $45 million higher with improvements in Europe, partly offset by declines in Asia. A favorable swing in foreign currency effects benefited earnings by $230 million. First quarter included a $100 million loss compared to $130 million gain in the second quarter.

Timing effects represented a $155 million positive variance between quarters, reflecting favorable mark-to-market effects on derivatives tied to underlying physical positions. WTI prices dropped about $8 per barrel from the beginning to the end of the quarter.

The absence of a $100 million employee severance charge recorded in the first quarter also benefited earnings. The other bar is comprised of several unrelated items, including planned maintenance impacts at our Cape Town refinery in South Africa.

Slide 10 covers all other. Second quarter net charges were $108 million, compared to a net $368 million charge in the first quarter, a decline of $260 million between quarters. A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $220 million variance.

Corporate charges were lower in the second quarter, and included the absence of a $25 million severance charge related to workforce reductions recognized earlier in the year. We believe our quarterly guidance range of $250 to $350 million for net charges in the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.

George is now going to provide an update on our Upstream business. George?

GEORGE KIRKLAND, VICE CHAIRMAN, EVP GLOBAL UPSTREAM AND GAS, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jeanette. It's good to be back to discuss Upstream performance and our production outlook for the remainder of the year. I'm very pleased with our progress in the first half of 2010, especially around our safety and production performance. Let's begin by looking at our second quarter competitive position on earnings margins.

Please turn to slide 12.

In the first quarter our adjusted earnings per barrel were $19.50, over $3 higher than our nearest competitor. In the second quarter Upstream margins were $18.74, another excellent quarter, reinforcing the strength of our oil weighted portfolio and the quality of the new projects we're bringing online.

Based on competitor results disclosed this week, we have sustained our competitive advantage. We led our nearest competitor by over $4 per barrel this quarter. And this is our fourth consecutive quarter in the top position on this metric.

Now I'll turn to production. Please turn to slide 13.

Our first half production averaged 2.76 million barrels a day at an average WTI prize price of $78 per barrel. At the fourth quarter call in January we set full production -- full-year production guidance at 2.73 million barrels a day, based on the 2009 actual price of $62 a barrel.

Using the same price basis, our year-to-date production would be 60,000 barrels a day higher than the original guidance. Remember, a portion of our net production is sensitive to price through entitlements. At current oil prices this is about 2,000 barrels a day for every $1 price change.

Our full year production outlook at year-to-date prices of $78 per barrel is 2.75 million barrels a day, almost 2% higher than 2009 levels. At $62 per barrel this translates to 2.78 million barrels a day, or about 3% growth, significantly higher than our original guidance of 1%.

The higher growth forecast is driven by stronger base business performance, our focus on reliability and system optimization, as well as increased gas sales in Thailand.

Our annual base business decline is now estimated to be in the 4% to 5% range. Incremental production from major capital projects remains close to the original forecast. Most projects are performing as planned. Better performance has been seen at SGI/SGP in Kazakhstan, Frade in Brazil, and Mafumeira Norte in Angola.

This improved performance is offset by delays at some non-operated projects, particularly Perdido in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, and the first expansion of the Athabasca Oil Sands project in Canada.

Now please turn to slide 14.

I would like to spend a moment to discuss the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf and the follow-on impact on our operations.

First, our deepest sympathies go out to the families of the 11 individuals who lost their lives, and also to others along the Gulf Coast impacted by this tragedy.

We are very pleased that this well has been successfully capped. The drilling moratorium has impacted our offshore Gulf of Mexico operations in several ways. We expect some lost production in 2010 due to permitting delays on the Shelf and a slower ramp-up at Perdido. The full year impact is expected to be less than 10,000 barrels a day.

When the moratorium was implemented we were completing a Tahiti development well and drilling the Buckskin appraisal and Moccasin exploration wells. The Tahiti well is due to come on line soon, but other development drilling activity is now on hold. Buckskin and Moccasin operations are suspended, and our other two planned deepwater exploration wells are delayed, negatively impacting our 2010 exploration program.

We have three deepwater rigs on contract. One is currently working for BP to assist in the spill response. The other two are on standby, waiting for approval to resume drilling operations.

Although the longer-term impact of the moratorium remains unknown, we are focused on progressing our projects in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The Tahiti 2, Jack/St. Malo and Big Foot projects remain on track to reach FID later this year, assuming the moratorium is lifted.

Chevron is a leader in safety performance, and we're very confident in our abilities to safely drill and develop our deepwater projects. Our safety and environmental focus is to prevent incidents from occurring. We believe the investigations of this tragedy will show that it was preventable.

We are participating in joint industry task forces, working with a national commission to determine the appropriate path forward on drilling safety, with particular attention on prevention, containment and spill response.

The Gulf of Mexico and other deepwater basins remain very important in meeting the energy demands of the U.S. and the world. A continuation of the suspension of operations in the Gulf of Mexico will reduce supply and influence energy prices. We believe the moratorium should be lifted, and we believe that deepwater drilling can be done safely and reliably.

Turning to slide 15, I'd now like to discuss some of our significant achievements during the second quarter.

First, a short update on Gorgon. We continue to make good progress. Site preparations are underway, dredging has begun, the construction camp is being built, and we have awarded over $24 billion in contracts.

As a reminder, we have signed sales and purchase agreements for approximately 90% of the equity LNG offtake from the Gorgon trains 1 through 3.

We recently signed a Heads of Agreement with KOGAS for delivery of almost 2 million tons per annum of LNG from the Wheatstone Project. KOGAS will also acquire a 5% equity interest in the project. This is another successful step in early capture of market share for this project. We now have approximately 80% of LNG offtake from Wheatstone's train 1 and 2 tied to long-term agreements.

Also, in Australia, we have announced two deepwater natural gas discoveries in the Carnarvon Basin, Clio-3 and Sappho-1, moving us closer towards our goal of additional LNG trains at Gorgon and Wheatstone. I'm very pleased with our continued exploration success in Australia.

In Indonesia we sanctioned the 13th expansion of the Duri Field, where we have 100% working interest. This latest expansion will leverage existing steam and production facilities to increase production from the field by approximately 20,000 barrels a day.

We made good progress in capturing new opportunities. In the unconventional shale gas area we have captured 675,000 acres in Romania, and almost 200,000 acres in Western Canada. We expect to bring -- we expect to begin appraisal of the Canadian acreage by the end of 2011.

As a reminder, we recently added a million acres in Poland. In Venezuela we have formed a consortium that will work toward developing the Carabobo 3 heavy oil project in the Orinoco Belt.

In Russia we have signed a Heads of Agreement with Rosneft, Russia's largest oil company, to pursue a deepwater opportunity on the Shatsky Ridge in the Russian portion of the Black Sea.

In summary, I'm very pleased with our accomplishments in the second quarter and the first half of this year. With that, I would like to turn it back over to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thanks George. Turning to slide 16, I'd like to wrap up our prepared remarks with a recap of Chevron's strategic progress through the first half of the year.

Strong operational momentum continued in the second quarter and our safety performance remains at record levels. The Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico has heightened Investor interest in operators' safety and environmental records. We're very proud of our safety culture and our industry-leading performance in this area. We publish historical statistics annually in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which you can find on our website.

Our businesses are continuing to run well. Our major refineries are operating reliably, and Upstream production efficiency remains at a high level, which contributed to our strong first half production performance.

We are sustaining our cost management efforts. For the first half of the year, excluding one-time employee severance charges, operating and SG&A expenses were up 5% versus the comparable period in 2009. Half was related to higher fuel and transportation costs. The remainder is in line with a 4% production increase over the same period.

As George mentioned, our Upstream business is growing, and growing at an industry-leading level of profitability. He also highlighted several new opportunities that expand our set of portfolio options to continue to grow our resource base.

In the Downstream we are executing our restructuring plans. Portfolio exits and market reviews are under way, and specific actions are being taken to de-cost our operations. We anticipate the new organizational structure will be in place by the end of the third quarter.

The same drivers expanding Upstream earnings margins are contributing to our robust cash position. After paying dividends and funding our capital program, we generated about $2 billion of cash flow in the second quarter. This strong cash flow and a low net debt position allow us to maintain our financial strength and flexibility.

I'd like to close with a few words on capital intensity. It's a frequently heard question that I believe should be laid to rest. We have invested more than $60 billion in Upstream in the last four years. We brought on many major capital projects during this period that grew production 7% last year alone, and production is still growing. And we've had the highest earnings per barrel now for four consecutive quarters, and the gap is large.

This should be solid proof that our investments are attractive. We're expanding in the right parts of our portfolio. We're making the right choices on individual projects, and we have shown that we can profitably grow.

Looking forward, we're headed into another period not unlike the last four years. We're taking on world-class projects to reap the production and cash rewards when those projects come on line in the middle of the decade.

We are very comfortable with this profile, as we have proven that disciplined capital intensity is a good thing, if the projects are the right projects and you can afford it. They are and we can.

Now that concludes our prepared remarks. I, we'll now take on your questions. So, Sean, I'd ask that you open the lines for questions. Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Robert Kessler, Simmons & Company.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY: Good Morning everyone. I've got two questions for George, if I could. Firstly, just a general question for you, George, on your perceptions of the current Upstream M&A market, in particular with respect to possible more substantial additions to the Chevron portfolio?

And then secondly, with regard to your confidence in reaching FID on projects in the Gulf of Mexico later this year, notwithstanding the need for the moratorium to be lifted, I'd be curious on your thoughts on two points.

Firstly, even beyond the lifting of the moratorium, it seems we need some confidence in understanding what the new sort of technical regulatory environment will be, what's required for a development well going forward.

Secondly, with respect to your thoughts on a higher cap on -- or an unlimited cap on liabilities in the Gulf of Mexico.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: M&A is going to be the standard answer. We always are looking for opportunities that are inorganic, if you will. But they've got to compete, they've got to make economic sense for us. The market's still been very hot. People, I think, are overpaying. And once again, it's back to returns. We believe in returns. So it's got to be -- return basis, it's got to fit with our portfolio. It's got to be a bump on our returns.

On the Gulf of Mexico, the technical work, we are moving it forward as if the moratorium is going to be released -- removed. We do not know all the changes on the technical requirements. We've been leading a task force that made -- that did make recommendations that would raise the industry standards on drilling wells. I will tell you most all of those standards improvements or raising the bar, if you will, we presently do on our drilling operations.

Now we don't know the individual procedural changes, engagement with government that will be required. We are waiting to see that. But we're drilling wells around the world. We have seen higher engagement with other governments. It does have some minor impact on the time it takes to drill a well, but it is not significant.

Once again, our confidence is very high in being able to drill these wells safely, just like we've drilled hundreds of other deepwater wells. So we think it's going to move forward.

Now with regards to the liability cap, it's an issue that we can understand why governments would want to increase it. But at the same time if it gets too high, it won't impact companies necessarily like a Chevron, except in our decision-making, but for our competitor group and the broad span of the competitors, some of them may not be able to participate.

We believe competition is good. And if you've set the liability cap too high there is a lot of companies that will not be able to participate, and we don't believe that's a good thing. It may be a competitive advantage, but we don't believe it is a good thing for the industry, for consumers, so we don't support it.

ROBERT KESSLER: A very rational response. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Good Morning everybody. Thank you for taking my questions. I've got a couple questions. I guess the first one is on -- is kind of an Upstream and a capital question. George, as it relates to your comments on the underlying decline, I seem to recall several quarters ago you talked about how in the current gas environment -- gas price environment, you would probably slow the base spending, and that may accelerate your decline rate a little bit.

It doesn't appear that that is happening. Can you give some color around what has changed there that is allowing you to hold the base a little better?

And the related question is, given that you have -- I guess the capital spending for the year-to-date looks a little bit on the light side -- we're getting into the second half, we're starting to look at FIDs for the longer-term projects. Can you give us an early look as to how you -- why your capital is not quite running at the rate you suggested at the Strategy Day, and what, perhaps, the outlook might be for 2011? That would be great, thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Okay. The decline rate, you are absolutely correct. We did, I guess, say that there was a potential for a higher decline rate as we reduce some of our expenditures in the base business, particularly in 2009. We also pulled back, like you said, on some of our gas investments, and preferentially moved more, or as much as we could, towards oil.

Our success on keeping that decline rate in this 4% to 5% has been very good. It really is all related to the reliability and the production efficiency of our operations. We have seen production efficiency, which really is reliability, of our operations come up by about 2%.

So what we thought we were going to lose on decline rate has been overcome by greater efficiency, greater reliability in our base business operations. And frankly, we are extremely pleased with that. That is great for efficiency of money spent. That is getting more barrels and not spending -- base -- when you get from the base and you're not having to spend much more money for it, it is really good margin barrels.

Now on the capital spend rate, in the Upstream we're very close to our typical spend profile for the year. We are almost dead on our target, when you look at the last four years of history on how we would spend our money.

So my expectations, we will spend our capital. I think there is even a chance that we will be a little bit higher on spend in the Upstream than what we had said initially. Not significantly, but we've added a few opportunities that we mentioned this morning that will require some monies in 2010. And that will likely push our capital spend for the year slightly above what we told you in March.

DOUG LEGGATE: Got it, thank you. Can I risk a follow-up for Pat? I guess it's a related, but also an adjacent question. The share buyback program has been reloaded to an unlimited number, it looks like. And with the amount of cash on the balance sheet, I'm curious as to why no share buybacks in Q3.

And if you could also address the tax rate, which looked a little light for this quarter. And I will leave it there. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. Good questions. On the share repurchases, we were facing the expiration of the three-year program. And while -- and we indicated in the press release that we are not looking to inaugurate one at this point in time, we wanted to retain the flexibility for having that option on a go forward basis.

Basically, George, I think answered your question about why not inaugurating it now, because he mentioned about having a higher spend profile -- a typical higher second half spend profile in C&E. And that's really what's coloring our view right now.

On the effective tax rate, it's -- I think the best way to look at this is on a year-to-date basis And foreign exchange was over or about half of the variance in the year-to-date 2010 versus year-to-date 2009 time period. So foreign exchange comes through. It's balance sheet translation; it is not cash effect. It is not tax affected either. So when you have big swings in foreign-exchange, you get big swings in your effective tax rate.

The other activity going on there really relates to just jurisdictional changes.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay, Pat. Would you give us a stab at a run rate perhaps for the underlying tax rate?

PAT YARRINGTON: You know, I think the best way to look at it is over a long period of time. We've been a little bit lower this year than we were in 2009, so maybe on average for 2010 we may be a little bit lower. But it's not an area I want to get into predicting.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right, thanks for answering my questions. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good Morning everybody. My first question is on Wheatstone. With 80% of the gas under contract, are you targeting a higher percentage, closer to 90%. For Gorgon, is there any sell down interest in the project contemplated? And with the HOAs closer to done, can you discuss other hurdles for the project here before you reach FID in 2011? And are you trending ahead of schedule, that's the way it looked to me?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: There was a couple of questions there where I thought -- I wasn't sure all of them were Wheatstone or it sounded like it was a Gorgon question, but -- I think when I answer it, if I don't come back and redirect then I would be happy to get clarification.

Our target on Wheatstone on gas, on a long-term basis sales, is 90%; just like what we did in Gorgon. We believe 90% gives us the flexibility to deal with all or any operational issues and meet our contractual requirements. So we are 80% at Wheatstone. We are very, very close. That gives us a lot of confidence that we can move forward.

What I'm telling you then is the market -- where we stand in the market it will not be the constraint going forward on Wheatstone. So we've fulfilled predominantly our goals on getting gas sold into the long-term market. Now these are HOAs. They only become sales and purchase agreements when we reach FID.

I believe the project is moving forward in the FEED process, very much on schedule. We would like to accelerate it if it's possible. We will not accelerate it, though, unless it is ready. It's back to the discipline -- being ready to execute is absolutely critical for all these big projects.

A big hurdle for us is environmental permit. Just like environmental permits were needed on Gorgon, we must have those in place on Wheatstone. We've made good progress on the land tenure piece of it good where the plant would be located. So overall we're very, very pleased with our progress. We are clicking off all the milestones that we need to. And we're pushing to move it forward as quickly as we can, but once again, with all the discipline in being able to execute.

EVAN CALIO: That's great. My second question. Production has been higher yet, I was curious if you give us more color on the driver of $120 million incremental international OpEx, is that cost inflation and maintenance or turnaround expense? And does that impact any go forward thoughts?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think most of it is related to our turnarounds. We had big turnarounds at Athabasca. We had big turnarounds at the KTL units in -- that's our standard -- that's a lot of our facilities in Tengiz. So I think it's heavily related to that.

Our second and third quarters typically are our biggest quarters on turnarounds; quarters one and quarters four are not. That's generally related to weather. It's a better time for us typically to do our turnarounds in quarters two and three. So I think that explains most of it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Edward Westlake, Credit Suisse.

EDWARD WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: George, a couple of Upstream questions. On the accident, you said you believed it's preventable. So you could continue drilling and the technical regulations are all within Chevron's -- already included.

So I guess the question is there anything that you're hearing out of Washington that could change your view that once the moratorium is over that you could go back into the Gulf? I'm thinking requirements to drill relief wells or changes to BOPs?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Once again, I hate to speculate on what the requirements could be. The recommendations made by two of the DOI from the task force -- from the industry task force on improving drilling operations -- once again, we do most all of those practices already. We don't know what's going to come out from the government as a requirement, and until we know that, it's really hard to speak beyond that.

Drilling and starting a second -- or starting a relief well when you're drilling the first well, we don't support. We think it increases risk. You're exposing yourself to two drilling operations at once. So we, frankly, from a risk profile and a probability basis don't understand that concept. We don't think it makes sense.

Once again, we can't and I don't think we should speculate on what's going to come out. We've made recommendations. We believe the bar should be raised for everyone in the industry and we need to have assurances. And I think the government and the public should have assurances that all operations in the industry are being done safely.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: And then a follow-up back to Australia. You've got, obviously, success in your own exploration assets, and you've got two large LNG projects that could be expanded. What's your thoughts in terms of accepting third-party gas, because obviously the industry is discovering gas near your own facilities as well?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: In the case of Gorgon, we really don't think we have any additional land availability to build more trains on Barrow Island to accept any gas beyond what the Gorgon partnership will be able to develop. We believe there can be five trains put on Barrow Island. We believe at this point that -- at least I believe we have enough gas already for the fourth train. I didn't say I had all the partners onboard on that, but I believe that.

And we still have exploration opportunities in the Gorgon partnership. On Wheatstone, I'll take you back and remind everyone that we have already brought third-party gas into that development; that's Apache and KUFPEC and their discoveries. They will be a part of Wheatstone development. They have a 25% working interest in the plant there. So in these first two trains we have already bought third-party gas.

We see Wheatstone as a hub. It's a hub to bring in our gas and other industry gas. We've set the commercial arrangements in a way to attract third-party gas. We believe that we have enough area on the site for up to six trains. So we have, I think, a view that we will make this a hub with our gas and other's gas, and make it attractive.

Edward Westlake Thank you. Very clear.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you very much. Good morning Pat, Jeanette, George. George, you mentioned Romania and Canada unconventional gas acreage. But generally speaking you are underweight, I guess, in the unconventional gas, in effect, oil scene, particularly in the lower 48.

Could you just talk a little bit about whether this is sort of you dabbling, or how attractive you find the overall theme relative to the rest of your portfolio? Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We like unconventional gas where we can make reasonable returns and I have almost would characterize it simply as that. We've got a position in the Piceance in the United States, a position in the Haynesville in East Texas. We've drilled wells there. We know how to get the gas out of the ground efficiently. We know how to drill the wells. So we understand it very well.

We would have -- these are good positions. They don't presently make development sense because the gas price and the market conditions, with oversupply in the U.S., just doesn't make it attractive.

Those developments -- our own developments that we presently hold with -- and once again on both of these, we don't have a royalty we have to pay in the Piceance. And these are held by production acreage in East Texas. So what we really need is a market that says -- that needs the gas, and then we think there will be very good returns there.

We don't see in the U.S., in most cases, an opportunity to pay the land rentals, the royalty rates that you see in the U.S. and make a competitive investment. That's why we're looking outside the United States to apply the same technology to look for an organic exploration type development opportunity that we can then, with low entry cost, develop and supply gas to market in those locations.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you, George, that's clear. And Pat, if I could, to you, I think you pretty clearly stated that you didn't buy back -- or you decided not to buy back in Q3 because you expect to step up in CapEx.

We're forecasting you to have another couple of billion dollars of free cash flow in Q3. Would it be reasonable then to expect, knowing your priorities regarding AA rating and everything else, that you would be buying back shares by Q4, assuming our forecast of the excess cash flow is correct for Q3? Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Paul I'll leave you to do the forecasting. I'm not going to commit here to a fourth-quarter share repurchase program. I will tell you that -- and we will look at a whole host of things -- the capital program, industry cost, what is happening in the global economic environment, what's happening to Downstream margins. We'll look across the whole gamut of variables that we try to manage here. And when we see ourselves in a position, where after the dividend grows and a good strong capital program and keeping the balance sheet, if we see ourselves in a position where we've got surplus cash being generated for a reasonably longer-term period of time, that's when we will look to reinstate a share repurchase program.

PAUL SANKEY: So we shouldn't characterize the cash build as a war chest then?

PAT YARRINGTON: No, I wouldn't characterize the cash build as anything other than a cash build.

PAUL SANKEY: Thanks, Pat. Okay, I understand; it's very clear. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark Capital.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK CAPITAL: Good morning. I had a couple of questions for George, if I could, please. First, with respect to the contracts on Gorgon and the Heads of Agreement, George, on Wheatstone, can you give me a rough idea what percentage of those agreements are crude linked in terms of the price structure?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: My memory is all are price linked to crude. We've indexed everything to crude. And I'll give you a little more piece on what we have said consistently -- at very close to oil parity.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, second question relates to the U.S. liquids production number, which, at least to me, even taking into consideration the Perdido delays, looks awfully weak. Is Blind Faith declining or is there some other reason that we're seeing the fall off there versus the first quarter, in particular, being fairly sharp?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Yes, the fall off in the second quarter is heavily related to Hurricane Alex disruption. It impacted our Gulf of Mexico operations by about 20,000 barrels per day in the second quarter.

MARK GILMAN: Barrels per day or a barrel equivalents per day, George?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Barrel equivalents, but it's heavily barrels -- particularly anything in the deepwater. The deepwater piece is Tahiti, Blind Faith, all of those projects, once again are predominantly oil.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, Blind Faith holding plateau?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, Blind Faith is producing -- it is coming down. It is coming down as expected. It's in line with what we planned and what we forecasted.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, thanks. Just one more, George. Duri. Believe it or not, I can recall when the 12 phase steamflood was the target. You are now sanctioning a 13th phase. Is there something new there that you have identified? And is there the potential for a whole another set of phases along the lines of the program that was in place some years ago?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I would characterize this as more just a further extension to the north -- the north end of the field and we probably will see maybe one -- at least one more area extension. We're looking at another area that we can develop. You always see these big fields get a little bit bigger, and you drill some more wells, and you find the reservoir looks good, at least good enough to take the next step and do the steam operation. That's what's happening here.

Area 12 has been very successful, so it gives us a lot of confidence in stepping out to Area 13. I hope I come back in another year or two and talk about 14.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, George, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Good morning everyone. George, if we're looking at over the last several years, I think it seems like there is a change in view on the oil sands within Chevron. I think at one point you guys are pretty excited, snapped up a lot of land position, and then that has been relatively quiet since then, with the exception of the ASOP development, the upgrade, the expansion.

Can you share with us what's your view on the oil sand? Do you think that stacking up they are not looking that great comparing to the rest of your portfolio, so you're not too interested in dramatically expanding your exposure, or that this is an area that you guys are looking at?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, I think actually our view on oil sands has been pretty consistent. We did, through some crown lease acquisitions, obtain some acreage up there and assessed it for in situ steaming -- steam operations. But we've done that work, and our view of the oil sands all along has been that it's the part of the portfolio, or the industry portfolio, that sets almost the marginal price.

It is high cost. We have other opportunities that supersede it. We do expect that we'll be back into what we obtained down the road. It's at Ells River. We've done the assessment and we fit it into the queue. It just sits at the back of the queue in recognition of other opportunities in front of it.

And I would characterize all the oil sands projects that way. They are a little bit narrower in margin and they need higher prices to make them economic.

PAUL CHENG: George, since earlier you're talking about doing the steamflooding, can you give us an update on how is the pilot steamflooding project in the neutral zone?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Yes, in the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait we've had the steamflood pilot there in operation for about a year now. We are seeing some temperature climb in the reservoirs. We can see that in our observation wells. It's encouraging. It's early. We expect within the next 18 months to have a pretty good read on the response -- the reservoir response. So I think we're about 18 months away from really telling you something that is really meaningful.

I'll just end and say, we're encouraged. We're encouraged by what we are seeing on temperature response. And, of course, we're encouraged because there is 12 plus billion barrels of oil in place that we're looking at there.

PAUL CHENG: Two final questions. One, there is again there having some rumor coming out talking about the Kazakhstan government is going to slap Tengiz with the export tax. This is probably ten times in the last six or seven years. I'm wondering is there any official communication between you guys and Kazakhstan government on that?

The last question is that, if we look in the Gulf of Mexico, Jack/St. Malo, the Big Foot look like I think those probably target the startup maybe some time in the 2014, 2015. If the memorandum [moratorium] of the drilling ban expands beyond November, how long that the drilling ban extend -- up to what day you will start to see there is a risk on those startup phase? Thank you.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: First let me talk about Tengiz and statements out there. I'm going to cover a couple of items. You have seen a media statement about the mining allotment. The mining allotment for us is very clear in our contract. We have all rights of all subsalt, everything below the salt in the Tengiz geographical area, we have rights to that -- we have contractual rights. It's very straightforward in our contract.

The media statement -- that the media words you've seen out there on the export customs duty, there is reports of that. I will tell you we've had some communication with the government on that point. Once again, our contract I think is very straightforward on custom duties like that. They would be offsetable. And I'll just leave that piece of it at that point -- at this point.

I had two other things related to Tengiz. First off, operationally Tengiz is running extremely well. We are very, very happy with SGI/SG performance and the existing facilities.

Then maybe one last point. Our relationship -- our long-term relationship with the government of Kazakhstan, with our partners there has been very good. We've been there 18 years. We've had disagreements that we've always worked through very well. I think it translates to our good performance. As a group we've done well. That doesn't mean we haven't had times where we had discussions and had to work through things.

And I believe we will see the same thing here. Our relationships will carry us. Our performance for these 18 years, I think, really underscores that we can work there and that we can work together very well with the government and our partners.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you. George, how about in the Gulf of Mexico?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Sorry, when you all give me these multiple questions, at it is sometimes --.

PAUL CHENG: Sorry about that.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: No problem. I would tell you if the moratorium is still held, as we -- is still on us post November or December it will start impacting the schedule. We cannot move forward on these projects without knowing clearly what the expectations are.

So at some point it's going to start pushing the startup date of these projects. We think we're in pretty good shape up until November. We've done FEED work. We have have positioned ourselves with bid on contracts. So we've done all the engineering and preparatory work to be able to move forward into execution.

If this keeps sliding out in the unknowns, it will delay the projects. And, frankly, for not only us, but for government and others, it will impact revenue streams, crude availability. These are all very large projects. Remember, Jack/St. Malo is roughly 120,000 to 150,000 barrels a day oil development, so very significant projects.

PAUL CHENG: Very good. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good Morning. Can you give us a little bit of an update on exploration, any major discoveries in the second quarter, more significant ones, what your plans are for the third quarter here and the fourth quarter?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Okay, I tried to give a little bit of that in my prepared statements, so I'll try to take that and then maybe expand a little bit. We are -- and I'll start off at the impacts, our program in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico has been impacted significantly.

We were on the Buckskin appraisal well, and that was a very significant well for us. We wanted that one drilled where we could accelerate potential development of that prospect. We really think it's that good that that appraisal well would define an awful lot of the go forward.

We had three other deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico that we wanted to drill. We were actually on the Moccasin well when the suspension of operations occurred. We had two other Deepwater Gulf of Mexico wells, very large prospects, that have now been delayed.

So from that perspective, a big part of our program in exploration was these impact greater than 100 million barrel resource size prospects. Those have been eliminated from the program this year. So that's worrying; that's delaying, and -- but we don't have any choice. That's where we are on that.

Elsewhere in the world, our other deepwater drilling is moving forward, and other exploration wells around the world are moving forward. We're drilling the Lona well up in the East Coast of Canada. That well spudded shortly after the moratorium and after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico started. So that well is moving -- getting closer to our objectives section. We've made good progress there. I hope by the fourth quarter or third quarter call, we will be able to tell you more there.

Successes have been strong in Australia. We're drilling a large number of wells in that focus area. We continue to have great success there. We're focused on Australia in the Carnarvon Basin. Because it -- not only are the discoveries significant, if they -- if we have those discoveries then they also move quickly to expansions of the LNG projects that we're doing there.

So we have strong focus there. We're putting a lot of money into Australia to try to get to the next step on the expansions of those projects. We've got a well that we'll be drilling West of Shetlands in the second half. Another significant well -- we call it Lagavulin.

So we've got several other high-impact wells. But bottom line, the scale of our program -- exploration program has been significantly impacted this year because of the moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, great. Then just one question on the Downstream portion. Can you give me an idea of what the absolute timing effect was in the quarter in the International Downstream business? I know you gave us the quarter-over-quarter variances. I was wondering if we could get the absolute number in terms of the timing impact.

JEANETTE OURADA: It's about $100 million.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thanks for taking my question. Let me just press you a little on Kazakhstan. I appreciate the point you are making about the nature of the language of the contract, but of course, we know from a lot of places sanctity of contract is not always respected. So my question is, with Tengiz and Karachaganak both under investigation this year within just a few months, is it your sense that Kazakhstan might be becoming just a more hostile place for Western operators to do business in?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I hate to read into that far. We've had disagreements in the past. We've been there, in the case of TCO, 18 years. We've worked through differences. We have had a very positive relationship with the government. So I do -- I am very confident that we will move through this issue.

I do look at Karachaganak, though we are in both of those ventures, I look at them somewhat differently. I do believe that the claims in the case of Karachaganak, some of the claims that the government is making are things that we've got to deal with in the sense of over expenditures on projects, as an example.

We are in discussions and negotiations, trying to get to a rational solution there that is appropriate, that recognizes what the issues are from the government side and the issues from the partnership side. So I do, from my perspective, see a difference. I see contractual differences and I see issue differences.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: I appreciate the color on that. Let me turn quickly to your European shale gas presence. I guess you have about 1 million acres in the Silurian and in Poland. And then, of course you, just added Romania. What do you need to see to bring that to full-scale commercialization, and realistically when might be the timetable for doing that?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, the process is going to be a standard process that we use in our exploration. We will go in and shoot seismic. We'll use this to define the areas of interest better. Then we will go in and drill wells. We'll understand the shale. We will frac the shale. We'll actually do a fracture test there. And we'll put the gas on production, where we can understand rates.

So it's normal process. The first work with regards to seismic we should be doing -- we will be doing seismic in Poland this year and next year and I expect to be in Poland sometime next year also to drilling the first wells. Then after we drill a few wells, I think we'll have a better idea of the follow-on timing.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: I appreciate that.

OPERATOR: Jacques Rousseau, RBC Capital.

JACQUES ROUSSEAU, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL: Good morning. Most of my questions have been answered, but just one question from your presentation. On page 14, where you talked about the deepwater rigs on standby, do you still have to pay the full rate for them or was there some renegotiation of the contracts there? Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, largely -- I think it's best to assume that it's largely the full rate. There's a little bit of a discount, but it's not a material discount.

JACQUES ROUSSEAU: Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, I think that --.

JEANETTE OURADA: We've got one more question in the queue. We'll take it if it's a quick question.

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, SG Americas Securities.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SG AMERICAS SECURITIES: Three quick ones. How much are you spending overall, George, on unconventional resource activities this year?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Right off hand, I couldn't tell you. It's a combination of lease acquisition. And I probably, frankly, would be very reluctant to tell you exactly that, because you can figure out the acquisition cost, and everyone else could figure out acquisition cost. Maybe that's something I can discuss by the time we get there in March at our March meeting. And we'll portray it in a way that we're not disclosing information that I don't want to, but also give you an idea of how big a bag of money it takes to do what we want to do.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, next one. In Canada are you in the Horn River, is that the shale gas?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We're not disclosing the location at this point in time.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, that's fine. Last one for me, obviously, with the moratorium in the U.S. your exploration expenses have been running a little bit low versus history. Will the second quarter rate continue going forward?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I wish I knew the outcome of wells, then I would only drill (multiple speakers).

JOHN HERRLIN: Well, true, but I'm just thinking in terms of this risk profile.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: It's -- the Australia side, the wells we've drilled -- we drill in Australia, we continue to have better performance on the risk side than what we come in prior to spudding the well. But it is so hard to forecast that.

JOHN HERRLIN: George, I was just asking U.S.; I wasn't asking globally.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: U.S., it's going to make a huge impact. I'm sorry I misunderstood your question. In the U.S., we're just not going to have any wells drilled, it looks like, this year.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Thanks for the clarification.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, I think then we will close off here now. First of all, let me just say I appreciate very much your interest in the Company. I appreciate everyone's participation on the call today. And I especially want to thank the analysts on behalf of all the participants for their questions during this morning's session. Thanks very much. Goodbye for now.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's second quarter 2010 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i3251 : Mining/Oil/Gas Field Machinery | i1300013 : Natural Gas Exploration | iindstrls : Industrials | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | pol : Poland | cana : Canada | fpoly : French Polynesia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | pacisz : Pacific Islands | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100813e67u0028w
  


 HD
 Q1  2010  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,011 words
   PD
30 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's first quarter 2010 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

   TD
PAT YARRINGTON, VP, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Good morning. Thanks, Sean, very much. Welcome to Chevron's first quarter earnings conference call and webcast. Jeanette Ourada, General Manager, Investor Relations, is on the call with me.

Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2010. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide two.

Slide three provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's first quarter earnings were $4.6 billion, or $2.27 per diluted share. Our first quarter 2010 earnings increased about 150% compared with the first quarter of 2009. Our Upstream business benefited from higher crude oil prices and higher production.

Net oil equivalent production was up about 5% from a year ago, due mainly to the ramp-up of major capital projects. Downstream earnings were lower, reflecting the absence of 2009 gains on asset sales, as well as 2010 charges related to previously announced employee reductions.

First quarter 2010 earnings rose 48% compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, which Jeanette will discuss shortly in more detail.

Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was about 13%. The debt ratio dropped below 10% at the end of the quarter.

And finally, we announced on Wednesday that Chevron's Board of Directors approved a $0.04 per share, or 5.9% increase, in the common stock quarterly dividend. This follows only nine months after the previous quarterly increase, which was in the third quarter of 2009.

Turning to slide four, I'll now compare results of first quarter 2010 with the fourth quarter of 2009. As a reminder, our earnings release compares first quarter 2010 with the same quarter a year ago.

First quarter earnings were about $1.5 billion higher than the fourth quarter. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations, as well as lower operating expenses, benefited the Company's worldwide Upstream results.

Downstream earnings were also higher, mostly the result of improved refining margins across all regions and the absence of unfavorable fourth quarter inventory effects. The variance in the Other bar reflects lower corporate charges.

Earnings in the first quarter included charges of $175 million associated with employee reductions in the Downstream businesses and corporate staff.

As I alluded to in our fourth quarter earnings call, we have some done some resegmentation of reported earnings, and I would like to go through those changes with you now.

Starting this year, both our Chemicals businesses, meaning Oronite Additives and our Chevron Philips Chemicals joint-venture, report to Mike Wirth. Their performance results are now included in the Downstream business segment.

In addition, certain Upstream enabling operations, primarily the Escravos gas-to-liquids project and major international export pipelines, have been reclassified from the Downstream segment to the Upstream segment. These Upstream-enabling assets are fundamental to the success and economics of their related Upstream operations. In our judgment, the revised segmentation more appropriately aligns current and future capital allocation decisions with segment performance results and management oversight responsibilities within the Company.

Prior period information has been conformed accordingly, and for transparency, we have footnoted the slides for each impacted segment to provide earnings for the comparable periods using the previous reporting methodology.

Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons for each of the business segments. Jeanette?

JEANETTE OURADA, GM, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. On slide five, our U.S. Upstream earnings for the first quarter were $90 million higher than the fourth quarter's results. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $175 million. Chevron's average U.S. crude oil realization was up about $3.00 per barrel between consecutive quarters, slightly more than the increase in the average spot price of West Texas Intermediate.

Natural gas realizations increased 25% between quarters, in line with Henry Hub spot prices, and represented about half of the positive variance. Lower production volumes decreased earnings by $80 million between periods. This was primarily due to the absence of a favorable royalty settlement recognized in the prior quarter.

The Other bar is comprised of a number of offsetting items.

Turning to slide six, International Upstream earnings were up about $470 million compared with the fourth quarter. Higher oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $145 million. Average realizations for liquids rose 2%, in line with the increase in Brent spot prices.

Natural gas realizations were also higher in the first quarter, contributing about $100 million to earnings. This was in part due to retroactive price settlements on long-term natural gas contracts.

Operating expenses were down $215 million from the fourth quarter. The reduction in Opex reflects small reductions across multiple categories and operations. The Other bar represents an increase of $113 million, and includes various unrelated components, the largest being a favorable variance in tax items.

Slide seven summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production. Production remained strong in the first quarter and increased 5000 barrels per day. Higher prices reduced volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts by an estimated 5,000 barrels per day. WTI prices averaged $79 per barrel in the first quarter versus $76 per barrel in the fourth quarter.

For the first quarter, each dollar increase in WTI resulted in an 1,800 barrel per day volume reduction. This is in line with the 2009 average rate of roughly 1,500 barrels per day per dollar change in WTI.

Base business production decreased 1%, or roughly 27,000 barrels per day between quarters. Our sustained focus on reliability and system optimization has yielded favorable gains and minimized declines to date.

In addition, as shown in the green bar, incremental production from major capital projects benefited first quarter production by 37,000 barrels per day. Primary drivers were ongoing de-bottlenecking efforts at Tengiz in Kazakhstan and the continued ramp-up of major capital projects, most notably add at Frade in Brazil and Tombua-Landana and Mafumeira Norte in Angola, where new production wells came online.

At this time, it is too early to update our full year production outlook of 2.73 million barrels per day. We have several major turnarounds scheduled for the second and third quarters, and storm effects may come into play later in the year.

We are very pleased with the first quarter production levels and intend to provide another update at the second quarter earnings call.

Turning to slide eight, U.S. Downstream results increased more than $400 million in the first quarter as market conditions improved and our refineries ran well. Indicator margins were up, resulting in a $115 million positive variance.

Refining margins strengthened from depressed fourth quarter levels in both the Gulf Coast and West Coast, with Gulf Coast margins increasing almost 50% between periods. Heavy refinery maintenance contributed to the improvement in the quarter.

Operating expenses were $145 million lower between periods, in part due to the absence of expenses associated with the fourth quarter planned shutdown at the El Segundo refinery and a non-recurring charge recorded in the fourth quarter related to the exit of certain U.S. East Coast markets.

We recorded a $50 million in severance charge in the first quarter related to previously announced employee reductions.

Chemicals' results were $60 million higher, mainly due to improved margins for olefins and aromatics. Multiple components made up the Other bar, including favorable tax and trading variances and a small asset sale gain.

On slide nine, International Downstream operations also improved significantly, increasing by about $450 million from the fourth quarter's results. Higher realized margins improved earnings by $345 million between quarters. This was particularly evident in the Asia-Pacific region, where Singapore cracking margins rose by almost 160%. As in the U.S., we recorded a severance charge of $100 million related to previously announced workforce reductions for our international operations.

Timing effects resulted in $170 million positive variance between quarters, primarily due to the absence of negative inventory effects recognized in the fourth quarter. The Other bar was a small net benefit for the quarter, reflecting lower operating expense and higher shipping and Chemical results. Partially offsetting were unfavorable foreign exchange effects.

Slide 10 covers All Other. First quarter net charges were $368 million compared to a net $418 million charge in the fourth quarter. The $50 million decrease between quarters is mostly due to favorable variances in tax items and other corporate charges. A $25 million average charge related to workforce reductions was recognized in the first quarter.

Our quarterly guidance range of $250 million to $350 million for net charges in the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.

Pat will now summarize our operational and strategic progress. Pat?

PAT YARRINGTON: Ok, turning now to slide 11, let's start with our operational performance so far in 2010, where we've had excellent performance in safety, reliability and production efficiency.

Following up on a record year of safety, we are off to an even better start here in 2010. Our refinery network continued to operate reliably, and upstream production efficiency continued to climb, as evidenced by our strong production volumes.

Also, our diligence in cost management is continuing to yield positive results. Excluding one-time employee severance charges recognized in the first quarter, operating and SG&A expenses were flat between comparable year-to-date periods, sustaining the gains that we realized in 2009. This is against a backdrop of a 5% production increase and a doubling of crude prices across the comparable first quarter period. We are pleased with the results from our ongoing cost management efforts.

In the Upstream, Perdido reached first oil at the end of March. This is the first commercial production from the Lower Tertiary Trend in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Full facility capacity is 130,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.

In March, we announced that the Discoverer Inspiration, an ultra-deepwater drill ship, commenced operations in the Gulf of Mexico. This is the second state-of-the-art vessel commissioned by Chevron in the last year. Both vessels are designed to Chevron's specifications and will work on a strong queue of deepwater opportunities.

Also in the Gulf of Mexico, we were the apparent successful bidder in a recent lease sale, capturing 19 blocks in the deepwater and 27 blocks in the shelf. Selectively growing our leading position in this very important basin will help advance our robust portfolio of projects.

In the Downstream, we continued to progress our restructuring plans. Our new organizational structure has been finalized, and we are in the process of filling key positions. We're on track to achieve our 2010 targeted year-end workforce reduction of 2,000 employees. We are also on schedule to complete the previously announced U.S. East Coast market exit. Other announced market reviews are underway, and we will provide further updates as appropriate.

And finally, we generated very strong cash flow in the quarter, totaling $2.5 billion, after paying the dividend and funding our capital program. Cash generation from the major capital projects started up in the last two years is proving to be very robust.

In addition, based on preliminary results, our Upstream portfolio's earnings per barrel continued to outpace our competitors, giving us the leading position among our peer group for the last three quarters, and the gap has widened here in 2010.

At the end of the quarter, net debt is once again negative, as our cash balances exceed our debt levels. Net debt is back to year-end 2008 levels. And since 2008, we have grown Upstream volumes by an impressive 10%. This growth was self-funded, and we simultaneously weathered the low point in the commodity cycle, while also growing our dividend.

We are executing our strategies well and they are paying off, and it's our intention to, and we are confident that we can, maintain this strong performance momentum.

So that concludes our prepared remarks, and I would now like to open it up for your questions. Sean, please open up the lines. Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Doug Terreson, ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI: Good morning, Pat and Jeanette. So today, there's commentary regarding a ban on drilling new areas in the United States, although it is not really clear to me exactly what that means. And on this point, with Chevron being one of the more proficient explorers in the Gulf in recent years, and I'm pretty sure pretty close to the BP situation, I wanted to see if you could provide any insight into this information, that is if you have any, and how it changes your exploration plan, if at all.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right, Doug, as you know, this is breaking news. And let me just say that, first of all, our operations in the Gulf to date have not been impacted by this incident. We do see the press releases and the media reports this morning that say that existing lease sales that are currently planned will go ahead. We have no information to the contrary. We haven't heard anything kind of yes or no on that.

We are certain that there will be a full investigation, and that a root cause analysis will be done and that it will be widely shared. And beyond that, we are not really in a position to go much further with that.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. I wasn't sure either way. One more question. You guys have obviously done a really good job on cost productivity during the past couple of years, and I think your operating expenses were lower by 15% last year alone.

And on this point, on slide eight, you guys talk about how -- well, it appears as if you may have already captured around one-third of the $400 million in non-fuel savings and refining that you talked about at the analyst meeting. So my question is whether or not this is the correct way to think about it, or whether, after normalizing for El Segundo and the one other item that I think Jeanette mentioned, that progress on the cost objective is different. So can you provide color on this item? Is this the correct way to think about the objective?

JEANETTE OURADA: Doug, I think a big piece of the improvement you see is we are coming off of a high fourth quarter expense range. So I wouldn't -- that is more, I think, activity driven. I wouldn't contribute it to the refining goals that we set for ourselves in March.

DOUG TERRESON: And that refers to both of those items that you highlighted on the call?

PAT YARRINGTON: In terms of operating expenses here?

DOUG TERRESON: Yes.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. We talked about the absence of the planned El Segundo refinery shutdown that occurred in the fourth quarter. So relative to first quarter, you've got a variance there, a positive variance there.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.

PAT YARRINGTON: And we also talked about -- we took expenses associated with the exit of certain U.S. East Coast markets in the fourth quarter. Don't have those again.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. No, I follow that. I just wanted to make sure that was the bulk of the number. Okay. That clarifies it. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everybody. You guys had another great quarter here. I have a question on the balance sheet and your comments, your positive $3 billion free cash flow in the quarter driving an increase in your cash balance. Can you generally discuss at what cash levels Chevron considers re-initiating a buyback or, conversely, looks to increase Capex spend on the year? And I have a second question.

PAT YARRINGTON: No. Yes, it's a great question. I think discussing our cash priorities is always very important. Really, we look at this -- in terms of our uses of cash, the priorities are to increase the dividend, sustain and increase the dividend. We did that. We did it only nine months, not a year after the previous increase.

We then fund C&E. We've got a good opportunity set currently underway and a good opportunity set ahead of us, so a big queue of attractive projects. We also look to keep our balance sheet healthy so that we can weather commodity price downturns, margin downturns and also keep our flexibility for future opportunities.

We look at funding our pension plans, as appropriate. And it's only after we've done all of those factors and sort of met those sort of hurdles that we look at share repurchases.

So on a go-forward basis, in order to re-inaugurate or reinstitute the share repurchase program, we're going to have to see some cash in excess of our ongoing operating requirements, ongoing working capital requirements, some cash balances that will again allow us to weather any sort of downturn in margins and prices.

We're going to have to see what I would call sustained positive surplus cash generation going forward, so our outlook would have to suggest that.

And I think we are going to have to have confidence in our ability to be able to sustain a meaningful share repurchase program. We don't want to be in a position of sort of turning this on and off.

And while I'm very pleased with our current balance sheet position and the cash generation from our projects, I'm not in a position to say that I see all of those criteria exactly being met. I think we have a great track record, frankly, doing this balance on uses of cash quite well. I think our shareholders have been well-rewarded with the choices that we've made here. And our intent is to keep making these wise choices going forward.

EVAN CALIO: That's great. Thanks for the color there. My second question is a little bit on an Ecuador update. I know you've had a lot of progress in the recent quarter. You've won the Southern District on the challenge to proceed in the Hague, and you were awarded the $700 million subject to a tax determination against Ecuador in an unrelated matter.

And I guess I had a few specific questions of what is the path forward, in terms of collecting on the award against Ecuador? And any idea on maybe timing on your recent motion to strike the expert report in the environmental matter in Lago Agrio? And maybe any interplay between the state level actions and the environmental case would be helpful.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, well, let me just take them here, hopefully one at a time, and see if I can knock those off. In terms of the international arbitration ruling -- and for those of you who maybe aren't quite familiar with that, this is where the International Court ruled in favor of Chevron for approximately $700 million in damages and interest related to a long-standing set of commercial claims. And they found that the Ecuador court had violated international law, basically through delays in rulings on certain disputes between Texaco and the Ecuadorian government.

The case is separate from the Lago Agrio case. In terms of next steps about collecting on that, I wouldn't put that in any of your models anytime soon here. There is quite a degree of additional dialogue that needs to go on about not only the amount of the money, the interest, the taxation associated, the proper tax rate to apply to that. So I think you need to think of that as being still covered with a great deal of uncertainty.

The Ecuadorian government has said that they are going to seek annulment of the award, but we don't -- they haven't identified any basis upon which they can do that.

In terms of the local court proceedings, there really hasn't been a significant change in timing or activity associated here. We did have the -- conflict of interest was reported or identified, basically, with Mr. Cabrera. He is the individual who was appointed by the local court to make the remediation assessment, and it has been found out that he has an ownership position in a remediation company that stands to benefit financially from any judgment against Chevron. So he's got an obvious conflict of interest, and he didn't make that known to the court. We've asked the court to reject his work. The court denied that request.

And then we also have had one of the technical experts for the plaintiff has testified that his reports were -- or that reports were submitted to the local court under his signature, but they were not his report. And he has said that he never concluded that the sites posed a risk to human health or the environment.

So we've had a number of positive developments, but all that being said, I don't think it changes some of the fundamentals about there is still a great deal of uncertainty out there. While the court has proceeded -- or finished with a lot of its procedural components, I think we still have to wait and see what the next steps are going to be.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, great. I appreciate that.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks and Good morning, Pat and Jeanette. I don't know if you are going to answer this one terribly easy, but we monitor -- I guess you'd call it your Upstream capture rates, which is looking at your kind of worldwide oil and gas prices weighted by your volumes and your net income. And for quite a while, it was a fairly stable relationship. The last couple quarters, last year, it fell out of bed a little bit.

And this quarter and last quarter, this quarter in particular, it has been pretty stellar. It's a terrific result, and particularly in the International Upstream.

So my question is, is there something changing there -- this is on an earnings basis, obviously, so I'm thinking is there something changing in the DD&A level? Was there a tax benefit that was particular to this quarter? Obviously, your tax rate was a little lower. If you could just give some color as to whether or not this is something that might actually be sustainable. Because, as I say, it was a pretty terrific capture rate this quarter.

JEANETTE OURADA: I don't have your numbers in front of me, Doug, but for DD&A, we were -- compared to fourth quarter, DD&A was essentially flat. There really wasn't anything too unusual going on in DD&A.

Compared to first quarter 2009, DD&A was up 7%, but our production over the time period was up 5%. So that was really what was driving that. So nothing terribly unusual.

DOUG LEGGATE: What about on the tax line?

PAT YARRINGTON: I was just going to follow up on the tax component. I don't know if that is what you were going to ask here. But just on taxes, we did see a lower effective tax rate in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter, and also compared to last year's first quarter. And that really -- and both periods reflect just jurisdictional changes, not only within the Upstream country-by-country analysis, but also between Upstream and Downstream.

And then also, for example, in the International sector, we did -- there was a change, a reduction in Canadian corporate tax rate that applied in the first quarter, for example, which was baked in there.

DOUG LEGGATE: So would it be -- guidance is not something you normally give on tax, but should we expect that the tax rate is going to be kind of lower than your legacy run rate, given that change?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think it is too early to kind of give that sort of a forward indication. Taxes are really very lumpy, and it really is dependent upon earnings profiles across the jurisdictions.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. A second one, if I can squeeze it in. On the major projects that you brought onstream -- obviously, a lot of these were liquids-rich, or gas to liquids heavy. Where are we in terms of the growth in those projects now? Are they now at plateau? I guess Perdido is probably not, but in terms of the other major projects you brought on last year, are they all now at sort of full rate? And if you could give some color, that would be great.

PAT YARRINGTON: I think largely the answer to that broadly would be yes. I mean, Perdido just came on at the very tail end of this quarter here. So that obviously has a ramp-up profile that is much more extensive; it will take quite some time.

Tengiz reliability has been very strong, and Tengiz is currently producing around 600,000 barrels a day, which is just a tremendous accomplishment for the quarter.

We mentioned Mafumeira Norte. It's hit peak production here at 42,000 barrels a day. And Frade, Frade continues to ramp up, and we are very pleased with the progress that we've seen here, particularly most recently. Current production is about 60,000 barrels a day from five wells.

So I think there will be continued -- some continued ramp, but in the broad answer, I think we have seen the vast majority of the ramp-up.

DOUG LEGGATE: Got it. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: Thank you and good morning. Nice inflection point in terms of the earnings power of the Downstream that became apparent during the quarter. My question is our indicator margins for the West Coast and Singapore, two areas that you have a significant exposure to, would indicate that strength was actually building in April relative to what we saw late in the first quarter and certainly for the quarter as an average. Would you be able to confirm that the margin environment you are facing in those two markets is improving and that you are able to capture those margins?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, I think our best view really right now in both those locations would be that you may have some softening going into the second quarter. Because what was driving these really related to refinery maintenance and turnaround schedules. And depending upon how those -- sorry -- depending on how those units come back on line, the extent to which they come back online, again, relative to demand, you may still have some sloppiness in the market.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, great. And a second one, if I could. The LNG market is obviously starting to swing towards the favor of the buyer versus the seller right now. Can you tell me if there has been any progress made on incremental marketing of the Wheatstone volumes that are not committed right now?

PAT YARRINGTON: Right now, we have about 60% of the Wheatstone volumes that are under HOAs or tentatively committed here. We continue to have tremendous interest on the part of prospective buyers. We'll update you as those HOAs come to fruition, but we haven't seen really any softening in interest for our particular product supplies.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, thanks very much, Pat.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, good morning. Just going back to the Deepwater Horizon disaster, I was wondering if you could just help me list the risks to Chevron from this incident. I am sure you will confirm that there is obviously no direct liability for Chevron. But some of the things that come to mind are that a potential for a suspension of leasing, I think, is coming out of the White House this morning. There is obviously the potential for a suspension of activity in the deepwater GOM. I'm thinking higher safety costs. I was wondering whether you thought that would be an impact. Perhaps even higher taxes. There is, I guess, the potential for oil movements to be disrupted. I don't know what your thoughts are on that, and whether you are thinking about, for example, supply to Pascagoula or whether or not that might be a total red herring.

And then of course, there's the overall industry risk. But if you could just kind of throw out there what you perceive to be the risks. And again, as I said, I assume you confirm there is no direct liability. That would help us begin to get our arms around this issue.

PAT YARRINGTON: Paul, you've outlined a number of the risks that I'm sure are in everybody's minds. I really can't speak to any of those at this point in time. It is really just too premature.

I would imagine -- there's tremendous interest, as we all can appreciate, tremendous interest in trying to first stop the flow of oil, make sure that we've got containment and clean-up, and then understand what has happened. I don't -- I think that we wouldn't want to prejudge or leap too quickly. I'm sure the Administration and members of Congress won't want to be doing that either. So I really just don't know how this is going to play out. It is just too early to say.

PAUL SANKEY: Have you guys ever had any kind of a similar instance yourselves?

PAT YARRINGTON: We have had an absolutely outstanding safety record, and I can't think of one here recently that comes to my mind. We've been operating globally, well, for decades, and do not have any that comes to my mind at this point in time.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes.

PAT YARRINGTON: We have an outstanding safety record.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, I understand.

PAT YARRINGTON: And this is not our incident, and we are not in any way touched by this....

PAUL SANKEY: Directly, yes.

PAT YARRINGTON: ...from an operating standpoint. We have offered assistance to BP and to the MMS and to government entities, and we've been taken up on those -- that offer. So we stand ready, just as everybody in the industry stands ready, to put collective intelligence and capabilities to work to get this handled.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, that's great, obviously. What would be the exact nature of the assistance you would give?

PAT YARRINGTON: Look, I mean, whether it's equipment, people, processes, anything that we can -- that they feel we can offer, we're happy to do it.

PAUL SANKEY: But as such, it is an offer, but with no direct -- you haven't eventually done anything as such yet.

PAT YARRINGTON: No, there have been discussions between ourselves, government agencies, BP, etc. There is -- it is a consortium of effort that is underway here. That is really all I want to -- that's really all I know and that's really all I can say about it.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, I understand, absolutely. It is just that obviously we are all trying to get our arms around this disaster and let's just hope it all works itself out.

Just a very brief follow-up. Your volume, can you just talk again about your volume target for the year? Obviously, you're chasing ahead of that. Any thoughts about -- I guess there is an implied slowdown later in the year. But if you could just update us on the very latest after a strong Q1, and I'll leave it there. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Sure. That's a good question. That's a fair question here. We had production for the quarter of 2.78 million barrels a day. It's 90,000 barrels a day ahead of our external guidance on a price-adjusted basis.

We talked about it being principally related to our base business performance, where we've had good reliability and good optimization of facilities, basically, here. So our production efficiency has been running about 3% higher than our plan.

Now, on the go-forward here, we do have a number of turnarounds that are planned in the second quarter and third quarter of the year. These would be TCO, for example, or in the North Sea, et cetera. We also can get into weather-related issues in the third quarter in particular -- second and third quarter in particular.

So while it is a very good quarter for us, and it bodes well going in, we are not in a position where we want to give an update at this point in time. We'll come back on in the second quarter call and be happy to do that for you.

PAUL SANKEY: That's great. Is it fair to say that your Q1 volumes were ahead of what you had planned in terms of when you gave the original [outlook]?

PAT YARRINGTON: Absolutely, and that is because of the reliability factors that we've gone through with you. We are just very pleased with how well all our facilities are running.

PAUL SANKEY: I understand. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks and good morning. Obviously, very interesting week. Just in terms of the Capex outlook, you've obviously got Gorgon and Wheatstone coming in, but you've got projects like Agbami, Tengiz, which are very expensive, coming out.

What sort of -- can you comment at this stage in terms of the type of Capex run rate that you would expect, not just for this year but for outer years? And is that one of the reasons perhaps why you are holding back in terms of buybacks? Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: It's a good question. Our C&E, we typically only give C&E targets out one year, and we do that for a variety of reasons. It obviously depends on commodity prices and industry costs, and we have seen and continue to see some variability in industry cost levels. So I am not going to talk to you about 2011 and 2012 or 2013 capital spending programs.

And we do have large projects coming on, Gorgon and Wheatstone; they are in the horizon certainly. But you need to keep in mind that we also are coming off of and have placed into service a number of high capital requirement projects, TCO, Agbami, et cetera. So you have somewhat of a dovetailing here between the placing in service of some historical projects that are giving us good cash flows and earnings now versus some future projects down the line.

I don't think -- if you are thinking forward here a little bit, I don't think you should think about seeing any sort of dramatic increases in C&E. But at the same time, we've talked, and I think George has been -- was pretty articulate about this at our meeting in March -- to the extent that we see economic investment opportunities. And I will talk to incremental oil development opportunity, for example, in base business.

Or if we look forward a couple of years or whenever U.S. gas prices get to be sustained at a higher level, George talked about being able to bring on developments at the Piceance and Haynesville. So at the same time, you shouldn't be surprised to see necessarily an uptick, because that will mean that we have found very good economic opportunities for incremental C&E spending.

ED WESTLAKE: And maybe a follow-on. Is there, I guess, feeling that you are too early in terms of comfort level about all of those five factors that you outlined in terms of doing the buybacks, is any of that related to some concern about the risk that Gorgon and Wheatstone Capex might end up being a little bit higher than you've currently budgeted?

PAT YARRINGTON: No, not at all really. We are very early days into the Gorgon and Wheatstone developments. On Gorgon, we've contracted for about $22 billion of the -- we've awarded contracts for about $22 billion. And because we're very reasonably early in the queue of spending compared to other LNG projects in that arena, we think we are in an advantaged place cost-wise, price-wise, contract-wise.

ED WESTLAKE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi. Good morning Pat and Jeanette. Pat, you gave a number in your presentation that the base operation sequentially from fourth quarter down about 27,000 barrels per day or 1%. Do you have that number for the first quarter versus?

JEANETTE OURADA: I don't have it with me, Paul. You can give me a call; I will give it to you later.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. And that, I presume that is probably end up at much lower, as you indicated, about 3% better than your current trend. Do we have any kind of timing issue in terms of a workover that's just finished, as we saw that we have a big jump in the near-term production? So trying to understand that is it just a normal better efficiency and better reliability, or we have some timing issue related to the benefit in the first quarter?

JEANETTE OURADA: It's primarily better reliability that Pat talked about. There was -- our Malampaya operations were down for a turnaround during the first quarter, but that is really the only unusual activity.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. The second quick one is that the headcount reduction, is all the people related to the severance charge in this quarter, are they all left the Company already? And if they are not, then when do you think the savings will start to flow through into your bottom line? And what is the target run- rate from those headcount reduction savings will be?

PAT YARRINGTON: The total accrual, $175 million, relates to a total of 3800 employees, spread across Downstream and then the other corporate staff group areas. We expect on the Downstream side that 2,000, we'll hit that target for Downstream by the end of this year.

And I would say the vast majority of that 3,800 will occur by the end of 2010/early 2011. Certainly within the two-year window, you will have all of those reductions occur.

In terms of a run rate, not all of these savings from headcount reductions are baked in, certainly not to our first quarter plan, probably not likely to see much of an impact in second quarter. It would really only be as you moved into the third and fourth quarters that you begin to see that impact. And the full effect really will be towards the end of 2011.

PAUL CHENG: And I know you guys talking about the $400 million non-fuel savings. Of which -- how much of them is related to headcount reduction?

PAT YARRINGTON: I'm sorry; I'm not understanding the question.

PAUL CHENG: The savings, that 3,800 people, that when they all left, what is the actual saving to the P&L going to look like?

PAT YARRINGTON: Right. I don't have a number for you on that, because it is, again, spread across Downstream and corporate staffs and whatnot. It clearly is partly baked into the 7% ROCE improvement that Mike Wirth talked about in our security analyst meeting. Part of the efficiency improvements that he talked about obviously relate to the streamlining that we are working to do, and headcount is a piece of that.

PAUL CHENG: Final one, I think for Gorgon, and Wheatstone, I think there is a lot of concern with a lot of new LNG projects coming onstream, even though you guys have been ahead of time, but towards the tail end by 2013, 2014, labor could be pretty tight.

Pat, can you share with us that in terms of how you guys manage it or how about contract is being set? Is it a turnkey and that is a fixed amount or that you are still subject to the spot rate for the labor market during that development phase?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think as far as I want to go on saying this, this project has been in FEED and kind of well scoped out probably amongst the best of any significant major capital projects in the globe. So we have had a lot of opportunity to work very hard on the contracting strategy and the contracting plan. And as I've said, we've executed $22 billion of awards against that.

So I think we are getting -- it is a very competitive project here, and there are lots of pieces to it, lots of contracting to it, and I don't really want to generalize or get specifically into contracting strategy here with you. We're confident that it is going to be a very competitive project, once up and running, and so far, we are on schedule and we are on plan.

PAUL CHENG: And can you tell us that on the labor side, does that still make you subject to the spot market of the labor or not really? I mean, you don't have to tell me exactly what is the term, but I want to see whether you are still exposed to the spot market of the labor market.

PAT YARRINGTON: As far as I want to go is just to say, look, it is in everybody's interest -- our interest, government's interest, labor's interest -- to get this project online under the commitments that were agreed to at the time that we sanctioned the project. We have strong government support. And everybody understands certainly locally there how important Gorgon is to the local economy. So we are confident that we will be able to get the labor that we need at competitive prices and have an economic project.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: I think I need to turn it over to somebody else here, if you don't mind. Give somebody else a chance.

PAUL CHENG: That's fine. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK: Hi guys and good morning. I had a couple specific things, if I could, please. I believe either Jeanette or Pat mentioned a 600,000 barrel a day capacity at TCO. Is that just liquids, and is it sustainable?

JEANETTE OURADA: That's just oil, Mark, you're correct.

MARK GILMAN: And sustainability, Jeanette?

JEANETTE OURADA: It's looking very good right now.

MARK GILMAN: Regarding the tax item that was mentioned in the International Upstream, the Canadian statutory implications, is there a positive deferred tax one-timer that was associated with that change in the statutory rate?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes.

MARK GILMAN: Quantify it, please.

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't think we want to do that. But I'd say here, Mark -- I know we were trying to get at taxes. That was one piece that was -- and it was a small piece, but directionally, it occurred in the quarter. I think it is very hard to give any more information about taxes on a predictive sort of basis for you.

MARK GILMAN: I'm not asking for a prediction. I'm just asking for the one-time effect of the deferred tax adjustment that went along with that statutory change.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I don't have it handy here.

JEANETTE OURADA: It's immaterial in the aggregate, Mark.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Production versus the fourth quarter was up, yet there was no mention of volumetric effects in the International Upstream, Jeanette, in your discussion. Should I assume that liftings were flat period-to-period, and that's why there was no volume mentioned?

JEANETTE OURADA: Well, we are underlifted in the first quarter, if that is what you are asking.

MARK GILMAN: In other words...

JEANETTE OURADA: 1% -- it is not that big.

MARK GILMAN: What was the amount, I'm sorry?

JEANETTE OURADA: 1%.

MARK GILMAN: And that is a shortfall of liftings versus first quarter production?

JEANETTE OURADA: Correct.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, one final one. Your deliveries and production in Bangladesh on the gas side have been constrained in the recent past by logistical, infrastructural and perhaps some contractual considerations. It looks like they jumped up pretty good in this period. Is this a signal that those issues have been resolved?

JEANETTE OURADA: There certainly has been increased demand in Bangladesh, and we are continuing to debottleneck our existing facilities. We still do have pipeline constraints of getting the gas out, so we still have more resource if we can work through those.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, folks. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: All right, thanks very much. Two questions, if I may. First, can you update us on anything you've heard in Kazakhstan in terms of the contract review or tax review announced by the government, and is there any effect on TCO?

PAT YARRINGTON: You are speaking to Karachaganak?

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Tengiz.

PAT YARRINGTON: I'm not sure what you're referencing here really, but we have a strong relationship in Kazakhstan. We've got tremendous, long-standing business there.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: So in other words no tax review regarding Tengiz?

PAT YARRINGTON: No tax review regarding Tengiz. That is why I was asking if you were talking about Karachaganak.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, okay.

PAT YARRINGTON: TCO is kind of fundamentally our operation here. And good, long-standing relationship, good agreement on contracts, sanctity of contracts, well-entrenched, well --everything is working quite well there.

And in terms of the Karachaganak issues, really, we need to refer you to the operator there. We are certainly just hopeful that the issues that are under dispute can come to conclusion quickly.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Right. In other words, no readthrough for Tengiz of any kind?

PAT YARRINGTON: No readthrough for Tengiz.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, great. Second question, your shale gas acreage in Poland, I think you have about one million acres. Any timetable on when you might commence activity?

PAT YARRINGTON: It's our plan here really to do seismic work in 2010 and probably look to begin drilling in 2011.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Very good, thanks.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good Morning. On the International Upstream side, the $215 million of Opex improvements sequentially quarter-over-quarter, is that number kind of sustainable through the entire year, or does that actually get better? Are we going to still see improvements going into second and third quarters?

PAT YARRINGTON: No, I mean, I think we would like to get another quarter under our belt here. In the quarter, the cost reductions or op expense reductions that we saw were really kind of all over the place, in terms of countries as well as cost categories. And I think that the way to look at this is fourth quarter typically is a higher op expense quarter for us. First quarter is oftentimes a lower op expense quarter for us. So I think you want to look at previous patterns in terms of your projections going forward.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay. Got you. And then in terms of the production volumes that -- looked like they were still ramping up out of Kazakhstan and Eurasia, the numbers that you guys have seen over the last several of quarters, is that continuing to ramp-up or should we expect those numbers to be relatively flattish now?

PAT YARRINGTON: I think flattish is probably a better place to target.

FAISEL KHAN: And then the production declines in the Philippines, what caused the natural gas declines over there?

JEANETTE OURADA: It was a turnaround in the quarter.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, so we should see that come back up?

JEANETTE OURADA: Yes, you should expect to see that come up next quarter.

FAISEL KHAN: And last question, on Gorgon, as you guys have let all your contracts or a lot of your contracts out for this project, how are you guys dealing with kind of, I guess, higher nickel prices? Because obviously, I think in a modular design, we tend to have -- you tend to have higher material costs. So how are you guys dealing with that sort of situation?

PAT YARRINGTON: Gosh, I don't have any unique information on the nickel cost impact on Gorgon. You're right, it is modular design, and we've got work in a number of fabricating yards all across the globe, really, here. I don't have anything specific to offer on that particular item.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, great. I appreciate the time.

OPERATOR: Jacques Rousseau, RBC.

JACQUES ROUSSEAU, ANALYST, RBC: Good morning. Just wanted to ask another tax question, coming at it from a little different way. Would you be able to provide the International Upstream tax rate in the first quarter and then compare it to some other quarters, and that may be able to help determine some of this difference?

PAT YARRINGTON: I don't think we want to necessarily go into that kind of detail. The effective rates, I mean, they really can move quite substantially in the International sector from one quarter to the next quarter to the next quarter. And it is dependent literally upon the taxable income by country in those locations, any sort of tax changes that may have occurred, any sort of application of investment tax credits that are applicable. We also have differences associated with gains and losses on asset sales that can influence the effective tax rate. So I think that it is just hard for us to give a go-forward point for you there.

JACQUES ROUSSEAU: Not so much for a go-forward point, but just to be able to compare historically as to what the change represented year-over-year.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, year-over-year, for a full-year cycle/full-year cycle, I think 2008 and 2009 have been relatively stable, in the 43%-44% range. Fourth quarter was high, higher than that. First quarter was substantially lower than that for us. So it bounces around, but for the year, perhaps maybe thinking about it averaging out.

JACQUES ROUSSEAU: Okay. One other one. In terms of the Chemical assets and earnings getting moved into the Downstream, is there a kind of rule of thumb as to what percentage of the assets will be in the U.S. Downstream and how much will go into the International Downstream?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, I mean, the Chemical operations are wholly-owned Chevron Oronite and 50% joint venture with Chevron Philips Chemical Company. That 50% shows up in the U.S. segment and the Oronite has both U.S. and non-U.S. components to it.

JACQUES ROUSSEAU: Helpful. Thank you.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, thank you very much. I think that concludes our call for today. I want to thank all of you for your participation on the call. I especially want to thank the analysts who asked questions, good questions, on behalf of all the participants.

So, Sean, I'll turn it back over to you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's first quarter 2010 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | ecu : Ecuador | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100514e64u00209
  


 HD
 Q2  2009  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,407 words
   PD
31 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Sean, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter 2009 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions).

As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Ms. Pat Yarrington. Please go ahead.

   TD
PAT YARRINGTON, VP, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Sean. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter earnings call and webcast. On the call with me today are George Kirkland, Executive Vice President, Global Upstream and Gas, and Jim Aleveras, General Manager, Investor Relations.

Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2009, and we will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on the slide 2.

Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's second-quarter earnings were $1.7 billion, or $0.87 per diluted share. Our second-quarter 2009 earnings were down 71% from the second quarter 2008. Second-quarter 2009 earnings fell 5% compared to the first quarter of 2009, which Jim will discuss shortly. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 17%. The debt ratio was 12% at the end of the quarter.

While debt balances were relatively flat during the second quarter, cash balances ended the period approximately $2 billion lower than the prior quarter. The cash change reflects working capital effects unique to the second quarter. For example, nearly half of the cash consumption in the second quarter pertains to a full-year 2008 foreign tax obligation that was accrued last year, but was paid in May 2009. The amount is particularly distortive because it is based on the much higher earnings level of last year.

And finally, as we announced on Wednesday, Chevron's Board of Directors approved a $0.03 per share, or 4.6% increase, in the common stock dividend payable on September 10, 2009.

Jim will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jim?

JIM ALEVERAS, GM, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. My remarks compare results of the second quarter 2009 with the first quarter 2009. As a reminder, our earnings release compared second quarter 2009 with the same quarter a year ago.

Turning to slide 4, second-quarter earnings were down $92 million from the first quarter. Starting with the left side of the chart, higher crude oil realizations increased the Company's worldwide upstream earnings. However, upstream results were adversely affected by a foreign-currency variance of about $500 million between quarters.

Second-quarter downstream results were sharply lower than the first quarter. This decline reflects lower margins in the second quarter, along with lower gains on asset sales. The second quarter included a $140 million benefit from asset sales compared to the $400 million gain recorded in the first quarter.

The other bar largely reflects improved chemical earnings and a favorable swing in corporate tax items.

On slide 5, our US upstream results for the second quarter were about $250 million higher than the first quarter's results. Combined crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $310 million. Chevron's average US crude oil realizations increased about $16.35 per barrel between consecutive quarters, almost the same change as average spot prices of West Texas Intermediate.

Natural gas realizations, however, fell between consecutive quarters, offsetting about $75 million of the benefit of higher crude oil prices.

Production volumes increased more than 4% between quarters. The startup of Tahiti, the ramp-up of Blind Faith and continued hurricane restoration efforts in the Gulf of Mexico more than overcame natural fuel declines.

The other bar includes the benefit of lower operating expenses, but these were more than offset by impairments of several small fields, which flow through DD&A, and some other items.

Slide 6 summarizes the results for our international upstream operations, which were essentially unchanged between quarters. On a combined basis, liquids and natural gas realizations improved earnings by $625 million. Our unit realizations for liquids improved by 35% compared with a 33% increase in Brent spot prices. Natural gas realizations, however, were lower in the second quarter, offsetting about $100 million of the benefit of higher liquids realizations.

Exploration expense increased $90 million between quarters, reflecting well write-offs spread among a number of countries. The FX and Other bar shown largely reflects a swing of more than $500 million in foreign-currency effects between quarters.

Slide 7 summarizes the change in worldwide oil-equivalent production, including volumes produced from oil sands in Canada. Production increased slightly between quarters. Higher prices reduced volumes under production-sharing contracts and variable royalty provisions by 24,000 barrels per day. Based on the $16.50 change in average West Texas Intermediate prices between the first and second quarters, this translates into a roughly 1500-barrel-per-day impact, compared to the rule of thumb we provided six months ago of 1200 barrels per day for each dollar WTI price change.

In the interim we have looked at all of our production-sharing agreements and variable royalties, and this study reemphasizes our earlier caveats, that the effects are nonlinear and any rule of thumb is very rough. Given the volatility in crude prices, no single rule of thumb is appropriate as forward guidance. Therefore, we will continue to quantify our price and volume effects for you each quarter.

Moving on to the next bar on slide 7, the decline of 44,000 barrels per day shown under the caption Base Business and External Constraints includes a number of items. First, the total base business decline was 58,000 barrels per day. But over 40,000 barrels per day of this amount was due to plan turnaround activity in Kazakhstan, Canada and other countries.

The same bar also reflects a 20,000-barrel-per-day benefit of hurricane restoration, partly offset by a 14,000-per-barrel-per day change in Nigerian production due to local disruptions. External constraints, such as OPEC, member host government limitations and Asian gas market factors were slightly less limiting than in the first quarter. This change was minimal, about 8000 barrels per day.

As shown in the next bar, increased production from our new major capital projects benefited second-quarter production by 75,000 barrels per day, primarily reflecting Agbami, Tahiti and Blind Faith. George Kirkland will provide a more detailed discussion of our major projects in production in a few minutes.

Turning to slide 8, US downstream earnings declined about $230 million in the second quarter. The overall impact of refining and marketing indicator margins was an adverse $75 million. The average change in our total margins between quarters was $130 million, in addition to the $75 million amount reflected by the indicator margins. The major factor was refining mix effects due to a decrease in distillate refining margins, a decrease in light heavy crude spreads, and other factors, such as higher refinery feedstock costs.

As these impacts were not fully captured by the indicator margins, our realized refining margins were more unfavorable than suggested by the indicators. Additionally, lubricant base oil margins were lower due to weakness in the industrial and commercial transportation markets.

Higher sales volumes increased second-quarter earnings by $75 million. This improvement is about the same amount as the adverse volume variance we showed in the prior quarter. We completed the planned turnaround maintenance at our El Segundo, California refinery that I mentioned last quarter, and this accounts for the difference.

The other bar reflects timing effects and a number of minor variances, including higher fuel costs due to higher prices. Timing effects represent about half of this variance between periods. WTI prices rose about $20 per barrel from the beginning to the end of the second quarter compared to a $5 per barrel increase during the first quarter.

The changes we've discussed before, including phasing out provisional pricing for our major supply contracts, have reduced the volatility of our US downstream earnings to changes in commodity prices. However, we will continue to experience timing effects related to market factors, such as lagged pricing terms for aviation fuel, along with inventory and supply effects.

Turning to slide 9, our international downstream earnings fell about $435 million from the first quarter's results. On balance, refining and marketing margins reduced earnings by $55 million between quarters. Both refining and marketing margins were lower in Asia, our largest international region. Timing effects represent a $90 million adverse variance between quarters. On an absolute basis, timing effects reduced first-quarter earnings by about $140 million, while the second-quarter effect was about $230 million. The largest single component of the $90 million quarterly change was a $60 million impact of lagged aviation pricing terms.

During the second quarter, we closed the previously announced sales of our fuels and marketing operations in Cameroon and Kenya. However, the gain of $140 million was $260 million less than the amount recognized in the first quarter for the sale of marketing businesses in Nigeria and Brazil.

Various items, including lower trading profits, partly offset by lower foreign currency losses, made up the majority of the $29 million variance shown in the Other bar. Operating expense, which dropped substantially in the first quarter, inched up slightly in the second quarter, partly on higher fuel costs.

Slide 10 shows that earnings from chemical operations were $108 million in the second quarter compared with $39 million in the first quarter. Results for olefins, aromatics and Oronite additives all reflected higher margins. Olefins and Oronite additives also benefited from higher volumes.

Slide 11 covers All Other. Second-quarter net charges were $43 million compared to $294 million in the first quarter. All other charges were below our typical guidance range of $250 million to $350 million. This reflects favorable corporate tax items, a swing from foreign currency losses to gains and lower corporate and service company net charges.

Before turning the call over to George Kirkland, I would just like to briefly recap the second quarter. First, upstream earnings benefited from higher crude oil prices, but these were largely offset by substantial adverse foreign currency effects, in line with the interim update. Downstream results reflected weak margins, adverse timing effects due to the increase in commodity prices and lower asset sales gains, also mentioned in the interim update. As we projected, All Other net charges were below the guidance range.

Finally, and most importantly, our operational results were strong, from upstream production to refinery utilization. George Kirkland is now going to provide an update on our production outlook for 2009 and further discuss our upstream projects. George?

GEORGE KIRKLAND, EVP, GLOBAL UPSTREAM AND GAS, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Jim. It's good to be back to discuss upstream performance and our outlook for the remainder of the year. I am very pleased with our progress through the first half of 2009, particularly in the areas of project execution, production and cost management. And I'm going to address each of these areas.

Let's now move to slide 13. Production performance from our major capital projects in the first half of this year has been strong. 2009 production growth from these projects will likely exceed the 300,000-barrel-a-day forecast we provided at the fourth-quarter earnings call, and shows both the strength of a major capital project queue and our ability to execute.

The bulk of the production increases come from four major capital projects. Tahiti achieved first oil on May 5 and reached peak production within three months. That was six months ahead of schedule. Current production is at full capacity of 135,000 barrels of oil-equivalent per day.

The ramp-up of Agbami has reached 220,000 barrels of oil a day and is ahead of our schedule to reach peak production of 250,000 barrels of oil per day.

SGI/SGP in Kazakhstan is performing above the nameplate capacity of 240,000 barrels a day. De-bottlenecking activities are currently underway that should allow for higher oil production by year-end.

And finally, Blind Faith reached peak production of 70,000 barrels of oil-equivalent a day in late March.

Due to the performance of these major capital projects, combined with lower OPEC and market constraints, and lower base business declines, which averaged about 6%, we now expect the full-year outlook for 2009 to be about 2.66 million barrels a day, an increase of 30,000 barrels a day from our previous guidance. This translates to a 5% increase over 2008 levels of 2.53 million barrels a day, and includes both the impact of security-related disruptions in Nigeria that have caused -- excuse me -- includes both the security-related disruptions in Nigeria that have caused significant shut-ins.

This revised outlook is based on an average oil price of $50 per barrel. And of course, changes in price will impact this outlook.

Other progress to be noted in the first half of 2009 is as follows. Frade achieved first oil on June 20. This is Chevron's first operated asset in Brazil. We expect Frade to reach peak production of 90,000 barrels a day in [2011] (corrected by Company) as additional development wells are drilled. And Mafumeira Norte in Angola Block 0 achieved first oil in July, once again ahead of schedule. Production is currently ramping up and forecasted to reach a peak production of 35,000 barrels of oil-equivalent a day in 2011 as additional development wells come on-line.

Turning now to slide 14, I would like to discuss some of the other significant achievements that occurred during the first half of 2009. Yesterday, we announced that the Wheatstone LNG project in Australia entered FEED as a two-train development. This significant milestone demonstrates our progress towards sanction. It follows the announcement in February of a successful seven-well exploration and appraisal program that underpins the two-train development.

Also in Australia, we received a conditional recommendation from the Western Australian Environmental Protection Authority on the expanded Gorgon Project. This is excellent news, and we are on schedule to sanction the project later this year.

In Nigeria, we remain on schedule to sanction Stage 2 of the Agbami field. Stage 2 development wells will extend the peak production plateau of 250,000 barrels of oil a day. In the Partition-Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, steam injection at the LargeScale Steamflood pilot began in late June. With pilot success, a full-field development of the Wafra Eocene reservoir will follow. This field contains over 12 billion barrels of oil in place, and would be the first commercial application of a conventional steamflood in a carbonate reservoir.

In Angola, we now forecast Tombua-Landana start-up during the third quarter of 2009. Hook-up and commissioning is about 90% complete. It is expected that three wells will be available at first oil. Tombua-Landana is projected to reach 100,000 barrels a day by 2011 with development drilling.

And finally, in Indonesia, the start-up of the non-operated South Natuna Sea North Belut field remains on schedule for the third quarter of 2009.

Let's now take a look at slide 15. I would like to talk about our upstream cost structure, which includes production expense, DD&A and other expenses. This chart shows the competitiveness of our cost structure and has been updated since our Security Analyst Meeting in March. For 2008, we had industry-leading upstream costs of $20.05 per barrel. During the first half of 2009, this has improved to $19.87 a barrel. Lower production expenses and higher DD&A charges almost offset each other.

On a unit of production basis, DD&A charges increased by $2.22 per barrel during the first half of 2009 compared to full-year 2008. This was principally driven by the investments associated with new project start-ups at Agbami, Blind Faith, Tahiti and Moho-Bilondo. Although the DD&A associated with these new project start-ups is high, this is to be expected and is a function of how proved developed reserves are booked over time.

Let me offer an example. Take a deepwater project like Blind Faith. DD&A rates at start-up are calculated based on the project investment, but only a small portion of the resources are booked as proved reserves under SEC guidelines. However, as additional proved reserves are booked and the capital depreciated, the associated DD&A rate will significantly drop over subsequent years. Early in the project's life, earnings may be impacted due to the higher DD&A, but cash margins are generally at their highest levels. And remember, we base our investment decisions on cash flow.

Now let's turn to production expense, because DD&A is only part of the story. In the upstream through the first half of 2009, production expenses were $2.52 per barrel less than full-year 2008. This is a function of lower operating expenses and taxes other than on income. This reduction has more than offset the increase in DD&A.

I am pleased with our progress on managing our production costs, and this will remain a key focus for us. Pat will provide further insights on Chevron's cost management activities. And with that, I would like to turn it over to Pat.

PAT YARRINGTON: Thanks, George. Slide 16 provides a progress report on our aggressive company-wide efforts to reduce cash cost of running the business. We've targeted a $2.5 billion reduction in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2009 compared to 2008. The target excludes the benefit associated with lower cost of purchased fuel.

All areas of the Company are working to reduce costs- upstream, downstream, corporate departments and our internal service and technology organizations. And at mid-year, we were ahead of pace to meet the full-year objectives.

Some key areas of focus in our push for cost reduction are listed on the slide -- materials and supplies, transportation expenses and contract labor and third-party services. Our recent downstream assets sales, notably in Brazil and several West African countries, removed costs relative to the prior periods, and this was anticipated in our target.

On the upstream side, particularly in North America, we have reduced activity related to well workovers and are contracting fewer rigs at lower rates. This makes good business sense given the economics of these activities, in particular in relation to natural gas prices.

As a note of caution, please keep in mind that the operating expenses will not be perfectly ratable throughout the year due to seasonal and other effects, such as turnaround activities. Nevertheless, we are very pleased with our progress.

I would like to wrap up our prepared remarks with a recap of Chevron's operational performance through the first half of the year. This is slide 17. As George discussed, our upstream production remains on track for a good year-over-year increase, with our major capital projects performing on-plan or better. Our year-to-date refinery crude utilization remains a strong 93% of capacity. We've had no significant unplanned shutdowns, and the Solomon utilization rate for our operated refineries is right at planned level.

George described our upstream project execution, which is on track. And Jim mentioned that our downstream portfolio upgrading continued last quarter, and we expect further progress on this initiative in the quarters ahead. As I just outlined, our cost management efforts are progressing quite well.

And finally, we are maintaining our strategic focus on the factors that will ensure growth and superior returns to our stockholders in the years ahead. In addition to funding the long-term growth components of our capital program, we are continuing our strategic staffing initiatives to ensure that we have the future technical expertise in Chevron to remain a top performer.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We would now like to welcome your questions. Please try to limit your follow-up questions so that everybody has an opportunity to participate. So Sean, please open the lines now for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning, everyone. You mentioned that there is a $500 million variance in Forex, which seems -- and correct me if I'm wrong -- but it does seem to be somewhat bigger than your rivals. I think the effect for Forex if I'm correct was less than -- well less than $600 million, obviously, off a bigger base. Could you just help us understand how much of that is, if you like, an accounting effect and how much is an operational effect? Thanks.

PAT YARRINGTON: Paul, these are balance sheet translations, and it reflects where we do our business and the relationship of the currencies from period to period. So a lot of this occurred in Australian dollars, Canadian dollar, the pound, et cetera, and we had currency appreciations there, local currency appreciations versus the dollar between 8% and 16% in the quarter.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, so essentially, the entirety of it is a balance sheet item?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, it is a book item.

PAUL SANKEY: And conceptually, if the dollar -- I don't want to be too negative here -- but if the dollar continued weakening forever, would you just continue to -- is there a limit to how much this can be, or can it just keep going on forever?

JIM ALEVERAS: Paul, it would fluctuate based on our relationship between liabilities and assets.

PAT YARRINGTON: Right.

JIM ALEVERAS: Depending on whether they are a net liability position or a net asset position, we can see a larger or smaller or no effect from strengthening or weakening of the dollar.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. Of your monetary assets.

JIM ALEVERAS: Monetary --.

PAT YARRINGTON: Monetary assets.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, I've got the general idea. So maybe we will follow up.

If I could have an upstream one as well, please. What -- you had several different moving parts with it, included your base business decline. Could you, just to make it simple, just strip out what you think your base business decline was for the quarter?

And then I have just a follow-up on upstream and I'll leave it. Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, let me try to do it in this context. We try to give a view of where we think base business is going to be for the year. Through the first half of the year, it has been significantly below our 7% guidance. It has been more in the 5% range, 4% to 5% range, as best we can track it. Once again, you have to take a lot of ins and outs with turnarounds and everything else, and security and everything else going on.

Our present forecast for the full year is we are going to average about 6%. Now, if you go back to our analyst meeting in the first quarter or the January call, we said at that point that we were basing our outlook for the year based on a 7% base business decline. And at this point, we see that decline is going to be less than we had earlier forecast it -- by 1% at least.

PAUL SANKEY: I understand. And any idea for next year, George? Would that go faster again, or --?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, I'd really hate to talk about next year until we get our capital program put in place.

PAUL SANKEY: If it was the same capital program as this year.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: It would probably be more in line with this 7%, because we reduced our base business capital significantly. And that is driven heavily in the United States around our investments in the gas side of the business.

Just to give you a little more color to that, I expect by the end of the year, we will not have a single gas land rig running. We are redeploying our efforts to -- where we can, within our ability -- to move equipment around and contracts around to really focus on oil in the United States. Gas prices, doesn't make sense for us right now to be drilling those gas wells.

PAUL SANKEY: And so the entirety of the incremental decline would be basically U.S. gas?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think that is -- it is going to be heavily US gas. We will be able to tell you a lot more after we get through our business plans. So first-quarter call -- or I guess January call next year and analysts meeting, we will be able to give you a lot more color on that.

PAUL SANKEY: Great. That's very helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: First, Jim, want to say thank you for all the help over the past couple of years and wish you a happy retirement.

JIM ALEVERAS: Thank you very much, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: We will miss you. I think I have two questions. One, Pat, you talked about that the cost-saving is now ahead of pace at mid-year. How much of the benefit so far are you are seeing is related to FX, and how much is really just coming from the vendor or raw material costs just coming down?

PAT YARRINGTON: Good question, Paul. Really, from an FX standpoint, it is a factor, but it is not a significant factor. And I guess the second component you were asking about is sort of the energy-related drivers?

PAUL CHENG: And also the raw material costs and everything.

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, clearly it is a factor in there. We haven't segregated it out on a raw materials component factor uniquely, or discreetly. We have cost reductions, I think as I mentioned on the call last time, that depending upon the commodity or the product category, you can get price reductions here or cost reductions here that have ranged from 60%, the more commoditized the service or equipment is, to 10% or 20%, the less commoditized it is.

PAUL CHENG: Maybe I have missed it. Pat, have you said an exact number to how much you think that your cost-saving is at this point --?

PAT YARRINGTON: You mean on a year-to-date basis?

PAUL CHENG: Yes.

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes. We are down more than the 10%. We said we are ahead of pace. The 10% is our target for the year. We said we are more than 10%.

We noted in the press release on a quarter-to-quarter, second quarter this year to second quarter last year, that on a recurring basis, we were down 15%. We did have some non-recurring items in the second quarter of last year that we didn't have in the second quarter of this year. They were not repeated.

So timing effects like this can occur, but they typically even out over the year. So I'd just encourage you to look at the 10% target and to know that so far we are ahead of pace.

PAUL CHENG: So so far you have $1.8 million dollars, $1.9 million -- $1.8 billion, $1.9 billion? Did you say 15%?

PAT YARRINGTON: You will see it when we put out the 10-Q. And just know that there are some nonrecurring elements in there.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. If I could have one quick upstream. George, in Iraq, when you are looking at the opportunity set and the risks associated and the kind of terms that they offered you in the first round, if that maintain -- is that really a place that you guys will be very keen on to invest?

Also that if you look at the security situation on the ground, is it improved sufficiently for you to feel comfortable to put your people on the ground at this moment?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, I think you can tell that -- or maybe not -- we didn't really submit a bid on the first round in Iraq. We could not see a conforming bid at that point work for us on an economic basis. We like Iraq, when you think about the resource side, phenomenal resource. We look at it, we would like to be there. But we need to have confidence both in the economic viability of the investments and the security side. So you've got to look at both elements of that, and we weren't able to see that in this first round. And the way the first round has ended up, really not -- really the bid did not prove to be that successful.

PAUL CHENG: In the first one, you didn't put a bid -- is it more of an economic concern or is it a security concern -- from your guys' standpoint?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I would say at this point it was more an economic concern.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon, guys. Thank you for taking my call. And also congratulations, Jim, on your retirement.

JIM ALEVERAS: Thanks, Evan.

EVAN CALIO: I have just a quick question on Gorgon. I listened to your comments on the conditional improvement. Can you walk me through -- walk us through exact details on the path to FID for Gorgon?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I'll give you some of the color. There is a whole lot of things that must happen. First, most critical item is of course getting our EPA approval. We need to get our environmental permit to build Gorgon on Barrow Island. That is critical step one.

Of course, then, we've got to have all our partners between now and that period have their own internal approvals. We need from the government all the leases, ratified, I guess -- I think would be the best word. So we've got to put in our development plans for production. They have to be approved.

But I think the most critical items is one, the environmental permit. Nothing can happen until we get the environmental permit, And then second is of course all the partners in Gorgon to give their financial approval to move forward. Those are the two critical steps. There are a lot of other little steps that go with it.

We think we are very, very close on the environmental permit, and we've done all our due diligence and all the project due diligence, I think, to be ready on the decision-making around the economics.

EVAN CALIO: Excellent. Another question on the upstream. Are there any hurricane volumes that remain shut-in or any color on timing of bringing those volumes onstream?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think we are at about 87% of our volumes that were impacted. We will bring another 5% to 8% on. We've always been telling everyone that we didn't see maybe as much as 5% that would ever be restored. And I think most of this remainder will be on by the end of the year.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, great. Just one other follow-up on the decline issue. If I understand -- and I know it's CapEx related, your 7% decline versus the lower 4% at prior CapEx level was really a U.S. gas driven event. Is that fair?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Predominantly -- it is a predominantly -- we've cut down all base business. We've got some issues around the world, too, where we have base business that could be impacted by OPEC constraints, that we would look at very similarly to what we are looking at U.S. gas.

EVAN CALIO: Okay.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: It doesn't make sense to spend the money and build capacity where we are not going to be able to produce it.

EVAN CALIO: Sure. But also higher decline base, meaning that 7% could taper lower over time, if you -- I know there's a lot of variables in that math. But is that the kind of correct thinking?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, the big thing that is going to happen over time as more and more of these large projects come on, they do not see the decline in the early periods. Many of them have multi-year, five-year, some of them, and some of them longer flat lives. You look at like TCO, Tengiz, and the investment we've made in SGI/SGP, that second-generation plant there, that is almost a flat line. It is not a function at all of the reservoir. It is only a function of the plant capacity, and the plant capacity doesn't go down. It stays up.

So you have to look at each one of them. But more and more, as we get more and more of these large, new assets on, that base of production has very, very low to no decline rate. So it will change over time.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, good.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: And we'll have to give you updates on that at least a couple of times a year, on what we are seeing happening.

EVAN CALIO: Excellent. Thank you for taking my question.

OPERATOR: Arjun Murti, Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Thanks for the color on the DD&A rate. Were there any charges or other things that ran through DD&A in the first half? If I take that $2.20 a barrel you mentioned, there still seems to be a little bit of a gap. I suppose just wondering if the 3.1 billion rate in 2Q is sort of a run rate going forward.

JIM ALEVERAS: That is a good question. If you look at the information in our press release, you can see that our six-month 2008 DD&A was about $4.5 billion versus almost $6 billion for six months of 2009, that the major capitals projects account for about 55% of that. But then there is a lot of other things that I mentioned last quarter that do impact DD&A, things such as impairments that run through that, accretion expense.

So there is a lot of different items, as well as base business, that impact DD&A in addition to our major capital projects. But I do want to say the major capital projects were the largest single item and accounted for more than half of the increase. But if you look at overall DD&A, the increase is all in the upstream segment.

ARJUN MURTI: That's great. That's very helpful. And just a final one, any update on how you are thinking about a stock buyback at this point?

PAT YARRINGTON: Yes, as we've expressed several times here, the stock buyback piece is really the most discretionary component of our uses of cash. And the priorities are for the dividends, which you saw the Board increased, funding the capital program and keeping a good balance sheet. And for the moment, that is where our priorities are, and I don't -- we are not reinstating the share repurchase program at this time.

ARJUN MURTI: You guys clearly have an exceptionally strong balance sheet. And I'm not a diehard stock buyback person, but maybe in this challenging economic environment, you just want to keep an even stronger balance sheet than even is normally considered strong?

PAT YARRINGTON: Well, I think we just -- we have a lot of organic opportunities here, and maintaining flexibility, financial flexibility is important to us.

ARJUN MURTI: That's great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Neil McMahon, Sanford Bernstein.

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hopefully you can hear me. The line's not great. Maybe a few for George. I didn't pick up when Tahiti was going to hit peak production, if it hadn't done so already.

And also, on that theme of the upstream, just wondering when you were going to start to think about drilling in the subsalt in the Campos Basin around Frade, if there was an opportunity to do that going into 2010. And then I've got a final follow-up.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, Tahiti, I tried to make that in the early comments --we have reached peak production. The facility is really designed for about 135,000 barrel equivalent per day. We've reached that already. We ramped up all the wells very, very quickly to that. So it is going very positive. Like all cases, we are always looking to see if we can get a little more efficiency out of our facilities. But we are reached the nameplate capacity, and like I say, very, very quickly.

Frade, I think it is too early for us to start thinking about the subsalt there. We don't have a lot of opportunities for us in the basin at this point. We have some, but we are limited with our lease holdings there. So we are going -- having to look to the future and future opportunities in Brazil.

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay. And then just a very general question, again for yourself. A number of your competitors this week have come out with statements that have suggested that one company has got the best set of assets in the industry and another one is the industry leader in terms of its option set and the upstream going forward.

Just wondering how you would classify your upstream position, given the fact that obviously, based on your competitors, you are at least third in the rankings for some reason.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: There has been a lot of good work done by analysts and consultants out there, and I think almost consistently they've always said Chevron has, if not the best, one of the very best queues of project in the industry. I think you can look back at the number of projects that we've brought online in '08 and '09 and what we are bringing on in '10, and see the steps we also are taking going forward with Gorgon and Wheatstone and the quality of those assets.

The next-generation facility that we will bring to Tengiz; we've got a 400,000-barrel-a-day expansion that we can do there. And our position in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico in the Lower Tertiary, the first one of those projects come on in Perdido early next year. We just moved Jack/St. Malo into FEED. We announced the discovery of Buckskin earlier this year. We've got a great queue of projects there. So these projects -- and all of the projects I've just mentioned at very, very attractive development costs. So I am not aware of any other company that has got a better queue of projects.

NEIL MCMAHON: Maybe we need to look into it a bit more, but thanks for those comments.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Howard Weil.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL: Good morning, folks. Jim, you're going to be missed. The changes you've made over the years have been really appreciated, and I'll miss working with you.

JIM ALEVERAS: Thank you very much, Doug.

DOUG LEGGATE: A couple questions. I'm going to take advantage of George being there, if that's okay. The color on the costs is much appreciated, particularly on depreciation, given the substantial changes we've seen.

However, George, is it possible to just give a general kind of overview as to the new projects that are driving the growth? How do the underlying F&D and by which the future DD&A compare to the base business, to try and strip away the timing effects? I'm just trying to understand when we can expect to see some incremental reduction again or reversal of this increase that we've seen in fairly substantial depreciation. That's my first one, and I have a quick follow-up.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Yes, I think it does vary between projects and the type of projects. I would tell you the deepwater projects are the ones that typically see the highest DD&A rates at the beginning. I will tell you they ramp down pretty quickly. The first year, with the barrels that have been booked have extremely high DD&A rates. We tend to during the start-up period every six months look at reserves and look at reserve bookings. So we often actually make mid-year updates on the reserve picture on these new projects.

My expectation by -- in most cases, by the third year, we will have seen a significant drop in the DD&A rates. We see it move pretty quickly as we book these additional barrels. So normally, I would say within two booking cycles we'd probably have those down. And I would tell you at that point in time, they will be very attractive on a DD&A basis.

But the other side of it, and I think what is really important to recognize, is these projects tend to have the lowest OpEx operating expense of any barrels we have in the system. And that is typical for new projects. You don't make water. Chemical costs typically are low. You get a lot of barrels, and per person in effect.

So it is a really good time and you really need to -- what we really look at, of course, is the margin and the cash margin, which is very, very good on those projects. Does that help a little bit?

DOUG LEGGATE: It does. George, if I could just push you just a little more on that particular issue. Would you characterize the profitability, let's say call it unit margin, on an all-in cost basis -- that is, when fill reserve bookings and so on are in place -- as being incrementally better than the base portfolio? In other words, is your capture rate going to start to improve as you've delivered this, obviously, very substantial growth visibility over the next year or two? In your opinion.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I would think on average, it will improve. I think those barrels are better barrels in total on a margin context. But it does -- for us to see it flow on the book side, on the earnings side, it is going to take us probably in some of the projects the second or third year to really see that.

And once again, it varies greatly between projects. You get a project that is like Tengiz, you don't see the big impact of it because you really have characterized the reservoir and the reserves are a lot more straightforward in the booking. For most of our deepwater projects, the actual performance, the well performance is needed to book additional barrels. And that is why the first couple of years are so important.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great. My follow-up was actually related to Wheatstone. The two or three in development going to FEED, as you mentioned in your remarks. Can you just give us some color as to whether you are going to bring in partners to supply the FEED gas for those two developments, or is this 100% Chevron, or where are we in the process of securing the gas?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think it starts with we have -- with our exploration and appraisal work, we know we have enough gas with Wheatstone and Iago to underwrite a two-train -- two 4.3 million ton per annum trains. So that is 8.6 tons per year of LNG that can be covered by the Wheatstone and Iago projects.

We would like -- like in all LNG projects, we would like to have a much bigger footprint, more trains. We've had other exploration opportunities in Australia. So we would like to be able to bank a bigger footprint, i.e., more trains. So we are very interested in moving forward with others to open up a bigger opportunity set for the Wheatstone Project or the Wheatstone LNG.

So it is both. But I think what is really important is we've got enough gas to get to the two trains ourselves. And so -- and we would like to get bigger. Because there is always -- the money to be made in LNG is all in getting more and more trains and more and more gas through it.

DOUG LEGGATE: I guess where I'm going with this, George, is would you expect to fund both trains 100% Chevron, and then any incremental trains would involve partners? Is that a fair way of thinking about it, or is it not that straightforward?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I don't believe it is that straightforward, and it's in the early stages. Once again, we've got enough gas to underwrite it. What happens commercially between now and the next 24 months could shape what we end up with there. I hate to leave it open-ended, but it is a little bit open-ended on that piece.

DOUG LEGGATE: No, that's great color. Thanks very much indeed.

OPERATOR: Michael Lamotte, JPMorgan.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: George, if I could ask on Nigeria quickly, can you give us an update on your perspective on the state of play there with respect to the fiscal changes? And really where I'm going with the question is thinking longer-term, how you think about allocating capital in light of the risks of change in fiscal terms?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, capital allocation everywhere is a function of the economic returns that we will receive. If fiscal terms, either future or retroactively changes to contracts, which once again, like everyone, we really want to see contract sanctity. But if you look at the go-forward case, if the economic and fiscal terms change, the capital will flow somewhere else.

We are not sure of capital investment opportunities, and the challenge is always making sure we put our capital to those best opportunities. And we try to be very, very rigorous in doing that. And if the terms in one country in the world become inferior, you can bet that the capital will flow to another opportunity somewhere else in the world.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Is that true in terms of the incremental CapEx on, say, a project that is in queue, but hasn't gone to FEED or FID, as well as any expenses you would have on the maintenance or operating side?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: You are getting to a detail level where the economic -- the economics are really pretty difficult to tell. So you are starting to get into those ones where there is some gray in there, and it depends on the impact, the amount of investment and the amount of risk.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: And we just don't know enough yet on any of that yet.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: That's correct.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Okay. If I could shift gears quickly, just a couple of clean-ups on the numbers. $40,000 in maintenance in Q2, is all that back up? Any maintenance plans for the third quarter?

JIM ALEVERAS: The 40,000 barrels a day of maintenance is partly back up, not fully back up, and I do not have our next quarter's plans yet.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I can just give a little bit of color -- the second and third quarter for us are always the heaviest turnaround quarters. That is when you have typically the best weather. So we do have some turnarounds in the UK sector, I know. And I do believe we have one... some additional work that may fall in Tengiz later this year. So there is some more work to come, but I think we've got a lot of the big stuff done.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Okay. And then lastly, on the SGI de-bottlenecking, where is that going to go from the 240 nameplate?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think our opportunity is in the 10% to 15% increase, and maybe even 20%. So we are pretty confident of 10% to 15%, and we may get as high as a 20% bump on that. What we are doing there is the sulfur plant is really what controls the amount of crude that we can put through. We can't change or increase the sulfur plant capacity. So what we've really been able to do is we've got a little bit more capacity on the front end of the plant, on separation and the ability to inject higher H2S gas into the reservoir. And that flexibility is how we are able to get this higher rate.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Interesting. All right, thanks. That does it for me.

OPERATOR: Robert Kessler, Simmons & Company.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY: Good morning, George. Does your conservatism on U.S. natural gas production later this year have any assumption built in for shut-ins, whether due to economic reasons or in want of transportation capacity to get your gas to the market?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: No, it is -- decline rates on U.S. gas are pretty high, and we are pulling the trigger, reducing the amount of investment in that arena. And it is going to start responding and declining.

Maybe even to give you a little additional color, we have -- the Piceance basin, we have a facility that will be coming on. We have a nice area of development up there, 30,000 plus acres. We have drilled a large number of wells and will be starting up a facility there. But we are shutting down all drilling in the Piceance. And we had plans at one time to be up to even six or eight rigs running there. So we are going to shut down the last rig. We have been running two there for a couple of years, and we are going to shut that down.

ROBERT KESSLER: Beyond shutting down to zero on the incremental drilling, is there a price below which you would actually turn off the taps?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: That gets more into the supply and demand balance. Of course, there is a price at some point that you're not going to supply gas. We've done no -- I've done no work or seen any work that we've done in that arena.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay. Separately on Tengiz, just trying to think about going forward. Now that you've got the capacity there, what sort of utilization rate should we think about for those facilities? Obviously, you had quite a bit of maintenance last year, I imagine more than normal, to tie in the new facilities.

But if we think of the normal run rate utilization, say, 2010, 2011, and onwards, how should we think about that?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Mid nineties.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG: George, I just want to make sure I hear you correctly. You say you are not going to have any more active gas rigs at all in the lower 48 by year-end?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: That's correct on land rigs, land gas rigs.

PAUL CHENG: Right. Land gas rigs.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Land gas rigs by the end of the year, I expect --.

PAUL CHENG: So no workover or anything?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: No development gas drilling. I'll go that far. I wouldn't hazard to say that far on we would have anything with regards to workovers.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, no new development drilling. Okay.

On oil sands, I think several years ago at one point you guys were pretty interested, trying to expand your footprint. In the last two or three years, I think you have been pretty quiet or not totally crazy about that. Where are we? From a company standpoint, what is your strategy or what is the priority of the oil sands in your portfolio at this point?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Paul, you know we are investing in the expansion of the Albian oil sands with the Shell, the Athabasca oil sands project up there. That expansion should come online in 2010. That is -- on a gross barrel basis, that is about 100,000 barrels a day, and our working interest share is 20%. That will make the footprint we have in Canada -- that will give us over -- that, with the existing production will give us over 50,000 barrels a day of oil sands production.

We like oil sands in the sense of the resource, the location, so that is a positive. At this point, though, the cost of developing it and operating it, it is tough to make money in a $50 world. So the challenge for us -- and we've got opportunities of participating with our partners to expand up there, but we see it needs to happen when we can control the capital cost and bring the capital cost down, and when we have a view of higher oil prices. So that is what is important for us.

With inside our project queue, oil sands makes up a pretty small piece of it. And when you look at the economics of it, it is the weakest set of projects with inside our queue of projects. Weakest on an economic sense.

PAUL CHENG: Very good. Thank you.

OPERATOR: I am not showing any further questions, sir.

PAT YARRINGTON: Okay, then I'll just go ahead and close up. Thank you, Sean.

Before ending completely here, I just want to reiterate a couple of key messages here. Operations ran very well, are running really very well. Project execution is very strong. You heard from George about the volume increases that we are seeing year-over-year, as planned. We have a strong focus on cost management -- a $2.5 billion target, 10% target reduction for year-over-year. We are running ahead of pace on that. And we are very intent on sustaining that momentum.

We appreciate everybody's participation on the call today. And I want to thank everybody on the call -- on behalf of everybody on the call for the analyst questions. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes Chevron's second-quarter 2009 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i371 : Measuring/Precision Instruments | i3251 : Mining/Oil/Gas Field Machinery | i14001 : Petroleum Refining | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
e1101 : Economic Growth | cprdcl : Facility Closures | c151 : Earnings | cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | e1112 : Capacity Utilization | gtrans : Transport | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade | cdued : Due Diligence | gvenv : Environment Department | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | mnatgs : Natural Gas Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ghurr : Storms | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | gntdis : Natural Disasters/Catastrophes | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics | grisk : Risk News | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gwea : Weather | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | fpoly : French Polynesia | namz : North America | pacisz : Pacific Islands
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090814e57v001s4
  


 HD
 Q4  2008  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,198 words
   PD
30 January 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Dave O'Reilly. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVE O'REILLY, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Matt. And welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter earnings conference call and Webcast. On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Jim Aleveras, General Manager, Investor Relations. Pat took over as CFO from Steve Crowe who retired last month and has extensive experience in all aspects of Chevron's financial operations. Most recently, Pat has been our Vice President and Treasurer and prior to that was Vice President of Government and Public Affairs and before that Vice President of Strategic Planning. You'll have an opportunity to meet her at our meeting in New York on March 10th.

Pat, I'll turn the meeting over to you.

PATRICIA YARRINGTON, VP, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Dave. Let's turn now to Chevron's financial and operating results for the fourth quarter of 2008. We'll refer to the slides that are available on the web. Before we get started, please remember that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide two.

I'll begin with slide three which provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's fourth quarter earnings were $4.9 billion, or $2.44 per diluted share. Our total fourth quarter 2008 earnings were about the same as fourth quarter 2007. Earnings per share, however, were up about 5% due to our share repurchase program. Comparing the fourth quarter 2008 to the same period a year earlier, lower crude oil and natural gas prices reduced upstream results while falling prices improved profits in the downstream segment. To recap the balance of slide three, return on capital employed for the year was nearly 27%.

Underscoring Chevron's financial strength the debt ratio was below 10% at the end of the year and cash balances exceeded debt by $700 million. Share repurchases were $8 billion for the year. Our latest share repurchase program was authorized by the Board in September 2007. For up to $15 billion over a period of up to three years. We have now repurchased $10.1 billion of the $15 billion authorized. We do not anticipate repurchasing shares in the first quarter of 2009. Finally, Chevron's 2008 TSR of negative 18% compares favorably to the S&P 500's return of negative 37% and a 37% decline in the AMEX Oil Index.

Turning to slide four, our total capital spend for 2008 was $22.8 billion compared with our budget of $22.9 billion. Upstream spending accounted for $17.5 billion of that total. Our cash C&E which excludes our equity share of affiliate outlays was $20.5 billion. Our announced capital program for 2009 of $22.8 billion is unchanged from 2008 expenditures.

However, about 10% of the total 2009 budget relates to large one-time payments for concessions in the Partitioned Neutral Zone and Chuandongbei gas field. Excluding these items, underlying spending in the upstream segment is budgeted to be lower than last year. Of the overall 2009 capital program, 77% is for upstream activities, reflecting the capital intensive phase of some of our long-term growth projects. Another 19% is earmarked for the downstream for a number of investments to upgrade our refining network.

Jim will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. So Jim, over to you.

JIM ALEVERAS, GM, IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Pat. My remarks compare results of the fourth quarter 2008 with the third quarter 2008. As a reminder, our earnings release compared fourth quarter 2008 with the same quarter a year earlier. Turning to slide five.

Fourth quarter net income was about $3 billion lower than the third quarter. Starting with the left side of the chart, lower crude oil and natural gas prices caused worldwide upstream results to decline by more than $3 billion. Similar to the prior quarter, falling commodity prices benefited the downstream segment in the fourth quarter. The variance in the "Other" bar reflects lower chemical earnings and higher corporate charges.

Slide six summarizes the results of our US upstream operations. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices reduced earnings by $1.6 billion. Chevron's average US crude oil realization was down about $61 per barrel between quarters. Similar to the average WTI change of about $59 per barrel between the periods. Production volumes were down 4%, mainly due to the full quarter impact of September hurricane shut-ins. This volume impact reduced fourth quarter earnings by $100 million.

As mentioned in the interim update, lower charges related to the hurricanes benefited earnings by about $350 million in the fourth quarter, compared to the third. The fourth quarter included a gain of about $600 million from an exchange transaction which included the Company's interest in a producing property in Utah. For comparison, asset sales added about $350 million to third quarter profits. This difference of $250 million is shown on the chart. The "Other" bar is comprised of a number of items, the largest of which was related to a change in natural gas inventories.

Turning to slide seven. International upstream earnings for the fourth quarter fell nearly $2 billion from the third quarter's results. Lower oil and gas prices reduced earnings by $2.8 billion. Our average realizations for liquids fell about $56 per barrel between sequential quarters, compared to the $59 per barrel decline in the average Brent Spot Price. Higher liftings benefited fourth quarter earnings by $430 million. Liftings were higher in Kazakhstan due the ramp-up of the Tengiz expansion and completion of the third quarter facilities turnaround there.

The ramp-up of Agbami in Nigeria was also a significant factor. The $210 million favorable variance in tax items shown on this slide reflects various issues in several countries. Exploration expense was higher between quarters, reducing earnings by $140 million. This was a result of several well write-offs along with higher geological and geophysical expenditures. The "Other" bar is primarily an increase in foreign currency gains.

Slide eight summarizes the quarterly change in worldwide oil equivalent production including volumes produced from oil sands in Canada. Production increased by 97,000 barrels per day or 4% between periods. Lower fourth quarter prices benefited volumes by 73,000 barrels per day primarily due to production sharing contracts and variable royalties. External constraints such as mandated curtailment by OPEC-member host governments and lower natural gas demand reduced production by 51,000 barrels per day.

As mentioned earlier, the fourth quarter was impacted by the September hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico. The volumetric effect was an adverse variance of 27,000 barrels per day. Base business declines of 17,000 barrels per day were more than offset by the ramp-up of production from the Tengiz expansion, Agbami, Blind Faith and the Northwest Shelf LNG Train 5.

Slide nine compares full year 2008 OEG production, including volumes produced from oil sands in Canada, to that of 2007. Price impacts on production sharing contracts and variable royalties reduced production by 72,000 barrels per day. WTI prices averaged $72 per barrel in 2007, in contrast to $100 per barrel in 2008. For the year, 2008 external constraints such as mandated curtailments by OPEC member host governments and lower natural gas demand reduced production by 13,000 barrels per day. The full year impact of Gulf of Mexico hurricanes was 35,000 barrels per day. Our base business decline was 78,000 barrels per day, a drop of about 3%. I'll discuss our outlook for the base business decline in a moment.

Finally, our major capital projects, primarily the Tengiz expansion, Agbami, and the further ramp-up of our 2007 Bibiyana field in Bangladesh added 109,000 barrels per day to 2008 production. Blind Faith came on-stream late in 2008 and did not have a large impact on the full year. 2008 production of 2.53 million barrels per day came in 120,000 barrels per day lower than the outlook we provided at the beginning of the year. The original 2008 outlook of 2.65 million barrels per day assumed crude prices for the year would average $70 per barrel, instead of the $100 average that actually occurred.

Price effects along with external constraints and the September hurricanes noted here were the primarily reasons for the difference. Our base business performed slightly better than we assumed. Offsetting this, we experienced a six month delay in the start-up of Blind Faith. The rest of our projects started on time but some ramped up more slowly than originally planned.

Slide 10 shows our production outlook for 2009. We had previously provided guidance for 2008 that each dollar change in crude prices would inversely change our production by about 2,000 barrels per day, due to the effect of production sharing and variable royalty agreements. Because certain thresholds have been reached under these agreements our rule of thumb for 2009 is each dollar change in crude prices affects production by roughly 1,200 barrels per day. As before, I would caution you that this rule of thumb is very approximate and actual results will differ. Each of the underlying contracts is different.

On this basis, comparing 2009 at an assumed price of $50 per barrel, which is just based on last week's future prices and 2008 at $100 per barrel, price effects would increase production by 60,000 barrels per day as shown on the chart. External constraints, again curtailments by OPEC member host governments and market factors, are assumed to reduce production by 80,000 barrels per day. Base business declines and the impact of lower investment in the base business are expected to reduce production by 180,000 barrels per day. This amount is an implied 7% decline rate in contrast to our previous 4% to 5% base decline guidance.

Due to lower expected oil and gas prices, spending on our base business to mitigate natural field declines will be reduced in 2009. We're still investing to mitigate these declines, but at a lower level, reflecting the lower level of oil on gas prices. The base barrels that we do not produce in 2009 will still be there to produce when market conditions are more attractive. Because of this temporarily higher base decline rate and market-driven investment deferrals, we do not expect to achieve our full 3% compound annual production growth between 2005 and 2010. We'll update you further at our annual security analyst meeting in New York on March 10th.

Finally, 2009 will benefit from the continued ramp-up and full year production from our recent major capital projects. And from the new ones planned to come online later this year including Frade in Brazil, Tahiti in the in the Gulf of Mexico and Tombua Landana in Angola.

Turning to slide 11, US downstream operations earned just over $1 billion, essentially flat with the previous quarter. Indicator margins reduced earnings by $260 million. While marketing margins improved, lower refining margins on the West and Gulf Coast were a larger factor. The change in the Company's realized margins tracked the change in indicator margins.

WTI prices fell more than $56 per barrel from the end of the third quarter to the end of the fourth quarter. This exceeded the $39 per barrel drop that occurred during the prior quarter. These sharply falling prices caused the downstream to have large favorable timing effects in both quarters. Timing effects were $80 million more favorable in the fourth quarter than the third. On an absolute basis, timing effects in the fourth quarter were about $700 million. The largest factor was provisionally priced foreign crude which was $370 million in the fourth quarter, about the same as it was in the third quarter.

In the previous conference call, I mentioned that the Company revised the primary long haul crude supply agreement to the West Coast refineries starting in October. However, August and September liftings were still final priced in October and November and prices were about $35 per barrel lower than at the end of the third quarter. We do not expect material timing effects from provisionally priced crudes in the first quarter for our US operations. The balance of the timing effects was primarily due to inventory effects, derivative gains associated with sale of refined products, a favorable lag in aviation pricing, and other supply related factors. Finally, operating expenses declined largely from lower fuel costs.

Turning to slide 12. International downstream earnings improved by $230 million to more than $1 billion. Refining margins were lower in the fourth quarter, while marketing margins were mixed. Overall, our realized margins fell $205 million between the sequential quarters. Volumes were slightly lower during the fourth quarter, partly reflecting planned maintenance at our Pembroke refinery in the UK. The volume effect was an adverse variance of $30 million.

Timing effects added $525 million to fourth quarter earnings compared to third quarter earnings. The absolute amount of timing effects in the fourth quarter was roughly $850 million. Nearly half of the increase between sequential quarters was related to derivative gains on long haul crude and refined products such as PNZ crude, Pembroke exports and crude sales to equity affiliate refineries. As I mentioned during the last few quarters, we often use derivatives to lock in a margin above the cost of transportation, which results in gains when prices decrease and vice versa.

The balance of the timing effect between quarters resulted from gains on derivatives used to convert crude pricing at the time of refinery run and a favorable lag in aviation pricing, as well as other supply-related timing factors. The "Other" bar in this chart reflects an adverse change of $60 million between quarters. Lower operating expense was more than offset by an adverse swing in foreign currency effects.

Slide 13 shows that earnings from chemical operations were $28 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $70 million in the third quarter. Results for Olefins decreased due to lower volumes and prices. Aromatics earnings fell primarily because of a one-time impairment charge. The "Other" bar reflects higher additive earnings.

Slide 14 covers all other net charges. Fourth quarter results were net charges of $365 million, compared to net charges of $190 million in the third quarter. $310 million of this swing reflects higher corporate charges across a number of areas. $70 million of the change stems from a favorable variance in tax items. The "Other" bar on slide 14 includes the net of many unrelated items which were a $65 million favorable variance between the sequential quarters.

Before turning it over to Dave, I'd just like to briefly recap the fourth quarter. Upstream earnings fell significantly in line with the interim update. Downstream continued to benefit from sizable derivative gains due to declining prices; also noted in the interim update. And last, as projected, chemical earnings were lower and all other charges exceeded the guidance range.

Dave O'Reilly will now summarize our 2008 strategic progress and provide some thoughts about 2009. Dave?

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, thank you, Jim. And turning to slide 15.

In 2008, we focused on execution and succeeded across the board. For several years, we've made improvements in our safety performance and were among the Best-in-Class. In our upstream business, we committed to starting up three major Chevron operated projects adding significantly to our long-term production. The Tengiz expansion, Agbami and Blind Faith are all on line and performing well. We also started the first phase of the North Duri steam flood in Indonesia and achieved first production at five partner operated projects.

We've talked about our exploration success for many years in a row and 2008 was another banner year for exploration, which we'll discuss further at the March security analyst meeting. We told the investment community that our reserve replacement ratio would improve and on a preliminary basis we estimate that we replaced 146% of our production in 2008. In our downstream business we pledged to improve refinery reliability. We delivered on that pledge in 2008 and we've had our best utilization rates on record. 2008 represented a 6.5% improvement in refinery utilization, over the base year of 2005. Our downstream portfolio rationalization has continued in 2008 as we exited a number of non-strategic markets.

And finally, we rewarded our shareholders with another double-digit increase in our dividend and repurchased $8 billion of our shares. We did so while funding our robust capital program and maintained a balance sheet with more cash than debt at the end of the year. So we enter these challenging times with the financial strength and flexibility to succeed in the years ahead.

Turning to slide 16, let's just look at 2009 briefly. In our upstream business we're on track to start up three more Chevron operated projects, further demonstrating our organic growth potential. We are also focused on the work needed to continue to advance our strategically important projects in core areas, such as Australia, and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. In the downstream business we're maintaining our focus on refinery utilization, to capture the most margin that the market will permit. And we're continuing to rationalize our portfolio to focus on our strongest markets and those with the most potential for long-term value creation.

Across the enterprise, we're focused on managing our costs. The same world class processes we use to manage costs when they are rising are now critical to realizing maximum savings on materials and services in a softening market. Combined with capital discipline, our attention to every element of our cost structure will ensure our success during this economic slowdown. Rewarding our shareholders, continuing our disciplined growth and maintaining our financial strength are all objectives we have been pursuing and will continue to pursue in 2009. Meeting our commitments to our investors, our communities and a world that has a long-term need for our products and services has been and will continue to be our priority.

I look forward to discussing the challenges and opportunities of 2009 and the years ahead at our meeting on March 10th in New York City.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We'll now take your questions. So that everyone has an opportunity to participate, please try to limit your follow-up questions to one or two. So Matt, please open the lines for questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Our first question comes from Mark Flannery from Credit Suisse. Your question, please.

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thank you. Yes, my question is on reserve replacements. And I know you have only preliminary numbers and you'll give us more details in March, but can you give us an early feel for how much the net pricing impact was on the end year reserve replacements and whether it was net positive, net negative, roughly how big?

DAVE O'REILLY: Mark, thank you. We've got -- we've had a great success with our reserves replacement this year in a number of areas. Some of the projects that we started up where we have conservatively booked reserves, we were able to revise upwards because we've now demonstrated through production more confidence in the reservoirs. We've also had some additions from contract extensions such as the PNZ and those will be disclosed in somewhat more detail when we get to our March meeting.

We did benefit, obviously, from price and my recollection is that we're in the -- the organic replacement for one year was above 80% or around 80%. The balance comes from price. So we've gained back in price some of what we lost -- a lot of what we lost over the last few years as the numbers went in the other direction, as price went upwards and reduced those reserves.

So now that I look over the last ten years, it's very gratifying to see that we are at greater than 100% reserve replacement over that long spread of time. So I feel good about where we are and we'll be covering that in more detail obviously in March. And you'll see a lot more disclosure in the 10-K as well. But thank you for the question.

MARK FLANNERY: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Robert Kessler from Simmons & Company. Your question, please.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY: Good morning and Pat, welcome to your new role. My question relates to your production guidance for 2009. Looking at the new implied base business decline rate of 7% and comparing that to your recent experience of 3% to 4%, I recognize you said there was a gap associated with lower spending. And if I look at your CapEx plan it looks like excluding the one-time payments it would have been down about $2.8 billion.

Is that the order of magnitude spending that you estimate would be required to flatten out or mitigate that decline right down to the 4% figure you typically experience? And why given, I would assume you would expect resilience in your portfolio down to $50 a barrel at least, why would you not go ahead and spend that amount in a deflationary oil field service environment?

DAVE O'REILLY: Okay. A lot of questions there. Generally, your observations are on the right track. But let me give you a reason why I think the primary reason why, and maybe even an example of why we think it's unwise to chase after barrels in this environment.

We're clearly pursuing our long-term strategic projects that require continued investment over the long term and I cited a number of examples of those. But let me talk about a very specific example of where we have consciously slowed down and that's in the Piceance. And there are two reasons for it. One is Colorado has instituted some pretty onerous environmental regulations that have made it a lot more difficult to get permits in a timely manner. So we were in the process of reducing our plans there, just from an environmental permitting standpoint. Also, the pricing outlook is looking a little tenuous in that area so we've slowed it down.

In the meantime, we do expect costs to come down in the goods and services and supplies and Oil field Services area. And as those costs come down, we'll obviously have a chance to re-evaluate our portfolio and make decisions to add more investment if we think it's appropriate. But in this environment, we think we're doing the right thing to back off the -- particularly the opportunities that we can come back to later, because in this case they are on fee land. And we're conscious here of the capital discipline that we need to exercise in order to make the right value decision.

So there are a number of those decisions that we've taken. We think they're the right thing to do in this market and we expect, as prices -- as costs come down, that we'll be -- and permitting requirements are met, that we'll be able to re-evaluate our position in the future, but I think in current circumstances, this is the right thing to do.

ROBERT KESSLER: Thank you for the color.

DAVE O'REILLY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Erik Mielke from Merrill Lynch. Your question please.

ERIK MIELKE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. I would also like to congratulate Pat on the new role and welcome to the quarterly conference circus. I would like to ask a question on the production outlook as well.

Given the experience you've had in 2008, are you being more conservative in your guidance for 2009, particularly with respect to the ramp-up from the major capital projects and on execution? And is there anything on the external factors that you can help us understand that number a little bit better? Is that 60,000 barrels per day based on the current run rate or is that projected further cuts by OPEC?

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, I think we are taking I think a realistic view as best we can of what is happening in the marketplace with OPEC and some market impacts. We showed an 80,000 barrels per day negative on what we call external factors. And basically that's roughly the way we see it, about half of that is market effects, half of it is OPEC with the OPEC impacts being primarily in Venezuela and some in Angola, a little bit in Nigeria.

The balance is market effects and gas in Asia. We saw a deterioration in the gas demand situation in Thailand for example, late in the year, and we just think that it's not wise for us to count on those markets bouncing back very quickly. They're still good for the long-term but in the near term, in '09, I think what we've done is given you the most realistic assessment that we can of what we call external factors. It's very hard to predict this with accuracy, but that's our best shot at it as we see it today.

ERIK MIELKE: Okay, thanks. Can I ask a follow-up? Just on foreign exchange there was quite a bit of noise in the quarter from foreign exchange. Are there any sort of handy rules of thumb that you can give us that we can use to maybe try to predict some of the overall exposure for the group?

JIM ALEVERAS: Erik, I'm afraid that's a very, very difficult challenge for us. Obviously, you see different factors come into play, depending on the timing of our acquisition of goods and services, depending on the net monetary asset and liability positions in different parts of the Company. In general, what we saw overall was the benefit in the fourth quarter of the strengthening dollar. But obviously, it hit different segments in different ways.

I wish I could provide better guidance than that but because of, again, the mix of components that goes into that, both what we buy, what we sell, as well as the assets and liabilities in our different international businesses, it's very, very difficult to give anything other than guidance that suggests the strengthening or weakening dollar would help or hurt our foreign exchange gains.

ERIK MIELKE: Okay. Fair enough. And finally, was there any significant under/over lift in international upstream in the fourth quarter?

JIM ALEVERAS: The fourth quarter we had an underlift relative to our production of about 5%. For the year as a whole we were essentially in balance.

ERIK MIELKE: Thanks so much.

DAVE O'REILLY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Michael LaMotte of JPMorgan. Your question, please.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you. Good morning. Question for Dave. The ministry of petroleum in Iraq seems pretty committed to moving forward with MSCs and awards in June of '09. I was wondering if you could give us your thoughts on what that might mean for Chevron this year.

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, I've just actually been in the Middle East this past month and there is -- there's certainly motivation on their part to move to some agreements I think in this year. So there's been a pickup of the pace. It's very hard to predict. Despite the -- I think good intentions by the government there to move prospects forward, there are limitations in the capacity of the ministries that just handle the volume of activity.

So this could be a year in which the -- some opportunities will get firmed up, but I don't know how to predict it, really. I would hate to go on record and say yes, something will happen this year. But we're clearly interested, as many others are. And we're clearly buying the appropriate packages and ready to move forward and make the appropriate proposals as the opportunities arise.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Thank you for that. I understand that it's difficult to predict, but just the fact that you're staying close to it really is what I was interested in getting.

DAVE O'REILLY: We are staying close to it. I can assure you of that.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Very good. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Neil McMahon from Sanford Bernstein. Your question, please.

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi. Just a few of them, sort of follows one from the other. Just a question on projects. Can you give us any update on Jack and St. Malo and the current challenges times, just wondering if you're doing the sensible thing and renegotiating any potential engineering contracts that you've awarded on those projects or in terms of FEED and also rig contracts? And also an update on where you are with the Reliance Petroleum option for Jamnagar?

DAVE O'REILLY: Okay. Let me start with the Jack and St. Malo and the lower tertiary in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. This is a very, very important trend and one that we're really focused on. We had a lot of success in the leasing rounds that just happened this year in the Gulf of Mexico and we have a fine portfolio I think of prospects in that trend.

We are continuing to move forward with Jack and St. Malo. And we're just now at the very early end of the front end engineering work. So this is an ideal time, we think, to be moving into the market as the costs of goods and services are coming down. This is a great opportunity for us and we'll certainly talk more about it in depth at the March analyst meeting. But let me assure you, this is one of our top priorities for the long-term, and one that's getting a lot of our attention and we think it's a good time for us to be starting to move into the market on these opportunities.

On Reliance, we are discussing with Reliance the opportunity there at the Jamnagar refinery. These are sensitive commercial discussions and I would prefer not to comment on them at the present time. But this is a year in which the situation there will clearly become clarified as we've been predicting for some time.

NEIL MCMAHON: Just a quick follow-up.

DAVE O'REILLY: Yes.

NEIL MCMAHON: On Jack and St. Malo. Given the fact that you're entering this, and it seems in a very logical and sensible manner, are we to presume then we're sort of talking middle of the decade before we see any significant production coming on from those lower tertiary developments?

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, it will be in the next decade since we're almost there. I would hope that we would have production before the middle of the decade at this point. This year though will be clearly one of a lot of engineering work. And I think we've come very close to selecting the optimum development plan, the conceptual development plan. So I would hope that by the middle of the decade we would have good production there, but I think we'll try to -- we'll try to predict that a little better for you in March when we see you all. Thank you.

NEIL MCMAHON: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs. Your question please.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Perhaps it's a little bit of a follow-up to the question on the base declines and the decision to spend less there and I appreciate part of it's the environmental Regs but also service costs are still high and as the oil prices come down. You still have otherwise though a very robust capital program and it seems like costs have been inflated in the industry across the board.

Perhaps some of those major development projects you can't stop at this point because you're already in the middle of them. But if there's perhaps cost concerns in going through with the base business, wouldn't that also be true of the growth projects that you're not really slowing those down? Just trying to reconcile those two things.

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, thanks, Arjun. Let me comment on that. We sanctioned actually very few projects in 2007 and 2008. Many of the projects that came on-stream in 2008 and are coming on in 2009 were sanctioned and most of the expenditures and commitments to spend were made in the 2003, '04, '05 period. So we are -- while, yes, there are some -- there's clearly been some cost escalation, none of these projects were launched and made major commitments to at the peak of costs.

So we are in fact I think in a very good position, because the next projects that we sanction in our queue will be going out for requests for proposal in '09 and in 2010. And this we think is a good window for that because costs are clearly softening. There's a little bit of a lag. But on the other hand, we've seen costs come down quite a bit faster than they have in the past, which tells you that I think we could be hitting the sweet spot here for some of these projects. Hard to predict, but clearly that's going to be part of our thinking.

And we believe that these major projects that are good for our long-term will be cost competitive in this environment. Now, obviously, if we're wrong about that, we have the flexibility to go back to investing more in the base business, if those costs justify it. But we think we're making the right balanced decision here and given the slack in the market, its good timing.

ARJUN MURTI: Dave, that's actually really helpful comment and I appreciate that. Does that suggest that the '09 budget then -- or let me try it another way. I guess are you confident that you'll be able to sanction these and that the negotiations in this sort of very uncertain environment can get done to then be able to sanction them and move forward? Or is the '09 budget is then perhaps overstated, I don't want to use the word overstated, but higher than likely level of spending?

And as you get through these negotiations and sanction the projects it's more the '10 and '11 CapEx that will be more robust? I guess it is a very high level of CapEx. I don't have a an issue with it. I hear you but we are still spending a decent amount in '09.

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, yes. Look, if -- clearly, if we can't justify and don't feel comfortable with the costs relative to outlook for the business, we would wait, I think is the best way of putting it. We have some flexibility on some of these major projects. But I think the reality that we see in the marketplace right now is we think this is a good time to be going back in the market. And if we're wrong, well, then, obviously these numbers are too high and we'll back off.

But I think we're seeing signs that this market is changing more rapidly than it has in the past. I think the suppliers of goods and services to our industry realize that they're in a different environment as well. They want -- the ones that are in it for the long term clearly want our business. And they'll be modifying their pricing appropriately. So I think some of that's going to occur.

ARJUN MURTI: Thank you very much. I appreciate it.

DAVE O'REILLY: You're welcome, Arjun.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Paul Cheng from Barclays Capital. Your question, please.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Good morning, guys.

DAVE O'REILLY: Good morning.

PAUL CHENG: Dave, when you're talking about the cost reduction that you're expecting, how receptive so far with your negotiations with your vendor, I mean are they receptive, recognize that that change is coming down? And how quickly that you think the lower costs may start to flow through into your results and benefiting you guys? From that aspect, that when you're talking about lower tertiary, wondering if you can talk about Gorgon, George was thinking about potentially sanctioning in the second half 2009 and if the market conditions may have changed that expectation at this point?

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, let me just kind of -- I think I've commented on the lower tertiary already but let me just talk about Australia and Gorgon for a moment. We are on track we believe to sanctioning that project late in the year. Again, we think this is good timing. We're currently in the market with RFPs. The Australian dollar has weakened significantly. There's a lot of capacity now in the labor force in Australia, as many of the resource industries have deferred activity in mining and other activities.

So there's a lot of interest in this project. And I think this is, again, a good time for us to be out in the market, beginning to assess and call for prices for equipment and for services and construction. So how it will turn out, will remain to be seen. But we're very -- we're bullish on Gorgon and believe that's one we hope we'll be able to tie up and create something long-term for the Company sometime late in the year.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Can I have a follow-up?

DAVE O'REILLY: Sure.

PAUL CHENG: Dave. In the last three years, rightfully so after your Unocal acquisition, the Company has been focusing on the organic projects and not really looked that much on the M&A market. Wondering if the view has changed given the market conditions has changed and asset price has deflated? And sometimes people would say that you want to be a counter cyclical buyer. Not asking for specifics, just want to see what is the management's view about that subject?

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, two answers to that question. First of all, we clearly have a great organic queue of projects here that we're continuing to pursue and invest in. And we believe that certainly compared to our size, we have -- we're among the best in the industry in that area and that we're fueling that in the background with continued success in our exploration program.

Look, we're not blind to what's going on in the world around us and we make assessments of the opportunities. But those are hard to predict and I would prefer not to comment on them. But clearly, we're not blind to looking for other opportunities as well. But our priority in 2009 I think is going to be on advancing these projects and bringing them to market as well as starting up the ones that are in the commissioning phase that Jim referred to in his remarks a few minutes ago.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

DAVE O'REILLY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Jason Gammel from Macquarie. Your question please.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: Thank you. I would like to add my congratulations to Pat as well on your new role. Dave, you've had a lot of specific questions today relative to some of the projects you have captured. I think you just marked your ninth anniversary as CEO. I was just hoping I would just ask a broader question, how would you assess the state of your investment opportunities now relative to where it's been over the course of your tenure?

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, thanks, Jason. I think the depth and quality of our queue of opportunities is stronger than any time it's been in that nine years. There are -- and I say that not just based on the projects that we've been talking about very specifically and that we've had a number of questions on this morning, but also the success we're continuing to have with our exploration program that tells me that that's going to lead to future developments in the next decade that will be value-creating for the Company for the long term. So I see us in a very, very strong position and I feel very good about the opportunities that we have in the years ahead.

JASON GAMMEL: That's appreciated. Maybe as a follow-up, I could ask another open-ended one. What do you see as the two or three biggest challenges facing the Company over the next two to three years?

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, clearly, managing through this uncertain period, which is something we've done before a number of times as a Company and as an industry. We are clearly in a more challenging environment with lower demand. It's been about 20 -- I think we have to go back to the early '80s to see two years of back to back oil demand decline in the -- I think that's right. We have to go back to the early '80s. So we had a modest decline globally last year. It's projected there will be another one this year.

So managing our costs and staying focused on the long-term I think is clearly our objective here and we're in a good position to do it because of our strong balance sheet. And because we de-levered during the good times, so that we have that flexibility during the tougher times. The second item I think is the whole issue of carbon management over the next five years or so, as the world tries to struggle with how to value carbon and how that affects the business.

So I see those as two challenges over the next couple years. One we've been through before a number of times and we're kind of -- we're used to it, the cyclical activity. But I think we're moving into an area where we'll be dealing with this new issue and I don't mean new in the European sense where we're already managing it quite well, but I mean in a global sense. As more and more people or countries sign up for carbon management and the impacts on the business will clearly be there and how we manage in that environment I think is going to be -- the people that manage successfully in that environment will do better than those that don't.

JASON GAMMEL: I appreciate that context. Thanks, Dave.

DAVE O'REILLY: You're welcome, thank you, Jason.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank. Your question, please.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hello, everyone. I just would like to carry on a little bit on the CapEx question, if I could, further really to what Argun was asking. I understood that you had quite a significant FX benefit from a stronger dollar, perhaps as much as a 10% to 20% implied benefit given that a lot of your spending obviously is abroad. Which again would have led me to think that perhaps your CapEx number would come down. You've also as we've covered said you stepped back in US, somewhat in US spending. Could you just help me rationalize that particular part of the balance? Thanks.

DAVE O'REILLY: I don't think we saw a significant benefit in CapEx on the strengthening dollar in '08. A lot of that dollar strengthening occurred very, very late in the year. And it's very -- so basically these numbers reflect -- the '08 numbers certainly reflect an average year. As Jim said, it's very hard to predict this. We're in unchartered waters. The dollar has been a safe haven at the moment and some other currencies have declined. But if clearly some of these numbers could change if there were more dramatic changes in the relative valuations of currencies. But I just don't think I feel comfortable about trying to predict 2009, but I do feel comfortable telling you that 2008 did not see significant benefit.

PAUL SANKEY: No, Dave, I was really thinking about 2009 relative to 2008 and that all things equal, would the move that we had in foreign currencies, we would have thought your CapEx would step down, especially when you then add on a somewhat lower level of spending in the US.

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, there's perhaps a little bit of a step down in a few areas but remember that when you look at the budget here, about 10% of that budget is for one-time payments for concession extensions. So the budget has come down by about 10% and part of that is built into that 10%. Our current assessment of that. But that's again -- it's a prediction and nobody really, truly knows how the relative exchange rates are going to turn out. It's a fool's game to try to over guess it.

PAUL SANKEY: Great, thanks. And then if I could just briefly on the buyback, I believe you said you would not be buying back shares in Q1. Could you talk a little bit about that decision relative to obviously what we said about CapEx, what we said perhaps about M&A as well? Thanks.

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, I'm going to turn it over to Pat to talk about our financial priorities. She's been sitting here patiently. And you've all been congratulating her. She needs to chime in here on this subject as the keeper of the balance sheet. So Pat?

PATRICIA YARRINGTON: Okay. Well, thanks, Dave. I was feeling like I was turning into a potted plant here for a moment. But thanks for the question. Our financial priorities really are from a cash standpoint sustaining and growing the dividend. Then, funding the capital program that we have where we've got projects that earn good returns over a viable, vast range of commodity prices. And then maintaining our financial strength and flexibility. So we've always seen the share repurchase program as sort of the discretionary part of that and we're just indicating certainly for the first quarter of 2009 that we're not going to have a continuation of that repurchase program.

PAUL SANKEY: I guess you would expect debt to rise even slower in Q1?

PATRICIA YARRINGTON: I think that that's a reasonable expectation. We did as Dave said, we de-levered when the times were right, giving us that flexibility now when revenue stream has come down and our cost structure obviously is adjusting but perhaps not quite as rapidly. So I think you could expect to see modest increase in the debt balance in first quarter. We're very well-positioned, though even at low sustained prices to have a very strong balance sheet.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. Pat, well I didn't congratulate you so I will. Congratulations. And thanks.

PATRICIA YARRINGTON: Thank you.

DAVE O'REILLY: Thanks for the questions, Paul.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Mike Matus from Merrill Lynch. Your question, please.

DAVE O'REILLY: Hello, Mike.

MICHAEL MATUS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I'm sorry. It's been answered. Thank you.

DAVE O'REILLY: Okay. You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Mark Gilman from Benchmark. Your question, please.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: Folks, good morning. Had a couple things, if I could please. Was there any change in the fiscal terms that was agreed upon associated with the extension of the concession to PNZ, Dave?

DAVE O'REILLY: The fundamental terms are the same, Mark.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. And the production outlook for 2009, and the price effect therein, are there any thresholds that are included in that under the $50 a barrel assumption?

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, the $50 barrel we picked from the strip price. We did hit some thresholds when the prices were high back in -- you're talking about production sharing thresholds?

MARK GILMAN: Yes. Costs were cumulative -- capital cost recovery or rate of return or cumulative production, any of the things that went into Jim's comments regarding the change in the sensitivity.

DAVE O'REILLY: Yes, Jim, why don't you deal with that one for me, please.

JIM ALEVERAS: Mark, the changes that we saw in 2008 and we did hit some thresholds in 2008, were why we had the higher number, the higher volume impact per dollar per barrel of change in price in crude. Looking ahead to 2009, since we've already crossed those thresholds, we see a lower volume impact per dollar change in crude prices.

MARK GILMAN: Yes, Jim, but what I'm asking is are any threshold impacts built into the 60,000 a day price effect as part of your 2009 forecast?

JIM ALEVERAS: Not many. Most of them are behind us, which is why the number has come down.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Dave, can I infer from your Jack, St. Malo comment that the appraisal wells that had been drilling were successful?

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, I think we're going to report on the appraisal I think in March. But I think you can infer that we're on the right track and we'll give you a lot more detail in March.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Just one final clarification. Dave, regarding the 80% organic reserve replacement in '08, does that include the reserves associated with the concession extension at PNZ.

DAVE O'REILLY: Yes, and you'll see more detail in the K.

MARK GILMAN: Thank you.

DAVE O'REILLY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Next question is from Erik Mielke from Merrill Lynch. Your question.

ERIK MIELKE: I'm sorry for asking another question. I just thought I would ask for an update on Chuandongbei, given you've been running through the other key projects. In your CapEx statement you said you have an initial payment, so but the bonus payment and then also some initial development. If you can give us some guidance on where you expect to take that in 2009?

DAVE O'REILLY: Well, yes. Thanks, Erik, we are progressing with the construction work in Chuandongbei. So, it's actively moving forward. And yes, that is included, the appropriate capital is included in our program. We view that as another long-term project that will benefit the Company for many years to come. Decades to come. So yes, that one's on track compared to what we've told you basically last year and again we'll be updating in the March meeting. But thank you for the question.

ERIK MIELKE: Was it part of your reserve bookings for '08?

DAVE O'REILLY: You'll see the details in the 10-K. I can't answer that right now. But you'll see the details in the 10-K.

ERIK MIELKE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our final question is from Mark Gilman from Benchmark. Your question, please.

MARK GILMAN: Guys, the exploration spend component in 2009 capital budget versus 2008, give me an idea what it is.

JIM ALEVERAS: It's about flat between 2009 and 2008.

MARK GILMAN: Level, Jim?

JIM ALEVERAS: Pretty much so, yes, Mark.

MARK GILMAN: I mean, the dollar amount.

DAVE O'REILLY: A little bit more appraisal I think in -- balanced between appraisal versus pure exploration. But we're going to go through a very detailed review of our exploration program and our plans for '09 very specifically in our -- in the analyst meeting.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Thanks, folks.

DAVE O'REILLY: You're very welcome. I think it's time to wind it up, Matt. Unless there are other questions?

OPERATOR: At this time I show no further questions.

DAVE O'REILLY: Good. Well, thank you very much for listening. We appreciate everyone's participation in the call. We want to thank you for your questions this morning and look forward to seeing you all or many of you in March in New York. So, Matt, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090213e51u001p7
  


 HD
 Q3  2008  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,229 words
   PD
31 October 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2008 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's third quarter 2008 earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I will now turn the conference over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Steve Crowe. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
STEVE CROWE, VP, CFO, CHEVRON: Thanks, Matt. Welcome to Chevron's third quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are George Kirkland, Executive Vice President - Global Upstream and Gas, and Jim Aleveras, General Manager - Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2008. We will refer to the slides that are available on the web. Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.

I'll begin with slide 3 which provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's third quarter earnings were a record $7.9 billion, or $3.85 per diluted share. Our third quarter 2008 results were more than double our third quarter 2007 earnings. Higher crude oil and natural gas prices contributed to our upstream performance. Our downstream operations benefited from improved margins, strong refinery utilization and from timing effects related to the substantial drop in the price of oil during the third quarter.

Third quarter 2008 earnings rose over 30% compared with the second quarter 2008, which Jim will discuss shortly. To recap the balance of slide 3, return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 27%. Capital and exploratory spending was $5.5 billion for the quarter. Stock buybacks were $2 billion during the period. Underscoring Chevron's financial strength, the debt ratio was below 8% at the end of the quarter and cash balances exceeded debt by $4 billion. Jim will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jim?

JIM ALEVERAS, GM-IR, CHEVRON: Thanks, Steve. My remarks compare the results of the third quarter 2008 with the second quarter 2008. As a reminder, our earnings release compared third quarter 2008 with the same quarter a year ago. Turning to slide 4, third quarter net income was $1.9 billion higher than the second quarter. Starting with the left side of the chart, lower crude oil and natural gas realizations and lower volumes reduced worldwide upstream results by more than $1 billion. At the same time, the significant decrease in crude oil prices during the quarter benefited the downstream segment which improved nearly $2.6 billion from the second quarter's loss position. The variance in the residual "Other" bar largely reflects the absence of charges at the corporate level that were taken in the prior quarter.

Slide 5 summarizes the results of our U.S. upstream operations which were essentially unchanged between quarters. Lower crude oil and natural gas realizations reduced earnings by $130 million. Chevron's average US crude oil realization was down $1.75 per barrel between consecutive quarters. This was less than the roughly $5.50 per barrel decline in WTI spot prices between quarters since much of our Gulf of Mexico crude oil production is priced on a lagged basis. Production volumes were down 8% between quarters, primarily due to hurricane-related shut-ins during September. These reduced earnings by $195 million. Additionally, as we mentioned in the interim update, expenses related to the hurricanes reduced earnings by roughly $400 million. These included incremental costs to abandon toppled platforms, asset write-offs and initial repairs. George will discuss our hurricane recovery efforts in more detail in a few minutes.

Asset sales added about $350 million to third quarter profits. These included a non-operated interest in the K2 property along with other smaller property sales. The "Other" bar on this chart is the net of everything else. The largest single item was higher earnings in our natural gas marketing division, including gains on derivatives related to gas contracts. The magnitude of these gains was directly related to the drop in natural gas prices during the quarter.

Turning to slide 6, International upstream earnings for the third quarter fell about $1.1 billion from the second quarter's results. Lower oil and natural gas prices reduced earnings by $260 million. Our average unit realizations for liquids fell about $7.70 per barrel between sequential quarters, roughly $1.50 per barrel more than the average Brent spot price decline. Lower liftings had a $635 million adverse impact on third quarter earnings. The largest reduction was in Kazakhstan, reflecting lower production which I'll cover in the next slide. Liftings were also lower in Azerbaijan, Angola, Congo and China. Overall, third quarter liftings were about 2% less than production, while we were slightly overlifted in the second quarter. So nine months liftings and production were roughly in balance.

More than half of the adverse change in the "DD&A and OpEx" bar on the chart reflected impairments of several mature fields in the North Sea. Operating expense was higher due to labor and transportation costs and start-up costs of our Agbami project. The "Other" bar is the net of foreign exchange effects partly offset by the absence of favorable prior-quarter tax items and numerous unrelated matters.

Slide 7 summarizes the quarterly change in worldwide oil-equivalent production, including volumes produced from oil sands in Canada. Production fell by 94,000 barrels per day or nearly 4% between periods. U.S. production declined 55,000 barrels per day chiefly as a result of shut-ins during September for hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Outside the U.S., overall production dropped 39,000 barrels per day in the third quarter. In Kazakhstan, most of the 55,000-barrel-per-day reduction reflected completion of TCO's Second Generation Plant and concurrent annual facility maintenance. These had a larger impact than we expected at the time of last quarter's call. Lower production at Karachaganak was also a factor. The increase in Nigerian volumes was due to the start-up of our Agbami project in late July. George will provide the outlook for production in the fourth quarter of 2008 shortly.

Turning to slide 8, U.S. downstream operations moved from a $680 million loss in the second quarter to a $1 billion profit in the third quarter. Industry margins reduced earnings by $180 million. Chevron's actual margin capture and higher volumes in the third quarter increased earnings by $100 million and partly offset the decline in industry indicator margins. Due to significantly less planned refinery down time in the third quarter, earnings improved by $380 million. Chevron's U.S. refineries operated with minimal down time.

Given the extraordinary volatility of crude oil and refine product prices and their impact on our downstream earnings, we have highlighted timing effects during the last few quarterly calls. West Texas Intermediate prices fell more than $39 per barrel from the end of the second quarter to the end of the third quarter. This compares to an increase of over $38 per barrel during the previous quarter. The unprecedented swing in prices during each period resulted in an earnings change of $1.3 billion between sequential quarters.

Of this $1.3 billion favorable variance shown on the bar, about $700 million reflected the impact of provisionally priced foreign crudes which lowered second quarter earnings on an absolute basis by $340 million and increased third quarter earnings by $360 million. About $200 million of the $1.3 billion total was the swing from losses to gains in marked-to-market derivatives related to a long-term fixed price crude purchase contract. Over $120 million of the $1.3 billion reflected the absence of second quarter derivative losses related to converting crudes from the acquisition price to the price at the time they were run. We discontinued most of our derivative use for crude price conversion in the U.S. in early June. The balance of the timing effects primarily resulted from a favorable change in derivative impacts related to the sales of refined products and from gains due to the timing of aviation fuel pricing and all other supply-related timing effects.

We have revised our primary long-haul crude supply agreement for our West Coast refineries. Beginning with October liftings, all barrels will be priced at the average price during the month of lifting rather than at the time of discharge. This change will eliminate provisional pricing on these crudes and we expect it to significantly reduce the timing effects in our U.S. downstream earnings. However, fourth quarter earnings will include the impacts of final pricing adjustments for October and November deliveries that were lifted during the third quarter. Returning to the chart, the "Other" bar is largely due to better lubricant margins and the absence of pipeline impairments I mentioned last quarter.

Turning to slide 9, International downstream earnings improved to $817 million from the second quarter's loss. Margins were a minor favorable item as improved marketing margins overcame weaker refining margins. Volumes benefited slightly following completion of repairs at our Pembroke refinery in the U.K. As in the U.S., international downstream timing effects were a major factor in the favorable change between quarters as the price of crude and petroleum products fell significantly. Of the $860 million favorable timing effects shown in the bar, more than half was related to derivative gains on sales of long-haul equity crude and refined products, such as Partition Neutral Zone crude and Pembroke product exports.

As I mentioned last quarter, we often use derivatives to lock in a margin above the cost of transportation, which can result in gains when prices decrease and vice versa. More than $100 million of the $860 million total shown in the bar reflected gains in the third quarter as compared to losses in the second quarter on derivatives used to convert crude pricing to the time of refinery run. The balance of the timing effects is primarily due to favorable inventory impacts, gains due to the timing of aviation fuel pricing and all other supply-related timing effects.

Going forward, we are taking actions as appropriate to reduce the volatility of this segment to price fluctuations. The "Other" bar on the slide shows a $51 million adverse variance between quarters. This is the net of foreign exchange gains offset by operating costs and tax items. Slide 10 shows that earnings from chemical operations were $70 million in the third quarter compared to $41 million in the second quarter. Results for Olefins improved on higher margins along with lower operating expense. Aromatics results fell somewhat due to the start--up costs for the Jubail Chevron Phillips styrene operation. The "Other" bar reflects lower additive earnings.

Slide 11 covers All Other. Third quarter results were net charges of $190 million compared to net charges of $580 million in the second quarter. $190 million of the swing reflects lower environmental charges and $110 million stems from a favorable variance in tax items. The "Other" bar on slide 11 includes the net of many unrelated items which were a favorable variance between sequential quarters. In total, the third quarter net charge was less than our standard guidance of $250 million to $300 million for the various reasons stated in the Interim Update.

Before turning it over to George, I would just like to briefly recap the third quarter. Upstream earnings and volumes were down somewhat, in line with the Interim Update. We experienced a strong improvement in downstream performance due to timing effects arising from sharply declining crude and product prices and less refinery downtime, also as outlined in the Interim Update. Finally, as projected, Chemical results benefited from higher margins. George Kirkland is now going to provide an update on our production outlook for 2008, our hurricane recovery plans and our upstream project status through 2009. George?

GEORGE KIRKLAND, EVP UPSTREAM AND GAS, CHEVRON: Thanks, Jim. Before I update you on the major capital projects, I'd like to review our production. Please turn to slide 13. This graph compares net OEG production through the first nine months of 2008 versus the first nine months of last year. Total OEG production through the third quarter was 2.53 million barrels per day. Although production is down 95,000 barrels per day, about 80,000 barrels per day of this loss is attributable to price effects on the net entitlement barrels and 17,000 barrels a day is attributable to the disruptions from hurricanes Gustav and Ike in the Gulf of Mexico. I'll discuss the hurricane impacts in just a few moments.

Despite these losses, we have been very successful in managing our base business declines and capturing gains from major capital projects that have recently come on-line. The low base business decline is a positive indicator of our base business efforts where we have experienced improved reliability across the enterprise. Adjusting for favorable gas market conditions in the Asia Pacific region and the Indonesian unitization settlement, our base business decline rate is approaching the low end of our 4% to 5% decline guidance.

Now I'll update you on the production outlook for the remainder of the year. Please turn to slide 14. Assuming fourth quarter prices will average approximately $70 a barrel and thereby approximately $100 a barrel for the whole year, our 2008 production outlook is estimated at 2.55 million barrels of oil equivalent per day. This graph compares the 2008 outlook to year-to-date third quarter actuals and our fourth quarter production outlook. The last bar on the right shows the 2008 guidance provided last January. Absent the yearly price effects of about 60,000 barrels per day, and hurricane disruptions which we estimate to be about 35,000 barrels per day, the full-year net production would be in line with the prior guidance. The fourth quarter production forecast is estimated at 2.62 million barrels per day, significantly higher than year-to-date actuals. This is driven by two factors -- the continued ramp-up of our major capital projects principally Agbami and the Tengiz Expansion, and lower prices.

Project ramp-ups are estimated to add approximately 170,000 barrels per day during the quarter. The impact of lower prices on net entitlement barrels associated with production sharing contracts will likely increase production by about 45,000 barrels per day during the quarter. Offsetting these gains are hurricane disruptions which are estimated at 65,000 barrels per day for the quarter and the continued base business declines which includes ongoing operational difficulties in Azerbaijan.

I would now like to spend a few moments to provide additional details on the hurricanes. Please turn to slide 15. This slide shows the trajectory of hurricanes Gustav and Ike with respect to Chevron leases in the Gulf of Mexico. The leases are shown in yellow. The wind field for Hurricane Gustav is shown in red and for Hurricane Ike in green. We are pleased to report that there were zero safety incidents associated with the evacuation of personnel from our offshore facilities. 3,500 personnel were safely evacuated for Gustav and 1,500 for Ike. We did sustain damage from the storms. Overall, there were 13 toppled structures, 4 leaning structures and 3 missing wellheads. The long-term impact of this damage on production is not great. It is estimated that between 6,000 to 10,000 barrels a day will be permanently lost.

In the deepwater areas, there was some minor damage sustained at Petronius and Genesis where production is now being restored. There was no damage to the Blind Faith facility, and only minor damage to Tahiti. I would now like to share an update on the current restoration effort and forecast. If you would, please turn to slide 16.

This chart shows the anticipated net OEG production restoration profile by month. The actual restored production to date is shown in the solid blue line and the outlook is in the dashed line. Pre-Gustav, production from the Gulf of Mexico averaged about 190,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. As of this week, total restored production is 55% of pre-storm levels. Of the remaining production to be restored, about three-quarters is dependent on the timing of third-party pipeline repairs. Let me assure you we have a dedicated team of professionals actively working with our partners and stakeholders to keep our restoration efforts on track. I'd now like to provide an update on our major capital projects. Please turn to slide 17.

Chevron has reached some critical major capital project milestones in 2008. So far this year, six projects have started up. It is also anticipated that another two will start up in the fourth quarter. North Duri Area 12 in Indonesia and Blind Faith in the Gulf of Mexico. On July 29, our Nigerian affiliate commenced crude oil production from the Agbami field. This is a significant accomplishment. Agbami's initial gross oil equivalent production has ramped up to more than 110,000 barrels per day. We anticipate the ramp-up to continue, reaching 250,000 barrels per day by the end of 2009.

On September 22, our Tengizchevroil affiliate completed a major expansion in the Tengiz field in Kazakhstan that has nearly doubled production capacity to 540,000 barrels per day. Remember that the first phase of this expansion started up during the fourth quarter of 2007. All phases are now complete and commissioned. In Western Australia, on September 1, the fifth train at the North West Shelf Venture's liquefied natural gas facility became operational. This production facility is expected to increase the joint venture's export capacity by about 4 million metric tons of LNG annually to 16.3 million metric tons. During the second quarter, in conjunction with our joint venture partners, first oil was achieved from the Moho-Bilondo field in the Republic of Congo. Please turn to slide 18. Other projects that have achieved first production during the first three quarters of 2008 are ACG phase III in Azerbaijan and Brodgar-Callanish in the United Kingdom.

I'll now touch on the remaining project start-ups for 2008. In the Gulf of Mexico, the last stages of commissioning are taking place at the Blind Faith facility and first oil is anticipated in November. There was no damage to the facility during Hurricane Ike, but it did disrupt commissioning activities. In Indonesia, the next phase development at the heavy oil Duri field remains on schedule and is also expected to start up in November.

Now let's turn to slide 19. Looking forward to 2009, I'd like to provide you with the status on the major capital project milestones that are anticipated next year. Let's start in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater with our Tahiti project. The project is progressing on schedule. The spar hull was installed during the first quarter and the topside modules during the third quarter of this year. The facility sustained minor damage during Hurricane Ike and will be repaired during ongoing hookup and commissioning activities. However, this will not delay the project and we still anticipate first oil by the third quarter of 2009. In Brazil at the Frade field, construction of the FPSO is 85% complete with a sail away from Dubai expected in late December. First oil is expected during the second quarter of 2009. In Angola, the Tombua Landana project remains on schedule to meet first oil during the second half of 2009. The hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico did not significantly impact the schedule for sail away of the various compliant piled tower components. The large scale steam pilot project in the Partitioned Neutral Zone also remains on schedule. If this pilot is successful, it will lead to a phased full-field development at Wafra. First steam injection is expected during early 2009.

Finally, I would like to provide a summary of other key 2008 upstream highlights. Please turn to slide 20. On September 10, we announced the extension and amendment of the Partitioned Neutral Zone operating agreement with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. This agreement extends the existing arrangement for 30 years through 2039. In Canada, at the Hebron field, formal binding agreements were signed in August between Hebron project proponents and the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador. These agreements pave the way for the project to proceed. During the third quarter Chevron transferred operatorship to ExxonMobil following ratification by co-venture partners. In Australia, our LNG projects are progressing toward key milestones. At Gorgon, the joint venture is pursuing a project scope of three 5 million metric tons per annum LNG trains. A Final Investment Decision is expected after environmental approvals have been provided by the State and Commonwealth for the third train proposal, and following the completion of engineering and design.

Wheatstone, which represents a tremendous growth opportunity for Chevron Australia, is progressing towards FEED. It builds on our extensive natural gas resources in Western Australia, and is expected to make our company a leading natural gas supplier and operator of LNG facilities in the Asia Pacific region. We announced our intention during the first quarter to develop Wheatstone as a green field onshore LNG and domestic gas project. And finally, at Chuandongbei we expect the initial FID by the end of this year. The appropriate engineering and design work required to sanction the project work -- the project is on track. We assumed operational control of the existing operations in August. This concludes the project update and now I'll turn it back over to Steve.

STEVE CROWE: Thank you, George. That concludes our prepared remarks. We will now take your questions -- one question and one follow-up per caller, please. Matt, open the lines for questions. Thanks.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Our first question is from Mark Flannery from Credit Suisse. Your question, please.

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, yes. Just a question for George. We are coming into budgeting season, things are looking very different on the commodities side. Nobody really knows what's going to happen in 2009, of course, but given what's happened to oil prices, could you tell me what you're thinking about when you think about the '09 CapEx budget for the upstream, particularly with regard to the more capital intensive end of the spectrum. I'm not looking for a number because I know we won't get one but just what's your thought process around that right now?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Let's first start off that we haven't finished our budgeting process. We are going through the approval process. We have been working through that. Our thought processes are any project that has already moved into construction past FID, those projects will move very much through their cycle, would never slow those down. And we anticipate trying to hold our capital spending pretty much in line of where we have been this year. We don't like fluctuating our capital spend up and down. Our view on pricing really has not -- our long-term view on pricing has not changed, so I would look at this point at capital spending very similar between years and recognize if we have something different we want to change, we have flexibility on near-term projects, not our long-term projects. We really can't back off our long-term projects.

STEVE CROWE: Mark, let me just expand a little bit on just the mechanics that George alluded to. We are right in the middle now of finalizing our business plans and the capital spending for 2009 and per our normal practice, it would be our intention to have a release and provide the 2009 capital program some time around the middle of December. So about six weeks from now I think would be the approximate time you'll hear our final program for next year.

STEVE CROWE: Do you have a follow-up question?

MARK FLANNERY: I do and it's on the same topic. I guess I would -- I wondered, George, could you characterize the capital expenditure program that you have or are putting together for 2009, how much of that would you describe as fully discretionary, i.e., not part of projects that have gone through FID, not part of projects about to meet FID, that kind of thing. What's the wiggle room, would you think, in the budget?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Just an estimate without numbers in front of me and recognizing that probably 75%, 80% of our project expenditures are related to projects that are post-FID, so those are pretty far along at this point. So there's not a lot of wiggle room in the first year. Our wiggle room and capital spending is much greater in the second year of our budget cycle and, of course, very large amount in our third year of our budget cycle.

MARK FLANNERY: That's very helpful. Thank you very much.

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Mark. May we have the next questioner, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Paul Cheng of Barclays Capital. Your question, please.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, Gentlemen.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Hi, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: My question is related to the CapEx. I know you're not going to talk about numbers, I'm not asking that. George, when you're looking at what the potential of oil services costs and the raw material costs coming down, is there a trade-off if a certain project if you delay it, even if they are already FID, delay it, you may be able to get a much lower cost structure so want to see that, I mean, how you view on that?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, there's no doubt for projects that are -- have not reached FID where you don't have contracts with the -- and what we are expecting is we are expecting that the cost of goods and services are going to come down. So we would, I think, look very strongly at slight movements on projects that made sense from the cost of building them. If it's going to come down, we would look at sliding those a little bit. I actually see this as a real opportunity for companies like Chevron. I do expect the cost of goods and services to come down. I think the financing is going to hurt others to move projects forward, so my expectation is shipyards and equipment manufacturers, there will be less pressure on them than there's been, so I think there's going to be some benefit for some of our future big projects with cost reductions.

STEVE CROWE: Paul, did you have a follow-up question?

PAUL CHENG: Yes, if I could. Yes, actually somewhat unrelated. Tengiz now is at 540,000 barrels a day. I think that's a long-term objective as the field ultimately gets to 700,000 barrels per day plus. Wanted to see if George had any update of where we are in that process.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Let me deal with the expansion. Our expansion, the nameplate on it was 540. We have reached that and we don't yet know if we can get a few more barrels out of it, but my expectation is we are probably going to be able to get a few more barrels and maybe by our March meeting with the analysts, we'll have a little more word on that to see if we have been able to increase the capacity further. We are also -- I believe I mentioned that our analysts meeting in -- earlier in March this year, that we were looking at the next expansion for Tengiz. We would like to move that engineering work forward as fast forward as we can. We have learned an awful lot about what we can do about big, big projects in the Kazakhstan area of where we operate Tengiz, so it is a good time to be ready to move forward with the next expansion and we will know a little more information about the performance, of course, on the gas injection as the year plays on out. So I think all of those things line up for us to want to move the next expansion forward. Of course we have to get our partners and -- all of our partners on board with that.

PAUL CHENG: George, can I put in a quick question in here. For Tengiz, was the SGP, you guys will be able to book more reserve this year?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think as a little premature to talk about reserves. We are just in the process of going through our reserve reviews around the world and I would really rather wait to talk about reserve bookings preferably actually until the March meeting when by that time we have done all our work.

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Paul. And I would just add that the current SEC rules are still in place, although they have come out with a proposal for modification of the definition, but it's still using prices at a point in time at the end of 2008 and, as George mentioned, we may have some preliminary numbers that we can share with you in terms of reserves in the January call, but we don't really finalize all of our work until February and have it available then for the 10-K and then further discussion at the March '09 analyst meeting.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Paul. May we have the next questioner, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Neil McMahon from Sanford Bernstein. Your question, please.

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I've got questions related to project timing. Just on some of your previous answers, George, there's -- you mentioned that Gorgon you're now planning three 5 million-ton trains and one presumes since it hasn't gone to FID yet, that there is scope to discuss materials, costs and contractor costs. Have you any rough idea if Gorgon, what timing you would expect Gorgon to come on and if the current credit market or falling prices for products and services may delay that a little bit.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, I think it may be in the earlier question, I was trying to foreshadow that I actually see a potential advantage for our big LNG projects that have not reached FID, the cost reduction of goods and services is really, I think, very, very good news for those kind of projects, so very positive from that point of view. Our long-term view of prices of oil and gas have not changed, which is how we always looked at our economics. So in some ways with cost of goods and services I think potentially coming down, it's a benefit to those large projects and, once again, it reinforces this financial crisis, reinforces the advantages of -- that companies like Chevron have with very, very strong balance sheets and are not, I think, held hostage to getting loans to do our projects. So from that perspective, I think it may actually be a benefit for us in some of our very, very large projects.

STEVE CROWE: I would just add we have the advantage of having a very strong balance sheet and we got to this point because we took a long-term view of the commodity price cycle, strengthened our balance sheet when commodity prices were rising so as to weather a downturn or advantage ourselves of opportunities. We also have the other aspect that George mentioned and that is we have a great project queue, so tremendous strength but also tremendous opportunities. Neil, do you have a follow-up?

NEIL MCMAHON: Yes, Steve, and I appreciate all of that and that's good to hear. It was really, again, around Gorgon, just a rough timing on when that project would be coming on. I'm presuming the second half of the next decade. And then as we are talking about projects, maybe George could give an update on Jack and St. Malo as well.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Let me deal with Gorgon saying our target is FID in the second half of 2009, so some time mid year or a little bit after we'd like to be to FID. I would then like to come out as we approach FID and then give a definitive date. I don't think it's quite as long as what you mentioned. I would pull it back a little bit from that. But, once again, it's -- I would much rather talk about that in detail once we get closer to the FID point. And then on Jack and Saint Malo, we still have appraisal wells to complete on both Jack and St. Malo, and until we get those appraisal wells drilled and evaluated, we really can't comment on further timing. I would anticipate that we would be able to make a pretty strong view or views on timing for Jack and St. Malo between the analysts call in late January to the time we get together in March, somewhere in that time frame we should have a pretty good idea of our path forward.

NEIL MCMAHON: Great. Thanks.

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Neil. May we have the next questioner, please.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank. Your question, please.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi guys, this is one on upstream and one on finance if I could. I'll slip in a few parts to it. Firstly, George, you mentioned 2,650 would be your production level for 2008 at $70 oil. Could you indicate what level you would expect for 2009 given the impressive list of projects you have listed. Secondly, the decline rates that you talked about at 4%, I think towards 4% is what you said. Would that be sensitive to the oil price being lower in terms of how hard you defend that number and, finally, on the upstream side if you could talk about exploration and any highlights that you've got coming up over the coming year. Thanks.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: It's a long list there. Let me --

PAUL SANKEY: That was one question, George.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Very well strung together. The 2009 production number, I would much prefer to talk about that at the January or have Steve or others talk about it at the January meeting. There's an awful -- and I hope everything recognizes that there's an awful lot of moving parts going on right now. Hurricane restoration has potential significant swings and, as I mentioned in my comments today, three-quarters of the remaining barrels that we have off there are not dependent on what we do. They are dependent on third-party pipelines, so we have that concern. We have all these projects coming on and including Tahiti and the timing of all these big projects when they come on, one quarter one month all of these make a significant difference. A lot of these points will be nailed down. By the end of the year we are going to know an awful lot about where we are on hurricanes, we are going to know ramp-up on Agbami to a much better extent. Blind Faith was going to be on by then so we will have some performance data on it, and we'll have a pretty good idea of exact timing on Tahiti, which is a bunch of big barrels for us, it's another project where we have high working interest. So from that perspective, and we typically give our guidance for 2009 or that year in the January meeting so we are going to hold with that and we'll give that guidance at the next quarter's call.

STEVE CROWE: I would just add on top of George's comments for all the reasons that he cited, as we have done this year, when we give the guidance for 2009 net OEG production, we will ping it off a specific crude price recognizing the workings of various contract agreements overseas can affect net production. I think you had another question on --

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, I was asking about the underlying, you mentioned that you had a four -- you implied that it was close to 4% decline rate based on, I guess, higher activity levels in defending the base. I just wondered if with the lower oil prices that's going to still be defendable. It's really a follow-up to the CapEx question in some way.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, we have tried to take the price effects out of our decline rate analysis and give you numbers that really don't reflect the price itself. We try to pull the price effects out of there to the best we can.

PAUL SANKEY: No. I was thinking more about activity levels, George. Are you going to do less because the oil price is lower?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, once again, you got to remember a lot of contracts for rigs you're already set for a year and six months so there's limited change that you're going to make in a short-term program, and I would tell you typically the very strongest return projects when you look at rate of returns on your investment, tend to be those projects that are off a current infrastructure and tie-ins, so those development wells and workovers tend to have the very, very best economics. I would tell you that we will make decisions during the year for certain contracts as they are coming up if it looks to be advantageous for us to decide to go out to the market and bid for a rig in lieu of doing a contract extension, we will do that to make sure we attract the best prices to do our work. So we will make some choices like that, very tactical choices during the year. I can't at this point in time speculate how all that will play out. It could have some minor effect on our base decline, but I think it's just way too early to speculate.

STEVE CROWE: George, the third part of Paul's question --

PAUL SANKEY: That was the third part of part 1.

STEVE CROWE: Third part of the first question was on exploration.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Our exploration focus is still very much in those focus areas I've talked about. We have been drilling wells in Australia and we've got -- we haven't many announcements but we have been doing quite a bit of work in Australia and I expect we will cover that later through some announcements. We have also been -- we are just starting several wells in the lower tertiary in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. It's too early to make anything of a report except the wells have been spudded, and we are continuing to drill some exploration wells in the focus area of west Africa, but I don't really have any specific updates beyond that. We will give a very broad update and I say detailed update once again at our analysts meeting in March.

PAUL SANKEY: But the development here, it feels like a quiet year for exploration?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Our exploration program, I will tell you we try to keep it very consistent. We try not to yo-yo it up and down. That's my expectation again for next year. We always like to drill anywhere from 15 to 20 high-impact wells around the world and then, of course, a large number of appraisal wells and delineation wells. So my expectation would be a program similar to what we have done the last few years. Once again, we don't like to yo-yo up and down. We've got rig contracts, we have planned for the long term and we try to maintain evenness in those programs.

STEVE CROWE: Paul, you had one more question?

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, very quickly one for you Steve. The pension, anything to say about pension funding and the outlook there? Thanks. I'll leave it there. Thank you.

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Paul. Well, certainly our -- the market value of our pension trust fund obviously has gone down with the market in the last several months. We don't have any required funding requirements under the PPA or ERISA. As you may recall particularly earlier in this decade we have an approach towards funding that we call opportunistic funding when we have sufficient cash or cash flows and can assure ourselves of tax deductibility in making a contribution.

I guess I would say at this juncture the disclosures that Chevron has made in its 10-K and 10-Q still pertain, including our ongoing economic review to fund more than we have there indicated in our SEC filings. So keeping in mind that the PBO obligation under PPA's discount rules result in higher discount rates, the magnitude of the funding is better than you might think just looking at the reduction in the asset values. So I guess I would take you back and -- to our disclosures that we have made in earlier 10-Qs and the one that you'll see in our 10-Q next week. May we have the next questioner, please?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Michael LaMotte of JPMorgan. Your question, please.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. Good morning, guys. I'd like to follow-up on this base decline number, George, if you could quickly. In slide 13, that 55,000 barrel a day number implies a 2.1% rate. At the analyst meeting in March, the same slide showing '07 versus '06 was about a 1% decline and I -- or 1.6%, I guess, and I know in your remarks you mentioned operating challenges in Azerbaijan as one of the reasons for the base decline. I guess the question I'm asking is is it all Azerbaijan, are there issues related to that that explain that whole delta and can 2% hold?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I keep going back and we track this base business very closely because we have had good success. It has been lower for now I think probably four or five quarters less than the 4% to 5%. I would tell everybody remember those barrels are in the bank. That's moved our production up and held our production, so that's a real positive. But I tried to also give a little color on this 55 that there were other things going on in there that benefited our base and reduced that decline. One of those was unitization agreement in Indonesia that we highlighted in an earlier call, I believe it was a first quarter call or maybe --

STEVE CROWE: It was first quarter.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: First quarter call and that had an impact and we've also had better marketing results, gas sales in the Asia Pacific region that in effect has raised the amount of base production we have had there. So it kind of -- it's not really a fair comparison on base decline without taking that into effect and when you add those pieces back, it gets back to the low end of this -- it gets back in the 4% range, approximately, so we feel good for planning purposes. We are going to continue to hold this 4% to 5% as kind of a planning -- our planning model, but then when we look at our actuals and the processes we have put in place, we are hopeful we are going to continue to see that we are able to do a little bit better than that. So we are going to look back at performance and we are going to plan forward at least for some period of time still in this 4% to 5% range.

STEVE CROWE: Mike, did you have a follow-up?

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: I do. Thank you for that color, George. If you wouldn't mind expanding a bit on the impairment to North Sea assets as well.

STEVE CROWE: We had -- Jim, do you want to field that one?

JIM ALEVERAS: Yes, we had impairment of a number of very small fields in the Dutch North Sea as well as the UK North Sea. These are mature fields and they are very small largely in terms of production so those are not tremendous material to us.

STEVE CROWE: They were all reaching the end of their productive life, so we took the asset values down.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Very good. Thank you.

STEVE CROWE: You bet. May we have our next questioner, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Erik Mielke from Merrill Lynch. Your question, please.

ERIK MIELKE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, gentlemen. I have two questions. The first one for George and the second one for Steve probably. Firstly, on the Partitioned Neutral Zone in Saudi, I understand that you're not willing to get into huge reserve discussion at this point, but can you clarify whether the extension of the contract would automatically lead to additional reserves being bookable for you?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Well, our normal reserve process only allows us to book reserves through the existing contract life. The contract life without the extension would have been ending in February of 2009 and now it will go to 2039, so with that extended period, there will be proved reserves that will be booked as a part of that extension.

ERIK MIELKE: That's very clear. Thanks.

STEVE CROWE: Do you have another?

ERIK MIELKE: Yes. My second question is more on cash management. If I hear you correctly, it sounds like CapEx is something that you intend to keep at current levels even if prices were to go, let's say, $10 lower than where they are today. For the rest of your cash management, how do you balance between hoarding cash, accelerating buybacks or scaling back buybacks and potentially increasing dividends and then also can you clarify where you currently keep your cash?

STEVE CROWE: Thanks. Thanks, Erik. I'll begin on a short-term issue. It's our intention here in the fourth quarter to maintain the share buyback pace at $2 billion in the fourth quarter just as we have done for the last five quarters. In terms of cash management and balancing, I think first and foremost, we want to make sure we fund the capital program that we feel is such a robust program with a very deep queue, so that's our first and foremost use of operating cash. Secondly, we are mindful of our 21-, 22-year record of increasing annual payouts in our dividend and would fully want to maintain that progress over time. Thirdly, as I had alluded to before, we do want to maintain a strong balance sheet through the commodity price cycle and we are in, I think, an enviable position right now as having one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry. As to share buybacks, we take all of the other considerations into account and make a determination as to whether or not there is enough of a cash fly wheel to fund further buybacks.

We take a look at economic conditions, market conditions going forward and would plan on giving guidance to the investment community just as we are doing now at the -- at the call each quarter for at least one quarter ahead. But as for right now, we are coming off two quarters of consecutive record earnings, a very, very strong balance sheet, strong cash flows, more cash than debt and we see another $2 billion here in the buybacks in the fourth quarter. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Peter McNally from Galleon. Your question, please.

PETER MCNALLY, ANALYST, GALLEON: My question has been answered. Thank you.

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Peter. Could we have the next questioner, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Mark Gilman from Benchmark. Your question, please.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK: Guys, good morning, good afternoon. George, wonder if you could tell me associated with the new concession at the Partitioned Neutral Zone, did you benefit or would you benefit from any change in fiscal terms should you decide to proceed with a full field steam flow there?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Mark, first off, it's not a new -- it's an extension of existing, so it's an extension of the existing contract there. And at this point in time I will not discuss the terms of a future full field steam development. I would rather hold that off until we get closer to that decision point.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Let me try my follow-up. I believe you received approval to proceed with a Makassar strait development project with respect to some of the resources that Unocal had identified years ago. I'm curious as to whether that gas is to go to Bontang or dedicate -- or to be dedicated to the domestic market and is there an agreement to allow for Pertamina to participate an an equity partner?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Mark, that agreement to develop and the plan of development there has not been fully approved so we have not had approvals yet on that. So at this point I really can't talk about it because we have not -- once again, we don't have all the approvals. It's been reported in the press a couple of times, but all the pieces have not been put together so it's not been reported correctly.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Since I got two strikes, let me try one more quick one.

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Sorry.

MARK GILMAN: George, with respect to the production sharing contract impacts that you had cited in several of your slides, can you segment that between those losses that would be considered permanent associated with threshold return and/or full capital cost recovery versus those reductions that are associated more with operating cost and continuing capital cost recovery?

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Mark, I can't do that at this time. That's a lot of detail. I will tell you we have some of it -- of it has been related to triggers. In other words, return triggers that will change the distribution and effect of profit oil so we have that. We have some that is royalty pieces which reach triggers with higher royalty rates, but I -- first off I don't think we ever would try to share that kind of detail. That's an awful lot of detail. We would rather try to give you each year kind of a guideline that kind of matches what we think is going to happen for the year at a price scenario or a price range. This last year we have been telling you it's been about $2 for every dollar a barrel...uhm...oh -- every dollar per barrel impact on price, it's about 2,000 barrels per day change and that's -- that's kind of been what it has. We will update that again for year 2009 which will be once again looking forward and we will look at price impacts and production impacts together.

STEVE CROWE: Mark, what we will try to do on the January call then is when we give our guidance for 2009 production at a specified price, based on that specified price we will try to give the investment community a rule of thumb to use to know how to adjust that if prices are above or below that amount.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, guys, thanks. I'm taking my bat and going back to the dugout.

STEVE CROWE: Okay, Mark. May we have the next questioner, please.

OPERATOR: Our final question today is from Neil McMahon of Stanford Bernstein,.

NEIL MCMAHON: Not really a follow-up. Something a bit different from you, Steve. What was the tax rate difference between the second quarter and the third quarter?

STEVE CROWE: Of this year?

NEIL MCMAHON: Of this year, yes.

STEVE CROWE: Yes. Well, in the third quarter our tax rate was just about 45% and in the second quarter it was about 49%, and the lower rate for the third quarter of this year was associated with a greater proportion of income being earned in tax jurisdictions with lower tax rates. We also had an impact in the second quarter of a reduction in the tax rate in Bangladesh. So on an ongoing basis, as we have guided in the past, allowing for the different taxing jurisdictions and being an integrated company, our guidance would be to use sort of an average rate of about 45% or in that neighborhood at least.

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay. That's great. Thank you.

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Neil. Matt, are there any other questioners in line?

OPERATOR: We have no further questions at this time.

STEVE CROWE: Okay. Well, thank you, Matt. In closing, let me say that we appreciate everybody's participation on today's call and I especially want to thank each of the analysts on behalf of all the participants for their questions during this morning's session. Matt, back to you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's third quarter 2008 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ghurr : Storms | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | gntdis : Natural Disasters/Catastrophes | grisk : Risk News | gwea : Weather | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020081107e4av001gx
  


 HD
 Q2  2008  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
7,450 words
   PD
1 August 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Matt, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter 2008 earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Steve Crowe. Please go ahead, sir.

STEVE CROWE, VP & CFO, CHEVRON: Thanks, Matt. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. Jim Aleveras, General Manager of Investor Relations, is on the call with me.

   TD
Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2008. We will refer to the slides that are available on the Web.

Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide two.

I will begin with slide three, which provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's second-quarter earnings were a record $6 billion or $2.90 per diluted share. Our second-quarter 2008 results were up 11% from the second-quarter 2007. Higher crude oil prices benefited our upstream performance, but had a negative impact on our downstream business. The second quarter of last year included a $500 million net gain on the sale of an investment and redemption of debt. Second-quarter 2008 earnings rose over 15% compared with the first quarter of 2008, which Jim will discuss shortly.

Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 23%. The debt ratio was below 8% at the end of June. Capital and exploratory spending was $5.2 billion for the quarter. In addition to the $2 billion of stock buybacks, we increased the second quarter dividend 12%.

Jim will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jim?

JIM ALEVERAS, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, CHEVRON: Thanks, Steve. My remarks compare results of the second-quarter 2008 with the first-quarter 2008. As a reminder, our earnings release compared second-quarter 2008 with the same quarter a year ago.

Turning to slide four, second-quarter net income was $800 million higher than the first quarter. Starting with the left side of the chart, higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited the Company's worldwide upstream results. At the same time, the significant increase in crude oil prices adversely affected the downstream segment. The variance in the residual other bar primarily reflects higher charges at the corporate level for environmental remediation and tax adjustments.

Slide five summarizes the results of our US upstream operations, which improved by about $590 million between quarters. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $775 million. Chevron's average US crude oil realization was up about $24.30 per barrel between consecutive quarters. This was less than the nearly $26 increase in WTI spot prices between quarters since much of our Gulf of Mexico crude oil production is priced on a lagged basis. Production volumes were down 2% between quarters, largely due to operational downtime and normal field declines. This reduced earnings by $30 million. Higher operating expenses reduced earnings by $70 million. Fuel, steam and utility costs increased as did maintenance expenses. The other bar is the net of everything else, including various gas marketing effects.

Turning to slide six, international upstream earnings for the second quarter were about $1.5 billion higher than the first quarter's results. Higher oil and gas prices increased earnings by nearly $1.3 billion. Our average unit realizations per liquids rose by $24.30 per barrel between sequential quarters, about the same as the average Brent spot price increase.

An increase in liftings contributed $130 million to the second quarter. Liftings were up primarily in Tengiz, the UK and China. Overall liftings were roughly on balance for the first half of the year after our under-lifted position in the first quarter.

Operating expense reduced earnings by $90 million, mainly in the UK, Kazakhstan and Indonesia. The other bar reflects the net of many unrelated items. The largest item was a favorable swing in foreign exchange effects. Among the offsetting items, exploration expense was higher in the second quarter.

Slide seven summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes produced from oil sands in Canada. Production fell by 62,000 barrels per day or 2% between quarters. US production declined 13,000 barrels per day due to operational downtime and normal field declines that I mentioned.

Outside the US, overall production dropped 49,000 barrels per day in the second quarter. However, we estimate that the impact of higher prices reduced production by about 75,000 barrels per day between sequential quarters. So absent price effects, volumes would have been up between quarters. I will elaborate on this in a moment.

Indonesia production was impacted by prices, but the largest effect was the absence of the one-time benefit of a favorable gas unitization agreement that we discussed on the conference call last quarter. While gross production at Tengiz continued to ramp up with our expansion project, both Tengiz and Karachaganak net volumes were affected by higher prices.

Turning to our production outlook for 2008, total OEG production for the first six months of 2008 was 2.57 million barrels per day. During this period WTI prices averaged just over $110 per barrel. Our production target for 2008, which assumed $70 per barrel of WTI, was 2.65 million barrels per day. Absent the price effects under production sharing and variable royalty agreements, our production for the first half would have been on track with our full-year production target of 2.65 million barrels per day. This production level reflected strong base business performance without significant contributions from several 2008 major project start-ups. Our project startups will increase production during the second half of the year, and adjusting for price effects, we expect to meet or exceed our volume target for the year.

Steve will provide a brief update on our major projects at the end of our presentation.

We reviewed our rule of thumb as prices have moved far above $70 per barrel, and we believe the rule of thumb is still applicable at the current price level. That is to say a $1 per barrel increase in prices leads to about a 2,000 barrel per day reduction in our net production volumes for the year. However, I would like to re-emphasize the caveats we have given you about this rule of thumb. The calculation of price impacts includes many variables, including the interaction of prices and costs, very specific contract thresholds and terms, and so forth. The rule of thumb is our best estimate of the impact for 2008, but results will vary when making comparisons between periods.

For example, because certain thresholds were met in the second quarter, the rule of thumb does not work when comparing the first and second quarters of 2008. Each dollar change in price had an impact of over 3,000 barrels per day in this particular comparison. We will continue to update you as we move through this very volatile price environment.

Turning to slide eight, our US downstream operations moved from breakeven to a loss of about $680 million in the second quarter. Industry refining margins improved in the second quarter, although marketing indicator margins weakened, particularly on the West Coast. On balance indicator margins suggest a $305 million benefit. WTI prices rose more than $38 per barrel from the end of the first quarter to the end of the second quarter. This compares to an increase of less than $6 per barrel during the first quarter. This truly extraordinary crude price spike in the second quarter reduced US downstream earnings by $490 million between quarters. The $490 million is shown on the bar labeled Timing Effects.

Of the $490 million, about $280 million reflected the impact of provisionally-priced foreign crude. This crude is priced on a delivery basis, although we take title to it when it is lifted. We typically have about 13 to 15 million barrels of provisionally-priced crude in transit to the US West Coast. These barrels are effectively marked-to-market at the end of each period.

The second timing effect accounted for $110 million of the $490 million change between quarters. We used derivatives to convert crudes, including crudes that are not provisionally-priced from the acquisition price to the price at the time they are run. As prices went up dramatically during the second quarter, this resulted in derivative losses.

The balance of timing effects between quarters reflected a number of supply-related activities, including mark-to-market losses on derivatives related to a long-term contract.

Moving to the next bar, we had an unfavorable variance of $300 million between quarters due to refinery shutdown effects. Almost all of these were planned shutdowns, and we previously cautioned that 2008 would be a heavy planned shutdown period for us. The adverse $300 million variance reflects both the direct operating expense and the lost margin capture as we purchased more expensive feedstocks and intermediates during the refinery shutdowns. Most of the difference between quarters was due to our Pascagoula refinery where both the No. 1 crude unit and coker were down during the second quarter.

Planned shutdowns at El Segundo and Hawaii were much smaller factors. Our 2008 maintenance schedule indicates that essentially all of our major US planned shutdowns were completed in the first half of 2008. Excluding the operating expense related to refinery shutdowns, other OpEx was $145 million higher in the second quarter. Many factors were involved here, including higher fuel costs.

The other bar on the chart is an unfavorable variance of $56 million, which primarily reflects minor pipeline impairments.

Turning to slide nine, international downstream earnings fell $300 million from the first quarter's results. Refining indicator margins improved while marketing margins were mixed across our international geographic areas. On balance Company margins were a $185 million benefit between quarters. Volumetric effects were a $25 million adverse variance. This primarily reflected the unplanned shutdowns at the Pembroke refinery in Wales. We estimate the overall impact of all international refinery downtime between quarters to be an unfavorable variance of $32 million, which reflects OpEx as well as volume and feedstock impacts.

As we saw in the United States, international downstream timing effects were a major factor in the adverse change between quarters as the price of crude and petroleum products increased very significantly over the course of the second quarter.

Two-thirds of the $225 million shown as timing effects was related to long-haul sales of equity crude and refined products. For select cargoes we often use derivatives to lock in a margin above the cost of transportation. During periods of rapidly increasing prices, this can lead to derivative losses. The majority of this timing effect is related to delivered sales of Partitioned Neutral Zone equity crude and exports of refined products from our Pembroke refinery to third parties.

The balance of the timing effect is primarily due to losses on derivatives used to convert crude pricing to the time of refinery run. There was also a factor involved here regarding the changes in inventory.

The next bar shows operating expense was a $140 million unfavorable variance between quarters. A number of different items affected the various geographic regions, there was not a pattern to the components of the $140 million change.

The other bar shows a $95 million reduction between quarters, and this primarily reflects lower foreign exchange gains, as well as an adverse swing in tax items.

Slide 10 shows that earnings from chemical operations were $41 million in the second quarter compared with $43 million in the first quarter. Results for olefins fell on lower margins and volumes, as well as higher operating expense. Aromatics results were also affected by lower volumes and higher operating expenses. Additionally shutdown activity reduced aromatics' results.

The other bar on this chart shows a favorable $26 million variance between quarters. This reflects the absence of a $40 million environmental provision we mentioned on last quarter's conference call, partly offset by lower additive margins.

Turning to slide 11, which covers all other, second-quarter results were net charges of $580 million compared to net charges of $255 million in the first quarter. The $210 million variance reflects environmental provisions related to legacy Texaco and Unocal downstream assets. Since these assets were sold prior to Chevron acquiring their parent companies, the impact is included here rather than in the downstream segment.

Tax items were an $80 million unfavorable variance. The other bar reflects the net of many unrelated items.

Before I turn things back over to Steve, I'd just like to briefly recap the second quarter's results.

First, upstream results were very strong, in line with the indicators in our July 10 interim update. Second, we experienced a sharp decline in downstream performance due to timing effects and refinery downtime as we discussed in the interim update.

Finally, as we projected, chemical results were flat between sequential quarters, and our all other charges were significantly higher than the standard guidance range due to environmental remediation charges.

That completes my variance analysis for the quarter. Back over to you, Steve.

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Jim. Before opening the call to questions, I would like to highlight the significant progress we have made on some of our major capital projects. Please turn to slide 12.

First up is our Agbami project, offshore Nigeria. Yesterday we announced that Agbami had begun production. Chevron is the operator with a 68% interest in this world-class deepwater project. Agbami's initial gross OEG production is expected to quickly ramp up to more than 100,000 barrels per day. We anticipate this reaching 250,000 barrels per day by the end of 2009.

In the UK our partner recently announced first production for the Callanish-Brodgar fields also known as the Britannia satellite development.

At the Tengiz field in Kazakhstan, our phased expansion remains on schedule for full facilities start-up this quarter. The first phase, which began late last year, added nearly 90,000 barrels per day of total production during the second quarter. The second phase of production is now complete, and we're doing the major turnaround, final tie-ins and commissioning.

As a result, there will be a brief drop in production of about 25,000 barrels a day in the third quarter with full facility startup. We anticipate the project will add 240,000 barrels a day of production, increasing Tengiz's total capacity from 300,000 to 540,000 barrels per day.

In the Gulf of Mexico, we completed our plan to retrofit and tension all eight mooring lines on our Blind Faith facility. We're continuing with commissioning work, having installed all four of the risers. We expect startup later this year. It is difficult to be more specific about the timing as weather could impact our commissioning efforts.

In Australia the Northwest Shelf fifth LNG train, is in the midst of commissioning with an anticipated first cargo in the fourth quarter.

In Brazil our Frade project is on track for a 2009 start-up.

At our Tahiti facility in the Gulf of Mexico, the production spar hull has been moored, the installation of subsea flowlines and risers is nearly complete, and the first of three major topside modules was installed last week. We expect to install the other two topside modules this quarter. The Tahiti project remains on schedule for first production in the third quarter 2009.

In Angola our Tombua Landana project is also on schedule for first production next year.

In summary, our major projects are on track to deliver significant new volumes.

Well, that concludes our prepared remarks. We will now take your questions. One question and one follow-up per caller, please. Matt, would you open up the lines for questions?

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Our first question from Arjun Murti, Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you for the project update. I was wondering if you could provide a similar update on some of your exploration plans. I guess in particular the status of some of the key lower tertiary projects, Jack in particular, St. Malo. If you could provide an update on your exploration in general, but most notably the lower tertiary that would be helpful. Thank you.

STEVE CROWE: Well, we're looking at Jack and St. Malo presently. We have another well that will be completed later in the year. We're giving consideration as to whether or not we can tie back those two projects, Jack and St. Malo, one of which came from Unocal and one of which is a legacy Chevron one and consider developing the two of them in tandem.

We will have more to say about the progress of the lower tertiary as we get a little deeper in the year and can probably give you a more definitive update on our next conference call.

Arjun, did you have any follow-up questions?

ARJUN MURTI: Are those expected to be sanctioned this year? Does the fact that you are considering a joint development speak to any disappointment or update in terms of the resource potential at either or both together?

STEVE CROWE: I think the consideration of joining those two projects together really speaks to the opportunity to reduce costs in the current environment and produce them in tandem as a more efficient way of developing the resource.

ARJUN MURTI: It is an efficiency consideration?

STEVE CROWE: Primarily.

ARJUN MURTI: And I'm sorry do you think -- will we expect a sanctioning decision this year, or is that an '09 or later kind of thing?

STEVE CROWE: That will be outside of 2008.

OPERATOR: Neil McMahon, Sanford Bernstein.

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Just really on some of the numbers in today's call that Jim ran through on the variance analysis, looking at the OpEx reduction both in the US but more importantly in international, which is a bit strange given higher royalties in an inflation environment.

I was wondering to what extent -- well, first of all, really why that OpEx reduction took place from the first quarter to second quarter and in particular, related to what is going on in Kazakhstan with some of your partners in the Karachaganak field seeing increased charges associated with changes in the fiscal terms in that country.

STEVE CROWE: Let me give a first correction I think, Neil. As Jim was going through the variance analyses, say, on the US upstream, we indicated on slide five that operating expense was higher in the second quarter in comparison to the first quarter by about $70 million after-tax, mainly reflecting, as you would expect, higher fuel costs and utility costs along with higher maintenance. So actually the costs were higher in the second than in the first quarter.

JIM ALEVERAS: With regard to the international upstream, you will see OpEx down a little bit, but the biggest factor there was simply a number of different things in our various UK, Kazakhstan and Indonesia operations.

NEIL MCMAHON: I am just sort of struggling why it is dropped given the fact that the BG on their conference call were talking about the fact that under duress, or maybe that was not the word they used, they were paying new taxes associated with the fiscal change in Kazakhstan. That is all. It seems strange that you have gone down, whereas they went up.

JIM ALEVERAS: Well, perhaps it is a semantic issue here. When we're showing OpEx as a negative, what we're saying is it's a negative to P&L. We start with our income from the first quarter, and we end with our income in the second quarter. So when OpEx is a negative, what it means is it is a detraction from our earnings in the second quarter.

NEIL MCMAHON: Right. I understand that. But you did say that it went down. That is all.

JIM ALEVERAS: No, we said OpEx was a negative. If you look at the international upstream chart, it is a negative $90 million to earnings. So that is OpEx actually going up; it is reducing earnings by $90 million.

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay. I thought you said a few minutes ago that if things got better in Kazakhstan, but that is fine.

Maybe as a follow-up then just on the environmental charge under corporate, maybe you could just walk through that since you did say you had disposed of those assets, or maybe my hearing is totally gone.

STEVE CROWE: Well, as we had foreshadowed in the interim update on July 10, certain of the environmental provisions or obligations that we have that are connected with legacy operations of Texaco or Unocal we still are obliged per certain of the contractual arrangements to affect the environmental cleanup or remediation.

It so happened that here in the second quarter for primarily the Unocal but also Texaco operations that are no longer operated, they have been disposed of, certain events have occurred where we thought it was appropriate for the accounting rules to recognize the increased liability. So that was the fundamental driver for that increase of $210 million between the first and second quarters of this year.

NEIL MCMAHON: Steve, can you tell us what they are or what the chances are that this sort of thing is going to happen again on some of those assets?

STEVE CROWE: Well, they were a variety of things, some of which were marketing-related, operations that Unocal had that have since been sold twice. Some of them are connected with refinery and terminal locations, both legacy -- primarily legacy Texaco. And those things occur driven by events.

But you will have noticed I think over the last year or so that our recognition of environmental expenses, whether it be for currently owned and operated operations or those previously disposed of, are a bit more -- occur more regularly during the course of the year.

But it is very hard to give you a prediction as to what the ratable pace would be because it is driven by events, and they tend to come based on the situation.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I got a little bit confused regarding your overall statements about volume for the year. You said you were at 2.537, 2.5 million and that you would otherwise have been at your target but for the PSC and other effects of 2.650. You then subsequently said that you expect still to meet the target by the end of the year, was it, or could you just clarify -- I did not quite understand what you were saying. Do you mean that you are going to still be at 2.537 by the end of the year, or you're going to hit 2.650?

STEVE CROWE: I will let Jim cover that.

JIM ALEVERAS: Paul, what we are saying is that we expect to meet or exceed the 2.65 that we talked about at $70 a barrel of oil at our March meeting, but that is adjusted for prices. Right now we are in a very volatile pricing environment so if prices stay above $70, we will come in below that, but we will give you a reconciliation back to that that will explain the PSC effects that caused it.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, the point I was making was that you said that the current level effectively, but for those effects, the 2.5 level but for those effects amounted to the 2.6 if you like, which would then to me suggest that there's no growth in the second half?

JIM ALEVERAS: No, we expect to meet or exceed -- and I will put exceed in italics if that helps, Paul.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. I have got you I think.

STEVE CROWE: So what we're saying again for those on the phone is, we're reaffirming our production guidance earlier in the year that we will have net production of 2.65 at a $70 per barrel average price for the year. And Jim also mentioned that it still looks appropriate as you make those adjustments because of higher crude prices, a 2:1 ratio such that for every dollar increase above the $70, you can anticipate roughly a 2,000 barrel a day reduction in net production.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. If I could take my follow-up, you were very clear on Agbami. On Tengiz you mentioned that you will be down in Q3. Can you just give us the overall levels? You mentioned you would be down I think 25,000 a day. Could you just give us the overall levels, even at the Kazakhstan level that would be fine? And then if you could also just clarify the exit rate for '08? Because you said there the capacity I think is 240,000 a day. But if you could just clarify where you think you will be by the end of the year, that is great.

JIM ALEVERAS: Well, let's take the first one first. Paul, we mentioned the 25,000 barrel a day reduction in the current quarter simply to alert people that as we tie in the facilities and we bring the second generation plant on stream, we will have to reduce production a little bit as we are tying everything back together.

PAUL SANKEY: And that will be down to what level?

JIM ALEVERAS: Right now we're running close to 400,000 barrels a day on a gross 100% basis.

PAUL SANKEY: And that is pre the 25,000, right?

JIM ALEVERAS: That is correct.

STEVE CROWE: That is correct.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. Yes, go on.

JIM ALEVERAS: But there will be a slight reduction in overall production just as we tie everything together and get the plant up and running.

PAUL SANKEY: And the exit rate?

STEVE CROWE: In terms of the exit rate from 2008 going into 2009, it is a little too early to tell yet. We certainly have achieved as we promised the 90,000 barrel a day improvement from the first phase of the project, the sour gas injection.

STEVE CROWE: But it will be ramping up to the expected 540,000 barrels a day on a total project. I just don't want to quote an exact number as we exit 2008 and go into 2009.

JIM ALEVERAS: We're certainly going to expect a pretty prompt increase once we get out of the third quarter into the fourth quarter.

STEVE CROWE: That is correct.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Steve and Jim, with Agbami coming on stream and also a number of projects, can you maybe share with us the kind of return and profitability on those new projects comparing to your existing one? It looked like Agbami should be extremely profitable, so I was wondering if you can shed some light.

STEVE CROWE: Well, we typically would not talk about the economics of a specific project, which obviously get into a lot of the fiscal terms that we have in each of those operations. But Agbami will be a very profitable project for us. It will be returning cash to us on a prompt basis.

As you know, it is a light oil condensate project and ought to have a very handsome rate of return. Our expectations sort of harkening back to an earlier question on ramp-up is that we probably will see as the wells come on production reaching 100,000 barrels a day in the early part of next year. And then as we mentioned before, moving up to the 250,000 barrels a day by the end of 2009.

But I think a takeaway from that last chart that I showed in the prepared remarks is we have got a long and healthy list of projects, some of which have come on, some of which are right in the midst of being commissioned, and some are coming on and right on schedule for 2009. So I think our production, which, of course, net production will be influenced by prices and the way variable royalty mechanisms work and production sharing agreements. But these large projects are all lined up, and as you can see, it is quite a long list and probably will differentiate Chevron versus a lot of our competitors. I think it is a major difference. We have been talking about it for a couple of years now, but they are ready.

PAUL CHENG: Steve, what is your current production in Agbami at this point?

STEVE CROWE: Well, Agbami started up literally Tuesday of this week as I recall. And so, as the wells come on, it will be ramping up. The last I saw, and it changes all the time, Paul, but the last I saw was a day or so ago, and it was about 20,000 barrels a day. But it ramps up over time. So don't put any specific number. It is a function of when the wells come on. But, as I mentioned, as they do come on, we anticipate about 100,000 barrels a day in early 2009.

PAUL CHENG: Can I ask you maybe a conceptual question about the timing effect losses in your downstream operation?

STEVE CROWE: Sure.

PAUL CHENG: I understand the price finalization impact related to long-haul crude suppliers in Saudi Arabia and all that -- so that is really no big deal on that. I'm not quite sure I understand why we even use a derivative for, let's say, if you own equity crude oil, you sell it, I think what based on what you guys described it that you use derivatives to hedge whatever is the price that during that journey, that shipping time whether it is 20 days or 40 days, given that no one really can foresee what is the price direction for the next 20, 40 days, so you are arguably you have 50% of the time -- you make money 50% of the time, you lose money in that derivative trade and given Chevron has no concern about liquidity or anything, why would you even bother to do that?

JIM ALEVERAS: Well, Paul, what we -- the reason we did that was to match the cost of crude that we purchased to the time that it is run in the refinery to get the margins for the day.

PAUL CHENG: Why would you even bother? Jim, that is my question. I mean over time it makes no difference.

JIM ALEVERAS: Well, Paul, what we're trying to do there is just lock in a refining margin, which historically refining margins have fluctuated and we want to get refining margin of the day. As we have done this especially in the second quarter during a period of very, very rapid price changes, we have seen that that has added volatility to our earnings. That volatility is something that we don't find acceptable, and we have curtailed that program to a considerable extent in the second quarter. So going forward you can expect to see much smaller effects from this.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Thank you.

STEVE CROWE: Let me just reiterate a couple of points in as much as the timing effects were significant and looking at our results. In light of our second-quarter results, we're looking at everything that impacts our downstream performance. But let me make it clear -- our strategy for the downstream business hasn't changed. We're continuing to work on rationalizing our portfolio, to eliminate less profitable assets and to reduce the capital employed in our marketing network, while maintaining our brand uplift. We're absolutely focused on refinery reliability and selective investments to improve refinery performance.

But we're also looking at the tactical issues as Jim mentioned like the use of derivatives and other factors that sometimes add perhaps unnecessary volatility to our reported results.

Thanks for your call and questions, Paul.

OPERATOR: Kate Lucas, JPMorgan.

KATE LUCAS, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Can you just comment a little bit on the progress of the steamflood technology that you're using or implementing in the Neutral Zone, specifically any challenges with the steamflood or the carbonate reservoir?

And then can you comment on whether you are able to source the natural gas and water without any issues?

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Kate. As you know, we are in a pilot project in the PNZ to see if the technology would be applicable to a carbonate formation. As far as I'm aware, good progress is being made. And, as you are also aware, we're doing that early pilot in the Partitioned Neutral Zone, which has its concession ending in the early part of 2009. This is a 60-year concession, and we are very optimistic that the concession will be extended. But it is too early at this point on the call to confirm it definitively. But all indications are from the pilot steam project that things are progressing as we had anticipated.

Thank you very much. Follow-up question, please? I'm sorry, Kate. We may have lost you there. May we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Eric Mielke, Merrill Lynch.

ERIK MIELKE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: You went through most of my questions. Just a couple of quick follow-ups. In the discussion earlier with Neil on international operating cost during the second quarter, I recognized that there was an increase during the quarter. But the rate of increase was perhaps less than we would have expected. Is that because of a volume mix effect, or was it part of underlying cost improvements that you previously discussed?

JIM ALEVERAS: It is a combination of a number of things. If we look at our operating expense, what we're seeing is higher costs in a lot of areas, but we did have some workover costs in West Africa that affected the prior period that are not in the current period.

STEVE CROWE: I hope that helps.

ERIK MIELKE: It does indeed. And then finally, just looking at politics and the fact that by the time we have the next call we will be right in the middle of the elections, we had an announcement today from one of the two candidates that they are considering windfall taxes to finance a so-called energy rebate. What are you hearing from your contacts in Washington when it comes to the outlook for taxation on US oil companies and if you have any comments on what the impact will be for the different proposals on CO2 cap-and-trade for your business?

STEVE CROWE: Well, it is again very early with respect to the measurement of the impact of the various CO2 proposals that have been floated around for the last year or so.

As far as windfall profit tax is concerned, we have over the last year seen a number of proposals tabled. Some were windfall profit tax; some were related to use of foreign tax credits; some were connected with the sustained usability of LIFO. At this juncture up to this point, those have all not passed muster. But it is again it depends on the nature and terms of any legislation that might be forthcoming in a new administration down the road. So it really much depends on the form of any additional taxation. It is hard to speculate until you know all the details.

Do you have any other questions?

ERIK MIELKE: That is it for me. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: I just wanted to ask a question about the timing of the Pascagoula coker turnaround. From a historic margin capture standpoint, the second quarter would seem to be counter-intuitive for planning too much turnaround on the coker. Can you shed any light into that decision-making process?

JIM ALEVERAS: Let me take a swipe at that. The whole issue of bringing a coker down is a very, very complex issue. We're very conscious that timing is important in terms of scheduling a turnaround because of the impact on margins. If we look at the light/heavy differential as a key proxy for coker profitability, we don't find that it follows a consistent pattern between the first and second quarter.

So in the 2003/2005 period, light/heavy differentials were actually higher in the first quarter than in the second quarter. You just can't change a major refinery turnaround once you see actual margins coming through the market on a weekly or a monthly basis.

In Pascagoula, for example, the crude unit and coker shutdowns during the second quarter were very major undertakings involving thousands of temporary workers, and the Pascagoula coker had run five years since its last scheduled turnaround. We simply were not in the position to second guess the market, as the market evolved in 2008 to get the timing exactly where you would have liked to have gotten it in hindsight to capture the best margins.

STEVE CROWE: I think I would add as well two other points. One, there was a lot of activity with respect to bringing back the other crude unit in the first quarter. So there really was not an opportunity to accelerate it by a quarter or two if you had perceived a different light/heavy differential in the short-term.

But the other point that I would make, as Jim had alluded to, almost all of our scheduled maintenance here in the US for 2008 is behind us. So we would expect to have increased refinery availability during the second half of the year.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay. That is very helpful, guys. Maybe as a follow-up I could ask about the decline in branded gasoline sales. It looks to be down about 5% year-over-year. Is that purely a demand function, or are there some divestitures that played a role in that as well?

JIM ALEVERAS: It is largely a demand function, Jason. What we're seeing is a higher amount of demand decrease in the US West Coast than we are seeing in other parts of the country. And, of course, Chevron is disproportionately exposed to the US West Coast. We have seen this in prior periods as well when California was disproportionately hit in the early 1990s as the defense contractors exited the state and in the late 1990s as the dot-com bubble burst.

In each case we have seen California rebound. Right now California is being disproportionately hit by the housing and credit crisis, and this has created what we feel is a negative consumer sentiment that is causing people to do less discretionary driving.

Long-term we're very bullish about California. We have seen California knocked down twice in the last decade. The exit of the defense contractors was a huge impact in California. The dot-com bubble was a huge impact in California, and California unemployment rates have run 1.5 times the national average.

So there's a lot of consumer sentiment going on here, and we're just in the midst of this for a short period of time. We don't know what the future holds, but in the past California has wobbled around more than the country has, but it has always come back. So we're optimistic about the future, but for the moment we're being disproportionately affected by our exposure to the US West Coast.

STEVE CROWE: So, Jason, just to close that off, we really don't have any divestments that are impacting the lower branded mogas sales. It is all a function of industry market demand.

JASON GAMMEL: Very helpful. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Waseem Khalil, HSBC.

WASEEM KHALIL, ANALYST, HSBC: I was just wondering if you could perhaps give us a little bit more information on the Partitioned Neutral Zone. I believe the lady earlier from JPMorgan was cut off, and I was just wondering if you could just perhaps give us some more information on any updates that are going on regarding that?

STEVE CROWE: Well, I really don't have a lot of additional information to offer up. I had commented on the status and successful progress of our steamflood in the carbonate rock and also had mentioned that we have been having ongoing discussions with the Kingdom for an extension of the concession agreement which is progressing and against which we're very optimistic that we will have a successful resolution. Beyond that, I really don't have any additional information to provide to you on the call here today.

WASEEM KHALIL: Right, okay. I guess then if there's no additional information, there's no additional question. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Quadrum.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, QUADRUM: This is becoming a bit of a theme here. On this Partitioned Neutral Zone, I'm just curious in the event that the concession is extended, can you give any kind of rough approximation as to what the period that you would expect it to be? Because I'm expecting you would be able to book the reserves here, right, if it gets extended?

STEVE CROWE: If the concession is extended, we would be able to book reserves. As you know, under current accounting rules, we are only able to book reserves to the extent that production would occur under the existing contract.

As far as any of the commercial terms that are in the midst of being finalized and negotiated, I'm clearly not at liberty to discuss those now. But your fundamental premise about being able to book reserves is correct, Doug.

DOUG LEGGATE: Sorry, I guess I have a related follow-up. Would this be as long as the original concession, or would it be much shorter? Just ballpark would be really useful.

STEVE CROWE: Well, the existing concession was for 60 years, and I really am not at liberty to talk about the terms of the successor if it is concluded. We will give the investment community full detail or as much detail as we can at the point of our announcement.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS).

STEVE CROWE: It looks like we have gone through the lists of analysts who had questions for us. I think in closing, let me say how much I appreciate all of the analysts' participation, particularly asking questions on behalf of all of those listening, and thank you very much.

Matt, back to you?

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's second-quarter 2008 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080808e481001pk
  


 HD
 Q1  2008  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,065 words
   PD
2 May 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Matt, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter 2008 earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Steve Crowe. Please go ahead, sir.

STEVE CROWE, VP & CFO, CHEVRON: Thanks, Matt. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter earnings conference call and webcast. Jim Aleveras, General Manager of Investor Relations, is on the call with me today. Our focus is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2008. We will refer to the slides that are available on the Web.

   TD
Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide two.

I will begin with slide three, which provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's first-quarter earnings were $5.2 billion or $2.48 per diluted share. Our first-quarter 2008 earnings were up nearly 10% from the first-quarter 2007, reflecting higher crude oil and natural gas prices, which more than offset weaker downstream results. The first quarter of last year included a $700 million gain on the sale of our interest in a refinery in the Netherlands.

First-quarter 2008 earnings rose 6% compared to the fourth-quarter 2007, which Jim will discuss shortly. Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 23%. The debt ratio was about 8% at the end of the quarter. As we announced Wednesday, we increased our quarterly dividend by $0.07 per share or 12.1%. This marks the fourth consecutive year we have raised the second-quarter dividend by a double-digit amount. Stock buybacks were $2 billion in the quarter.

Jim will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jim?

JIM ALEVERAS, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, CHEVRON: Thanks, Steve. My remarks compare results of the first-quarter 2008 with the fourth-quarter 2007. As a reminder, our earnings release compares the first-quarter 2008 with the same quarter a year ago.

Turning to slide four, first-quarter net income was almost $300 million higher than the fourth quarter. Starting with the left side of the chart, higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited the Company's worldwide upstream results. Partly offsetting this was the impact of lower upstream volumes. The largest component here was international liftings. Liftings were lower than production in the first quarter.

Downstream results were up slightly from the fourth quarter, reflecting improved refinery operations in the United States. The variance in the residual other bar is the net of everything else.

Slide five summarizes the results of our US upstream operations, which improved by about $220 million between quarters. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $335 million. Chevron's average US crude oil realization was up about $8.00 per barrel between consecutive quarters. This is more than the $7.25 per barrel increase in WTI spot prices since much of our Gulf of Mexico crude oil production is priced on a lag basis.

Production volumes were down 2% between quarters, largely due to operational and weather-related downtime, as well as normal field declines. This impact reduced earnings by $85 million. The $85 million DD&A impact reflects higher rates and higher accretion charges for abandonment. Exploration expense fell $90 million between periods. The primary factor was lower well write-offs in the first quarter. The other bar reflects miscellaneous, gas marketing and income tax items.

Let's turn to slide six. International upstream earnings for the first quarter were about $70 million higher than the fourth quarter's results. Higher oil and gas prices increased earnings by $370 million. Our unit realizations for liquids rose by $5.70 per barrel, significantly less than the $9.30 increase in Brent spot prices.

Comparing average prices for the first and fourth quarters, we found that worldwide benchmark crudes did not move consistently. For example, Malaysia's light sweet Tapis crude was up $3.20 per barrel between quarters and Sumatra light rose $7.70 per barrel. WTI spot prices increased $7.25 per barrel, $2.00 less than the change in Brent.

Our realizations, therefore, reflected geographic market prices, which were not in line with Brent movements during this particular comparison period. Lower first-quarter liftings, particularly in Azerbaijan, the UK, Nigeria and Australia, reduced earnings by $195 million. As I noted earlier, we were underlifted in the fourth quarter, an issue we referenced in the interim update.

Partially offsetting this underlift is a onetime benefit from the retroactive effect of the unitization agreement in Indonesia. We also mentioned in the interim update.

Tax items reduced earnings by $230 million between quarters. These were spread among several countries and included the absence of favorable fourth-quarter items we discussed on our last conference call. Operating expense was down $130 million from the fourth quarter due to lower seasonal activity levels in several international areas.

The other bar reflects the net of many unrelated items. The largest components were adverse foreign exchange effects, offset by lower exploration expense.

Slide seven summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes produced from oilsands in Canada. Production fell by 14,000 barrels per day or about .5% between consecutive quarters.

United States production fell 15,000 barrels per day, about 2% due to operational downtime and normal field declines. Outside the United States, overall production was flat between quarters.

Kazakhstan benefited from the ramp-up of staged oil from the TCO expansion project. Offsetting this were reduced entitlements in Azerbaijan. Comparing the fourth and first quarters, the increase in international liquids realizations reduced our volumes by about 25,000 barrels per day due to cost recovery and variable royalty provisions of certain production contracts.

As we noted at our March analyst meeting in New York City, each contract is different, and there are nonlinear points when certain thresholds are reached.

Looking at our 2008 production guidance, our general rule of thumb is unchanged. A $1.00 per barrel increase in crude oil prices will reduce our production entitlement by roughly 2000 barrels per day. We caution that this is only an estimate, and results will vary especially for individual quarterly comparisons.

In the context of our production, I would like to briefly summarize our upstream project status. As we discussed at our March meeting, the Tengiz expansion is on track with the first phase of staged oil meeting all of its targets and full facility startup on schedule for the third quarter of this year.

First, oil at Blind Faith, our Gulf of Mexico project, forecasted for the late second quarter is now projected to occur in the second half of 2008 due to an issue with the mooring lines. The exact timing of startup is dependent on weather in the Gulf.

As we mentioned at the March meeting, a fourth well was added to the initial development plan for Blind Faith. The acceleration of the fourth well reflects higher than anticipated reservoir quality. This well has now been drilled, completed and is ready for production at the time of facility startup later this year.

As indicated in March, gross peak production for Blind Faith is now expected to be 70000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. Also in March, we said we expected first oil from Moho-Bilondo offshore the Republic of Congo in the second half of this year. This project has now started up ahead of schedule.

In Nigeria we expect our Agbami project to remain on track for a third-quarter startup. Overall our upstream projects are moving forward. While we will provide an update later in the year, we are optimistic that when adjusted for price effects, our 2008 production will be on track with the guidance we provided in March that was based on $70 oil prices.

Let's turn to slide eight, our US downstream operations moved from a loss position in the fourth quarter to breakeven results in the first quarter. Industry refining and marketing indicator margins on the West Coast weakened in the first quarter. Although refining margins improved somewhat on the Gulf Coast, marketing margins declined. On balance, especially given Chevron's West Coast weighting, industry margins were an adverse $55 million impact between quarters.

With the completion of our El Segundo refinery upgrade project at the end of 2007, the coker was back in operation, and we were able to run heavier crudes. That helped to improve first-quarter results by roughly $100 million. The swing in timing effects such as the impact of provisionally priced foreign crudes was $50 million better in the first quarter since crude prices did not rise as much from the beginning to the end of the first quarter as they did in the fourth quarter.

Sales of motor gasoline and jet fuel were down by 2% and 3% respectively. While diesel fuel sales strengthened between quarters, lower first-quarter volumes resulted in an adverse impact of $50 million.

Turning to slide nine, international downstream earnings fell about $10 million in the fourth quarter's results. Refining indicator margins were lower, while marketing margins were mixed across our international geographic areas.

On balance, margins reduced earnings by about $30 million between quarters. Volumetric effects were a $70 million adverse variance. This reflected planned shutdowns at refineries in Canada, South Africa, Singapore and South Korea. Additionally marketing volumes were affected by seasonal factors in Asia and Africa.

Higher charter rates resulted in a $70 million increase in international shipping earnings. The $19 million benefit in the other bar is the net of many items, including adverse tax effects and favorable OpEx variance.

Slide 10 shows that earnings from chemical operations were $43 million in the first quarter compared with $69 million in the fourth quarter. Results for Olefins improved on higher margins and volumes, especially for polyethylene. Aromatics were essentially unchanged as volumes and margins were mixed.

Included in the other bar here is an approximately $40 million environmental provision we mentioned in the interim update, as well as the absence of favorable tax items we discussed on last quarter's conference call.

Slide 11 covers all other. First-quarter results were net charges of $255 million compared to net charges of $237 million in the fourth quarter. Corporate tax adjustments had a $100 million adverse impact between quarters. Corporate charges shown were a favorable variance of $85 million. This largely reflects lower advertising and employee-related expense.

As we mentioned in the interim update, our current guidance for all other activities is a charge of $250 million to $300 million. Because of irregularly occurring accruals and other charges that affect corporate and other activities, we continue to expect volatility in this area and the possibility that actual results will lie outside the guidance range.

That completes our brief analysis of the quarter. Back over to you, Steve.

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Jim. And now a brief recap of our strategic progress in recent months. Please turn to slide 12.

Jim touched on the Moho-Bilondo deepwater projects in the Republic of the Congo. We confirm startup ahead of schedule of this 31% owned partner operated project. It is expected to reach maximum total crude oil production of 90,000 barrels per day in 2010.

With our partners we made the final investment decision to construct Platong Gas II natural gas project in Thailand. The $3.1 billion project will add 420 million cubic feet a day of processing capacity. Chevron is the operator and holds a 70% interest. Startup is anticipated in 2011.

We began front-end engineering and design work to develop an LNG project at our 100% owned Wheatstone discovery in Australia. We estimate that Wheatstone holds 4.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas resource.

In Nigeria, along with our partners, we made the final investment decision to develop the deepwater Usan field. Chevron Nigeria Limited holds a 30% interest in this partner-operated project. Usan is expected to have first production in late 2011 with a peak production of 180,000 barrels of oil per day.

Finally, as I mentioned earlier in the week, our Board approved a 12% increase in the quarterly dividend. We have raised our quarterly dividend by a double-digit amount in each of the last four years, and our shareholders have benefited from 21 consecutive years of higher annual dividend payouts.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We will now take your questions, one question and one follow-up per caller please. Matt, please open the lines for questions.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A couple of things. Firstly, a high-level question if I could, and then secondly, a more detailed one.

In terms of the cash management, if you could just talk about firstly your expectations for CapEx this year given what we have seen so far in Q1. I guess you're still on target for your original guidance. And secondly, the sensitivity to buybacks. Should we just keep with the ratable $2 billion?

STEVE CROWE: At this point we confirmed that our capital expenditures for 2008 are still at the budgeted amount, which is just shy of $23 billion. As far as our cash management, I think under the current conditions you can expect a buyback pace comparable to what you have seen in the first quarter. We have had a $2 billion per quarter buyback pace in the third and fourth quarters of last year and now again in the first quarter of 2008. So I think that is a reasonable expectation at this point in time. We certainly have worked into our cash management the higher dividend that was announced a couple of days ago.

PAUL SANKEY: Great. And if I could on the detail question, it is noticeable that it did not come up on the slide, but in Indonesia you are down quite hard in oil and up in gas. Is there something going on on the oil side that we should know about, and if you could just make any other observations about the dynamics of Indonesian growth, that would be great?

And a cheeky follow-up is Bangladesh. Is that peaking now in terms of its volumes, or is there more growth becomes to come?

STEVE CROWE: With respect to Indonesia, one of the things that we had noted in the interim update is in the first quarter gas as it affects OEG production was benefited by a unitization and the retroactive benefit of that unitization.

As far as liquids production in Indonesia, I am not aware of anything that is systemic that would result in the change in terms of our longer-term profile.

As regards Bangladesh, that operation has been running very well, and there has been increased demand on the Bangladesh operation. So I do not see any change in the intermediate term here. Thanks very much for your questions.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Steve, in the past you had talked about the underlying decline curve. I think in your assumption that you're using 4.5% for the whole Corporation. In the first quarter, is the number showing any substantial difference from that?

STEVE CROWE: Paul, I don't have a number for the first quarter for that short a period as to what the decline rate is for our base operations. But as George Kirkland mentioned at the analyst meeting in March, we did have a lot of success in 2007 with a decline rate much below the guidance that we are still confirming in that 4.5 to 5% range. As George mentioned, 1 point does not make a trend, and while we were very pleased and optimistic as to the success in 2007, at this stage we would still advise the analyst community to use the guidance of 4.5% to 5%.

Paul, did you have a follow-up question?

PAUL CHENG: I think Jim talked about the underlifting in the quarter. How much has the underlifting in the quarter actually cost you in terms of earnings? And at the end of the first quarter, are we from an inventory standpoint already balanced, or are we still underlifted?

JIM ALEVERAS: Paul, we were underlifted by about 5% in the first quarter. So that is about 50,000 barrels -- a little over 50,000 barrels a day.

PAUL CHENG: Jim, do you have how much it cost you?

JIM ALEVERAS: The impact of a 50,000 barrel a day reduction is shown in our international upstream volumes because it is lifting not production that -- (multiple speakers)

PAUL CHENG: Okay, so 195 million.

JIM ALEVERAS: If you look at our international upstream income, that 195 or roughly $200 million impact is largely because liftings in the first quarter were lower than in the fourth quarter. In the fourth quarter, we were about balanced. We were about 1% underlifted.

PAUL CHENG: So, as of the end of the first quarter, we are underlifted. So in theory we should see an overlifting in the second quarter.

JIM ALEVERAS: Not necessarily in the second quarter but over time. These things are related to the timing of cargoes, but we don't always see them come back each quarter. But over time that is a good assumption.

I would like to emphasize that the volume, the 195 million on slide six for international upstream income reflects not just the liquids underlift, but also affects the favorable impact of the gas unitization agreement that we mentioned. (multiple speakers) -- ahead of those two.

STEVE CROWE: Paul, the only other thing that I would mention to you, when you look at the quantification of the OEG barrels underlift, is that not all barrels carry with them the same degree of profitability. So there can be circumstances where you have comparable underlifts in two periods, but the P&L effect will be very different because it depends on where those underlifts occur.

PAUL CHENG: Certainly. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Citigroup.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: The first question is a follow-up to Paul. The 60,000 barrels per day that Jim mentioned as the underlift from the international upstream, can you quantify the gas unitization benefit? What will be the volumetric effect of that is my first one?

STEVE CROWE: As I recall, the effect of the unitization was about 25,000 barrels a day in terms of OEG production. Again, that will get ratably smaller as you take it out through all four quarters of this year.

DOUG LEGGATE: The second one is actually a downstream question. Jim mentioned the $100 million impact on earnings as a result of the coker being back up, and now you're running heavy oil. Can you give us some idea -- that is an earnings impact. Give us some idea of what the margin benefit was or perhaps to put it another way, what kind of volumes and what kind of grade or crude are you now running there, and how has that changed relative to, let's say, before the project is completed?

STEVE CROWE: The volumes in crude we are running are not substantially different. What is different is that we are no longer running lighter, sweeter crudes. We are running less expensive, heavier crude. I don't have the exact split-out of what our crude slate was, and we would not disclose that for the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter. But you can see the financial impact in the bar there.

STEVE CROWE: And Doug, I would point out that the magnitude of that impact again is influenced by the fact while the coker was down in the fourth quarter, we were by necessity buying lighter, sweeter and more expensive crudes and feedstocks.

DOUG LEGGATE: And not all of the $100 million was margin benefits. Some was lower cost?

JIM ALEVERAS: It is primarily lower cost.

DOUG LEGGATE: Sorry, I mean operating costs as opposed to the cost of crude (multiple speakers) you were not buying the other products in the fourth quarter?

JIM ALEVERAS: Well, it is primarily the cost of feedstock, which is more expensive crude. There were some intermediates purchased, but it was primarily in the fourth quarter we purchased lighter, sweeter crudes.

STEVE CROWE: Did you have another follow-up? Okay. May we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Mark Flannery, Credit Suisse.

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I have got two questions. The first one is, can you give us an idea of what is going on same-store sales-wise just on the West Coast in terms of volumes? I know you mentioned a couple of numbers there during the call, about a 2% drop in gasoline and distillates doing well. But could you just run through them again and include a number for diesel? And then I have a follow-up.

STEVE CROWE: Well, I do not have Chevron's same-store sales comparing first quarter of '08, say, to first quarter of '07 in front of me. But I can tell you that if you look at motor gasoline demand industry wide in the United States using DOE implied demand data, through April demand is down about 7/10 of 1%.

But the interesting component from a portfolio perspective is in PADD five we're down nearly 7%, whereas in PADDS one through four, we're up about .5% during that four-month period.

So we are seeing a greater demand impact here out on the West Coast where Chevron's portfolio was proportionately larger than some of our competitors.

Now on the distillate side in covering all the distillates, US demand for the first four months is down a little less than 3% compared to the comparable period a year ago.

MARK FLANNERY: Just specifically on your own operations, are you exporting distillates right now either from the West Coast or the Gulf?

STEVE CROWE: Not that I am aware of at this juncture.

MARK FLANNERY: Okay. Maybe I could just jam this one in as the follow-up --

STEVE CROWE: And, in fact, we will try to get back to you with the specifics on that if we have any different information.

MARK FLANNERY: Okay. I will call Jim later. But I guess the follow-up, which is not really a follow-up, is, do you have any update on Gorgon maybe to give us right now?

STEVE CROWE: Nothing different than what George and Dave would have described to you at the March analyst meeting. We are pressing ahead with revised compliance for the environmental permit to reflect three rather than two trains on Barrow Island. But we're committed to the project. We're looking for ways to make it economic and take out costs. But the three partners are aligned with respect to the strategies. So it is essentially a confirmation of the information that was provided back in mid-March.

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK: Guys, I'm having trouble understanding the overseas downstream earnings. It almost looks to me, and perhaps you guys can clarify it, as if there were some kind of stepdown that occurred about midyear in '07 impacted both the fourth quarter and the first quarter. If you were to try to reconcile first quarter against year ago first quarter, just looking at the margin comparisons, you would not anywhere near close.

And I guess I'm further puzzled by the comment Jim made regarding the shipping component of such earnings, which up significantly in the first quarter versus the fourth, where it would appear to me tanker rates were down sharply Q4 versus Q1. Any help and then I have got a follow-up.

JIM ALEVERAS: Well, let's take the first part of your question with regard to margins, that the margins that we are quoting are very specific to Chevron's marketing areas internationally. So, as you are familiar with, we're marketing in certain areas, and we use the indicator margins to try to match where we are located, and the margins have been a little weaker but have been mixed overall.

You will recall that last year in this quarter we had the benefit of the sale of our interest in our refinery in the Netherlands --

MARK GILMAN: I took that out, Jim. That is not a factor.

JIM ALEVERAS: And later in the year, we had the benefit of the sale of our refining and marketing assets in the Benelux countries. But if you remove those, yes, margins have been a little bit weaker, and volumes have been a little weaker in the second half of the year than they were in the first half.

But, as to your comment about shipping, we're just looking at the freight rates that are charged for the particular routes and the particular vessels that we use. And, of course, shipping charges are an expense to the rest of the downstream. We broke it out here partly because we wanted to show from a transparency standpoint what the components were.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Let me try my follow-up if I could please. The comment in the US upstream regarding the DD&A, I did some rough math probably not very good at this point in the week, but nonetheless I'm coming up with about a 2 to 2.50 on equivalent barrel increase in the DD&A rate in order to justify that variance.

Given the absence of any negative year-end '07 US reserves data, I don't quite understand what it is with virtually no change in producing projects, if you will, could generate a DD&A increase of that magnitude, and I'm interested in whether it is sustainable going forward?

STEVE CROWE: That is a good question. One of the things that we did in the latter part of 2007 was a full review of the abandonment provision for all of our operations, the so-called ARO liability. And we accrued at year-end 2007 an additional abandonment provision that through the workings of the ARO get accreted as part of the DD&A charge as production occurs through those fields that are so affected.

So there would be some discontinuity as you look at fourth quarter on into the first quarter of this year as a result of that. And I suspect that is the missing piece that you cannot find.

MARK GILMAN: Is that sustainable, Steve?

STEVE CROWE: Well, it is sustainable to the extent that we have increased the abandonment provision for those fields and that higher charge will be taken through DD&A over the life of the fields. And that abandonment provision would have been -- would be higher than in 2008 than it would have been in earlier periods.

OPERATOR: Erik Mielke, Merrill Lynch.

ERIK MIELKE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I have a couple of questions on the upstream production. Firstly, on Asian gas, which was stronger for Bangladesh, Indonesia and Thailand, than what we had modeled, I know you have already touched on this, but I just want to make sure we understand what we should expect for the remainder of 2008, whether the first-quarter production level is a good guide for those three specific countries on natural gas?

STEVE CROWE: I don't have any information to suggest they are not, other the item that I alluded to with respect to the unitization of our gas field in Indonesia. That obviously would have a -- because of the retroactivity would have a greater effect in the first quarter than the other three quarters of the year. Jim, do you have anything else to add to that?

JIM ALEVERAS: No, I don't.

STEVE CROWE: Erik, do you have a follow-up.

ERIK MIELKE: I do. I have two follow-ups if I may, but let me try one first. Certainly Kazakhstan you mentioned that Tengiz will be -- the next step change in Tengiz is in the third quarter. Should we expect a further increase in the second quarter? Is there an element of ramp-up taking place there, and is there any maintenance at Karachaganak that we need to be aware of?

JIM ALEVERAS: Well, let's take Kazakhstan. We're seeing about 90,000 barrel per day improvement in production as a result of the first phase, the sour gas injection. That was ramping up in the first quarter and is now fully ramped up. So you see 34, which is half of 70 MBD increase reflecting our 50% share, that increase ought to be a little higher in the second quarter. But you will not see a substantial change until we get into the third quarter and we have full production facilities.

Now, Erik, you asked about another location?

STEVE CROWE: Karachaganak.

JIM ALEVERAS: Oh, Karachaganak.

ERIK MIELKE: Whether there is maintenance in Karachaganak?

JIM ALEVERAS: I do not have anything on that of substance that I'm looking at here. If there was, it was not something that was terribly dramatic.

STEVE CROWE: Erik, did you have one more question?

ERIK MIELKE: If I can try a cheeky one, just on Nigeria with the outages that other operators have there, have you had any impact on your second-quarter volumes that we need to be aware of?

STEVE CROWE: No, in talking to our operational folks in Nigeria, the impacts that some of the others have faced in the first quarter and here in the early second quarter we have not experienced to the same degree. We have had very, very nominal shut-ins for very short durations in our operations.

I would also point out, too, as Jim and I have mentioned, we have got Agbami coming on here in the third quarter. And Agbami, unlike some of the other operations that are onshore, is a deepwater project, and it is 70 miles offshore. So it is quite a ways away from where some of the unrest has occurred. So we expect that the Agbami project will come as advertised in the third quarter.

Thanks very much, Erik, for your question.

OPERATOR: Neil McMahon, Sanford Bernstein.

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Just a quick question on the exploration wells that are sort of the high profile ones that are getting drilled. Any update on Jack and St. Malo appraisal wells?

And also, could you give us some sort of guidance as to when the drilling of the Orphan Basin well is going to take place?

STEVE CROWE: With respect to the Orphan Basin, I recall that the next well would be drilled in 2009. And as far as the follow-up wells for Jack and St. Malo, they are under -- one is underway now as I recall and another a little bit later in the year. And then decisions will be made following those evaluations as to whether or not Jack and St. Malo will be kept as separate projects or conceivably combined.

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay. Maybe as a loose follow-up in the upstream, just in terms of the whole Caspian Basin and the CPC pipeline, how much are you guys involved in looking at a Bosphorus bypass pipeline in Turkey as a way of making sure that the increased Tengiz volumes, especially as we go forward over time, can find a decent route to market?

JIM ALEVERAS: All I can say is that we are looking at all of our options because obviously optionality is very important to us in terms of expansion of our existing pipeline. But right now we have rail capacity to handle all of the exports in addition to the pipeline capacity that would result from an expansion of the Tengiz project. But in terms of what specifics we are looking at over and above rail, we would rather not discuss that.

STEVE CROWE: I would say that the discussions with the partners to expand the capacity of CPC as it has been is ongoing, and there are various conditions that each party has tabled that we're looking at, but we will still continue with the negotiations for the expansion of CPC.

As Jim said, we otherwise have mechanisms to move Tengiz crude, and just as we had done before the CPC pipeline was completed, we are using rail and other means to move the crude. Thanks very much for your question.

OPERATOR: Geri Gunn, BlackRock.

STEVE CROWE: Okay. Let's try the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.

MARK GILMAN: Are there any rate of return or cumulative production thresholds on Block 14 that would be encountered -- Block 14 in Angola -- that would be encountered this year at current price levels?

STEVE CROWE: Not that I'm aware of. Hang on one sec here. I will see if I can see anything. In terms of price levels looking at objective -- no, there is nothing substantive that is associated with the African operations.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, if I could just sneak a follow-up. Steve, I was not clear what you meant by that roughly 25,000 a day characterization of the impact of the Indonesian unitization on the gas side. I thought that there was a onetime retroactive element which is benefiting the first quarter and at a considerably smaller positive impact going forward. What was the 25 equivalents a day supposed to represent?

STEVE CROWE: That was the retroactivity piece that I was alluding to that would be nonrecurring obviously in other quarters. So your understanding is correct.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Fine. Thank you.

JIM ALEVERAS: Do we have other callers?

OPERATOR: At this time I'm showing no further questions.

JIM ALEVERAS: Well, thank you.

STEVE CROWE: I'm presuming that we have been able to cover your questions in the time allotted and I think in large measure because our interim update provided a lot of information that has proved to be consistent with the earnings release that you saw today.

So, in closing, I want to express my appreciation to everyone's participation on the call, and I especially want to thank each of the analysts on behalf of the participants for their questions during this morning's session. So, Matt, I will turn it back to you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's 2008 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
indon : Indonesia | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080517e45200120
  


 HD
 Q4  2007  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
7,934 words
   PD
1 February 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to  Chevron's fourth quarter 2007 earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Dave O'Reilly. Please go ahead, sir.   

DAVE O'REILLY, CHAIRMAN AND CEO,  CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thank you, Matt. Welcome to  Chevron's fourth-quarter earnings conference call and Webcast. I'm joined today by Steve Crowe, our Chief Financial Officer, and Jim Aleveras, General Manager, Investor Relations. Our focus today is on  Chevron's financial and operating results for the fourth quarter, and we'll refer to slides that are available on the Web.   

   TD
Turning to slide 2, before we start, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. I ask you to review the cautionary statement on this slide.   

I'll begin with slide 3, which provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company's fourth quarter earnings were $4.9 billion, or $2.32 per diluted share. Full-year results of $18.7 billion mark the fourth consecutive year of record earnings. Our fourth-quarter earnings were 29% higher than the fourth quarter of 2006, reflecting higher crude prices, which more than offset weaker downstream results. Fourth-quarter earnings rose 31% compared to the third quarter of 2007, which Steve will discuss in detail shortly. Return on capital employed for the year was 23%, and our debt ratio at year-end was 8.6%. Stock buybacks during the quarter were $2 billion, and $7 billion for the year in total. Total shareholder return for the year was over 30%.   

Turning to slide 4, our total capital spending for 2007 was $20 billion. Upstream spending accounted for 15.5 billion, or 78% of the total. Our cash C&E, which excludes our share of -- equity share of affiliate outlets, totaled 17.7 billion for the year. Our announced capital program for 2008 of 22.9 billion represents an increase of 2.9 billion over 2007 expenditures. About $2 billion of the increase is earmarked for upstream, reflecting the capital-intensive phase of some of our long-term growth projects. The change in downstream spending is due to a number of investments to upgrade our refining network.   

Steve will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.   

STEVE CROWE, VP AND CFO,  CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Dave. My remarks compare results of the fourth quarter 2007 to the third quarter. As a reminder, our earnings release compared fourth quarter 2007 to the same quarter a year ago.   

Turning to slide 5, fourth-quarter net income was almost $1.2 billion higher than the third quarter. Starting with the left side of the chart, significantly higher oil prices and slightly higher natural gas prices benefited the Company's upstream results worldwide. Higher international liftings were also a factor. Downstream results fell from the prior quarter. The third quarter included a $265 million gain on the sale of our fuels marketing assets in Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The variance in the residual other bar is the net of everything else.   

Slide 6 summarizes the results of our US upstream earnings, which improved by about $240 million between quarters. Higher realizations, primarily for liquids, benefited earnings by $400 million.  Chevron's US crude oil realizations were up roughly $13 per barrel. While the average quarterly price of WTI increased more than $15 per barrel between quarters, much of our Gulf of Mexico crude oil production is priced on a lagged basis and rose about $11 per barrel.   

Production volumes fell 1.5% between quarters, largely due to operational downtime and field declines in the Gulf of Mexico. The $90 million DD&A benefit primarily reflects the absence of the third quarter's provision for asset retirement obligations. Exploration and operating expense increased about $165 million between quarters. Exploration expense was up about $90 million, mostly on higher well write-offs. Operating expense was $75 million higher due to higher production taxes and maintenance costs. Other primarily reflects lower gas marketing margins.   

Turning to slide 7, international upstream earnings for the fourth quarter were almost $1.2 billion higher than the third quarter's results. Higher oil and gas prices increased earnings by about $700 million. Unit realizations for liquids rose by $13 per barrel, in line with the percentage change in Brent spot prices. Higher liftings during the quarter, particularly in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Australia and Nigeria, improved earnings by $280 million. Tax items benefited earnings by 210 million between quarters. This mainly reflects the absence of adverse tax adjustments last quarter, along with net favorable adjustments spread across a number of countries in the current period. The variance in other reflects the absence of asset impairment charges recorded in the third quarter, which were offset by higher operating expenses.   

Slide 8 summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes produced from oil sands in Canada. Production rose by 22,000 barrels per day between quarters. During the fourth quarter, US production decreased 11,000 barrels per day compared to the prior period, mainly due to operational downtime and field declines in the Gulf of Mexico. Outside the US, oil and gas production increased 33,000 barrels per day between quarters. The increase reflected the absence of third-quarter shutdowns in the UK and Azerbaijan. The Tengiz expansion project in Kazakhstan came onstream late in the fourth quarter and was gradually ramping up. Partially offsetting was a drop in Canadian volumes due to the November fire at the Athabasca upgrader and lower Hibernia production.   

Turning to slide 9, we'll now briefly discuss our 2008 production outlook. As a reminder, during our fourth quarter 2006 conference call a year ago, we estimated that total 2007 production would be about 2.6 million barrels a day. That estimate assumed an oil price of about $60 per barrel. Despite the impact of higher crude oil prices on net production, we were able to exceed our estimate by 19,000 barrels a day. The increased volumes came from major capital projects, fewer storm-related shut-ins, and lower base business decline rates.   

As we look to 2008 production in a $70 per barrel price environment, we are estimating a production increase of a little more than 1%. If prices were to remain at the current $90 level, production would be on the order of 50 to 60,000 barrels a day lower. As noted in the slide, the 2008 production reflects an overall base business decline rate of 4.5%, which is consistent with our historical experience.   

We anticipate that the startup of major capital projects in 2008 and the ramp up of volumes from projects begun in earlier years will add about 150,000 barrels a day. These projects include the Tengiz expansion in Kazakhstan, Agbami in Nigeria, and Blind Faith in the Gulf of Mexico. We also anticipate continued production growth from our Bibiana field in Bangladesh. Looking beyond 2008 production, we reaffirm our objective to grow production volumes from 2005 to 2010 by an annual rate of 3%.   

Before moving on to the downstream, I'd like to briefly address our reserves replacement for 2007. At the end of February, we'll file our Form 10-K with the SEC, which will have considerable detail on our oil and gas reserves. We haven't yet completed all of our governance reviews, but I can tell you today that we anticipate the 2007 reserves replacement ratio on an oil equivalent basis will be in the 10 to 15% range. This low replacement rate was affected by three primary factors.   

First, SEC rules require that reserves be calculated using year-end prices. The price of WTI increased $35 per barrel from the end of 2006 to the end of 2007. This large rise in commodity prices reduced our reported reserves under production sharing contracts and variable royalty arrangements that are common in international operations. We estimate the impact of higher prices reduced our replacement ratio by about 30%.   

Second, sales and acquisitions during the year reduced the replacement ratio by about 10%.   

And third, although we made a great deal of progress on our major development projects, the timing and circumstances were such that we were unable to book large reserves additions for these projects or for contract extensions in 2007. The timing of reserve recognition for these types of events varies significantly from year to year. Given the number of major projects in development, we anticipate a meaningful impact on reserve additions in the years ahead.   

Besides the information that will be presented on reserves in the 10-K, George Kirkland will discuss this topic and our outlook in more depth at the meeting with security analysts and its Webcast on March 11th. He'll discuss not only reserves, but also the success we have had in adding resources last year.   

Moving to the downstream on slide 10. US downstream operations posted a loss for the second consecutive quarter. Refining and marketing indicator margins on the West Coast improved slightly in the fourth quarter, while there was small declines on the Gulf Coast. On balance, this effect was a favorable $35 million between quarters. Higher volumes on light product refinery production benefited the fourth-quarter earnings by $50 million compared to the prior quarter.   

In our conference call last quarter, we mentioned the adverse impact of timing effects, such as provisionally priced foreign crude, as crude prices increased $11 per barrel during the third quarter. Over the fourth quarter, the average price of WTI increased by $15 per barrel, adding to the adverse impact of these timing effects, as shown on the chart. The other variance reflects higher operating expenses, partly stemming from shutdowns of the Pascagoula and El Segundo refineries. Also included in this amount are the costs for provisions for litigation, offset by a gain on the sale of our proprietary credit card businesses.   

While this slide accounts for the change in earnings between quarters, the fact remains that our US downstream business operations lost money in the fourth quarter. On an absolute basis, two major factors caused this.   

First, our Pascagoula refinery's crude unit was down, and our El Segundo refinery was undergoing a coker upgrade to process heavier crudes. This raised our feedstock costs, so our actual margins were less than the indicator margins. It also increased our operating expenses.   

The second factor was the sharp rise in crude oil prices. This caused us to incur losses on provisionally priced crudes, and to have derivative losses under mark-to-market accounting along with inventory effects in the period. These combined effects amounted to roughly $400 million in the fourth quarter.   

Turning to slide 11. International downstream earnings fell $228 million from the third quarter's results. Refining indicator margins were generally higher, while marketing margins were mixed across our international geographic areas. On balance, higher overall fourth-quarter margins offset a small adverse volume effect to produce the $40 million favorable variance shown on the chart. Most of the timing effects, which reduced earnings by $80 million, were associated with inventory accounting. The third quarter included a $265 million gain on the sale of our Benelux fuels marketing operations. The $77 million benefit shown in the other bar includes favorable variances in foreign exchange, as well as other items that were mostly offsetting.   

Slide 12 shows earnings from chemical operations were $69 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $103 million in the third quarter. Results for olefins declined during the quarter, primarily due to lower ethylene and polyethylene sales volumes and margins. The decline in aromatics was also largely due to lower volumes and margins. Included in the other bar are tax benefits and the absence of the third-quarter environmental provision, partly offset by lower additive earnings.   

Slide 13 covers all other. Fourth-quarter results were net charges of $237 million, compared to net charges of $193 million in the third quarter. The absence of third-quarter environmental provisions was largely offset by a decrease in net interest income. The other bar includes the impact of tax benefits, offset by higher year-end corporate expenses. Fourth-quarter net charges for this segment fell above our standard guidance range of 160 to $200 million, as we had indicated in our interim update.   

That concludes our brief analysis of the quarter. Dave, back to you.   

DAVE O'REILLY: Thank you, Steve. Before I get to your questions, let's have a brief recap of our strategic progress in recent months. So, please turn to slide 14.   

With our partners, we made the final investment decision to construct a 5.2 million metric ton LNG Plant in Angola, in which  Chevron holds a 36% interest.   

We signed a 30-year production sharing contract with  China National Petroleum Corporation to assume operatorship and hold a 49% interest in the development of the Chuandongbei natural gas area in Central China.   

As Steve mentioned, we initiated production from the first phase of expansion at our 50% owned Tengiz field. And although this phase did not add significantly to fourth-quarter production, earlier this week we announced the milestone of increasing daily crude oil production capacity by 90,000 barrels, to about 400,000 barrels per day. The addition of full facilities in the second half of 2008 is expected to further increase daily crude production capacity to 540,000 barrels per day.   

We signed an agreement to increase daily sales of natural gas in Thailand by 500 million cubic feet to 1.2 billion cubic feet by 2012 from company-operated offshore blocks 10 through 13. And in late October we had received 10-year extensions for these concessions to the year 2022.   

Our 50% owned Yeosu refinery in South Korea completed its major upgrade to process heavier crudes into light products. And in December we completed the second phase of modifications at our refinery in El Segundo, California, also enabling the processing of heavier crude oils into light products.   

In summary, 2007 was a very successful year for  Chevron and our shareholders. We achieved record earnings, invested in our excellent queue of capital projects, increased our annual dividend payment for the 20th consecutive year, and repurchased $7 billion of shares. Our total shareholder return was the best among our peer group. As we enter 2008, we look forward to the completion of several major growth projects and further progress on our strategic goals.   

That concludes my prepared remarks, and Steve's as well, and we'll now take your questions. One question and one follow-up per caller, please. Matt, please open the lines for questions. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Paul Cheng,  Lehman Brothers.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: This is either for Steve or for Dave. You talked about briefly on the reserve replacement, you think that you have not been able to book any reserve from the major projects. Just (inaudible) Angola LNG, and you have a contract extension in Thailand [Gulf]. You also started with Tengiz. None of those that has been able to allow you to book any reserve in 2007?   

STEVE CROWE: That's a good question and a fair question to ask. For the Angola LNG, we're very confident in the resource base, as the plant owners have the rights to virtually all the associated gas in offshore Angola. However, before booking reserves from properties owned by others, we're securing third-party certifications. We anticipate those reserve adds in 2008 and in future years as the offshore Angola properties are developed.   

With respect to Thailand, we're also very confident that the billion barrel probable reserve base will move into the P1 reserves as we delineate the field and the projects mature. But at this point, at the time of signing the concessions, we don't meet the requirements for P1 per the SEC definitions. Do you have a follow-up question, Paul?   

PAUL CHENG: How about the Tengiz? The solid gas (inaudible) presume that that would improve the recoverable rate?   

DAVE O'REILLY: I think when you see our 10-K, you'll find that we have a lot more detail on increased recoveries where they're appropriate. But I think, getting back to the year, I'd like to emphasize the point that the reserves are there; the resources are there. But because of the facts -- the fact that we have to go through a certification process, because of the complexity of the Angola situation, as well as technical reasons, we booked reserves in Thailand on an incremental basis. Because these are small -- multiple small fields, and small compartmentalized resources that you must actually develop a plan to drill and have the drill bit involved before you book the reserves. So we're confident that the resources are there, but it's a matter of timing for booking these reserves. Thank you.   

STEVE CROWE: I'd also mention that in about five weeks when we have our analyst meeting and Webcast in New York, George Kirkland, our EVP of Upstream, will talk more about the reserves booking. But he'll also talk a good deal about the success we've had with the drill bit and the resource adds that we had in 2007. So, you and others will be able to get a lot more detail on this subject at that point. Thanks very much for your question.   

OPERATOR: Arjun Murti,  Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I had another question on the reserves. I think we certainly appreciate that  Chevron does have a sizable resource base of what we call 3P reserves. And in any one year there can be volatility (inaudible) booked to proved reserves. We understand the SEC pricing effects, and we appreciate those disclosures. We appreciate the asset sales. But I guess it's now sort of four years where we're kind of decently below 100%. And  Chevron especially, both as a merged company and legacy, has such a long track record of exceeding 100% that something has meaningfully changed here in the last four years despite you all actually having very good exploration success and signing a number of contracts. Is it just that in the old days the legacy assets -- North Sea, US and so forth, Indonesia -- you were more predictably able to book the reserves and proved year end, year out, and we're in a transition to these new reserves where the timing is more extended? Or has something else changed that's just causing now so many years to [sub] 100%, even if we make some of the pricing adjustments and the asset sale adjustments?   

DAVE O'REILLY: I'll take that question. First of all, I think your observation is a good one. But I think if you go back, say, to the '90s, back over the last 20 years or so, we were -- the configuration of our portfolio has changed quite a bit. In those days we were adding multiple, multiple small amounts of reserves over multiple, multiple small fields, when we had thousands of fields and thousands of developments. Our portfolio has deliberately shifted, of course, over the last 10 years or more, and now we are looking at significantly bigger projects that are much more lumpy. So you cannot expect to see -- you will see choppiness here in the reserves booking.   

Now, having said that, even over the transition period of the last 10 years, our reserve replacement has been in excess of 100%. But you're right; in the last few years it has been much more choppy. So I expect you're going to see years when we are significantly above 100% on a one-year basis as things come together, but you're also going to find years when we're below it. And of course, all of that has been exacerbated by the pricing effects that you've talked about.   

I think if we look over the last few years alone, 600 or 700 million barrels of oil have just disappeared actually as a result of a fairly good thing, and that is higher prices, [hirings] and higher cash flow. So you are going to see a more choppy period ahead, some years when we're below, some years when we're substantially above. And it's a matter of timing. But we are adding the resources, and the examples that we cited in our response to Paul Cheng's question, I think, are very good examples of projects that are complicated, particularly in the case of Angola, that require third-party certification. Because we don't actually, in the case of Angola, own all of those reserves. But we are entitled to them, and we are entitled to book them as they're certified and following SEC rules. So, thank you for the question.   

STEVE CROWE: Did you have any follow-up you'd like?   

ARJUN MURTI: No. That's a very full answer. I appreciate it.   

OPERATOR: Robert Kessler, Simmons & Co.   

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & CO.: I wanted see if we could look a little bit more closely at your 2008 updated production outlook. If I go back to what you were expecting in the March 2007 analyst meeting, I want to say the number was closer to 2.8 million barrels a day, so roughly 150,000 barrels a day higher than what you've got in your slide today. I know a lot has changed since then; prices have certainly increased; Tahiti has slipped. But I wanted to see if you could provide some sort of reconciliation between those two figures.   

STEVE CROWE: In our analyst meeting back in March of last year, you could interpolate from the bar chart that our anticipated production for 2008 would be on the order of 2.8. And as we have mentioned today, at a $70 price environment, we're guiding you folks that it's 2.65. So your math, Robert, is about right; it looks to be about a 150,000 barrels a day difference.   

We would -- we'd ascribe in the neighborhood of 95 to 100,000 barrels of that to major capital project delays. And it's as you pointed out; it's Tahiti slipping out of 2008, and it's a little slower ramp up, particularly for our TCO expansion this year. The other big component that's on the order of about 40,000 barrels a day, or thereabouts, would be attributable to higher prices that we're basing our production profile on this year versus the information that we showed at the analyst meeting. So that accounts for the lion's share.   

But I would tell you that as we go forward, we still expect that between 2005 and 2010, our standing guidance of increasing our production by an annual rate of 3% still holds. These projects, this timeframe, will have that production more back-end loaded. But we're very confident that over the next couple of years, we're going to be able to increase production and achieve that production growth rate. I hope that helps you. Do you have a follow-up on that?   

ROBERT KESSLER: That helps. Thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate,  Citigroup.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: If I could just get some clarity on that last answer, Steve, if you don't mind. Because the implication of the original target was about a $400,000 barrel per day increase over the five-year period. The price deck has, obviously, moved up. So just to be clear, is this -- your consistency with that guidance, even though we've had a substantially higher move in the oil price?   

STEVE CROWE: That is correct. The guidance that we're giving still pings off now a -- sort of a $70 price deck. You recall, though, Doug, back at the time that we first gave the guidance, we said our production profile from '05 to '10 would be in excess of 3%. So, we think we still have some ability to accommodate the higher prices.   

DAVE O'REILLY: Just following up with Steve's point, if prices were to go to 90 or 100 and stay there, then we would have to reevaluate, I think, at least at the margin, some of those assumptions. But our assumption here is we're just using $70 at the moment. And the reason we picked 70 on this chart that you're seeing is that it was about 70 in 2007. So we're trying to take out the impact of prices in this analysis.   

STEVE CROWE: I also mentioned when I was talking about our outlook for 2008, I kind of gave you some manner by which you could adjust when I commented that if prices for 2008 were to be, say, in the $90 per barrel level, that the production would be on the order of 50 to 60,000 barrels a day lower. So I have to tell you, though, that the price effect associated with our various contracts overseas is -- it varies with the price range in which those changes occur. So it's not totally linear. So the guidance that I gave you was moving, say, from a $70 per barrel environment to that of a $90 per barrel environment.   

Did you have another question?   

DOUG LEGGATE: If I could [risk] just a short follow-up. It's on the decline rate guidance. I think you've kind of declared that for everyone to see. A lot of the projects you have, however, coming on are, arguably, quite long life. How would you expect that, or would you expect that to (inaudible) and moderate as these new barrels come onstream?   

DAVE O'REILLY: We would. We actually did better than 4.5% during 2007. We're not confident enough yet in our -- in the certainty of what we're accomplishing to forecast that that is a permanent shift. But you're correct. As you move forward with longer lived projects, as we expect that will make a transaction transition at some point in the future. And that's something we'll address when we feel confident that we can forecast something that's better than 4.5. So at the moment we're sticking with our 4.5% guidance. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.   

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK: I wanted to see if I could just try and get a better understanding of the economic structure of the Angola LNG project. I think I hear what you're saying that because you have rights to the gas, it allows you to book the reserves. But it's my understanding that you're still buying the gas from Sonangol. And therefore, this is not a typical integrated West African LNG project. Can you shed any light on this issue at all?   

DAVE O'REILLY: I think -- let me just put it this way. This gas -- the plant owners are entitled to this gas under Angolan legislation. So this is legislated, but it's not all coming from one field. There are multiple fields involved. So there is legislation in place; all of it has been fully vetted through the government. So there are the rights to this gas, and under SEC rules we will be able to book those gases. But because not all of them fall into our gas fields, if you will, or our gas production, these have to be certified. And that's what's underway right now. So, other than that, that's about as far as I can go in answering your question.   

MARK GILMAN: But, Dave, aren't you buying the gas from Sonangol even in those fields where you have a working interest (technical difficulty) applicable production sharing contract?   

DAVE O'REILLY: It's not a purchase arrangement. It's dedication to the plant arrangement. That's about as far as I can go.   

OPERATOR: [William Thur], [WH Reed].   

WILLIAM THUR, ANALYST, [WH REED]: A couple of questions for Steve, a question and a follow-up on the general issue of accounting. You mentioned that the US downstream, if I got this correctly, was burdened by $400 million in the fourth quarter, roughly, of inventory and derivative effects. I assume that's -- is that related to foreign oil pricing effects, or is this different? And would that go away in the first quarter, for example, or how permanent might that be? My follow-up is also an accounting question. Without getting into the nuance of timing of reserve adds, does the formality of what you will have to report at year-end influence your book DD&A as we go forward?   

STEVE CROWE: Let me start off with the comments regarding the US downstream. As I had mentioned, in an absolute sense, we estimate that the fourth-quarter US downstream results were adversely affected by about $400 million in the quarter. And there were kind of two main areas -- there are two main areas that account for this.   

Firstly is the downtime at our refineries. Order of magnitude, that's about $250 million impact. That reflects both planned downtime, as was the case in our El Segundo refinery when we had the coker down, as well as unplanned downtime that we had as Pascagoula as a result of the crude unit fire that occurred back in August. The components of those are both sort of a lost opportunity profit in the margin, because we had to acquire more expensive feedstocks, such as light sweet crudes, to input to the refineries. It also reflects that we had higher operating expense while those refineries were down. Roughly speaking, the impact of the refineries being down was about split equally between planned downtime and unplanned downtime.   

Now, the balance of that $400 million, or roughly 150, we would ascribe to -- say called -- timing differences, really driven by the rapid escalation in the price of crude oil from the beginning to the end of the fourth quarter. And as you pointed out, that affects both our contractual arrangements for the purchase of provisionally priced foreign crudes, but also some of our derivatives that we have, which are marked to market at the end of each period, whereas the physicals associated with that would be recognized in a different period.   

The inventory impacts for the fourth quarter in the US weren't all that great. There was a bigger impact overseas. So I hope that gives you and the other analysts a fix on trying to adjust, or normalize, if you will, our fourth-quarter US results, which are attributable (1) to the rapid rise in crude prices, and (2) to the downtime that we had in our refineries.   

Now, the second question, I think, you had was with respect to the impact on our DD&A rates as a result of reserve additions. And of course, that gets into the calculation for determining the DD&A rates. So it depends on where the reserve additions occur and where the decrements might occur, but it certainly influences the rate.   

The other item that I mentioned to you is that as we go forward, we'll be providing information in our 10-K that will address changes in our abandonment as well, and that will have impact prospectively on our DD&A rates going forward. So I don't want to go into a full accounting lesson on all of that, but your question is a good one, and it will impact future years. Thanks very much for your question and your follow-up.   

OPERATOR: Neil McMahon, Sanford Bernstein.   

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I've got an umbrella question on Nigeria. Maybe that's the best way to put it. First of all, just after (inaudible) comments about what's happening on the delta, obviously, you've got a big position there as well, and you've been affected by the outages. They suggested that potentially all the (inaudible) LNG will be significantly delayed. I just wanted to get an update from yourselves, and also your (inaudible) GTL plant, and how things are going there. Thanks.   

DAVE O'REILLY: First of all, our total performance in the delta has not been that significantly affected on a current basis. I think my recollection is that the impacts of disturbances there in the swamp areas onshore is less than 20,000 barrels a day net to  Chevron. And we've made some significant progress over the last few years in steadily improving our situation there from two or three years ago.   

Secondly, I think it's too early to predict the schedule for Olokola. We have a new administration; there's a new government. There is a restructuring going on in the petroleum sector to separate NNPC and make it a commercially entity, and put the regulatory function back in the government with a number of distinct compartments; kind of upstream sector of the government, regulatory sector, and a downstream sector. And then there is a whole new look being given to the gas business. So in light of all of the changes in the government, I think it's unrealistic for us -- and the policies around how this whole area is going to be managed, I think it would be unrealistic. And at Shell -- I hadn't heard what Shell had said, but I think anyone associated with something that's brand-new there would take the same position, that we've got to reassess the timing of this and wait until we understand how these policies and regulations are going to impact the business before we will move forward. And I think we're in that zone right now. Hopefully some clarity will come to this as we move through 2008.   

Having said that, our main focus in 2008 will be bringing the Agbami onstream. And Agbami, the FPSO is now on-site; it's been hooked up; we're continuing to complete wells, and we expect that some time in the middle of the year or so that Agbami will be coming onstream. So that's kind of a long-winded answer to your question, but it's probably, I think, a realistic assessment of the situation there.   

NEIL MCMAHON: Maybe just a follow-up on that. I'm just wondering if your comments are the same for the GTL plant. Just also on Agbami, I'm surprised that when yourself and Steve mentioned about reserve replacement rates, you didn't have a bit more to add on Agbami. Have you effectively booked all of the Agbami volumes already, because one presumes it's going to be on in the next few months?   

DAVE O'REILLY: First of all, absolutely not. But let me remind you that the regulations there -- we've booked an initial quantity, but the regulations there are very specific. You have to book the most conservative end of the range on a project like that until you actually have demonstrated oil flowing and production, and that, of course, you can't do until you start it up. So there will be more bookings in Agbami; it's an enormous resource base. But we've only booked the initial quantities there so far.   

Now, on EGTL, it's under construction, it is still progressing, and we'll give you an update on the timing for that in the March meeting. But it's still actively under construction. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: [Eric Milke],  Merrill Lynch.

ERIC MILKE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: My question relates to TCO. It's good to see that you're making progress on the expansion. You mentioned the second phase of the expansion. Can you give us some guidance on the ramp-up profile, perhaps the average contribution to second half, or the anticipated exit rate for 2008?   

DAVE O'REILLY: I'd like to hold that back until March. We are making progress month by month there. The SGI plant, the first phase of that is up and running, and it's been ramping up. So we'll have a much better handle on this as we come out of the winter months. Winter months are difficult months from a construction perspective. The temperatures there have been 30 below in recent weeks. So if you'll hang onto that question until March, we'll have, I think, a better handle on where we think we'll be on the second phase of expansion there.   

ERIC MILKE: Fair enough. Can I ask on the second expansion, though, on the (inaudible) route, have you made progress on CPC expansion?   

DAVE O'REILLY: Absolutely. Let me just first of all talk -- we have restructured the CPC arrangements to put the current pipeline on a very -- on a much more financially sound footing, and we're now in the phase of dealing with negotiating the terms for expansion of the pipeline. However, we're not depending on that expansion to move oil out of Tengiz. Many of you will recall that we had a long history of being able to move oil from Tengiz before there ever was a CPC pipeline, from 1993 until about the year 2000. So we have multiple options for movement of Tengiz oil. We have a very skilled and accomplished group that are capable of doing that by a number of different routes. And while we, obviously, desire to expand CPC, and believe it will be expanded, we are confident in our ability to continue to move the crude, even the additional crude from Tengiz, even without the CPC expansion being in place. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.   

MARK GILMAN: Wondering if I could possibly get a little bit better handle on the base US cap spending. '08 versus '07, if we take out of each year the major project elements -- in other words, Tahiti and Blind Faith -- what would that comparison look like?   

DAVE O'REILLY: I think it would be rather flat, Mark, in round numbers. It's a subtlety that isn't right at my fingertips right now. But I think it would be rather flat. And it reflects the fact that we have a big resource base. We are continuing to see a lot of progress in other areas, which tend to skate under the radar screen. For example, San Joaquin Valley, where we are continuing to make great gains in expanding our production there, or at least moderating the decline. The mid-continent area, where we are beginning -- of course we've got plans to grow in the Piceance, and expect to have production starting there around the end of the year. So I think -- as to the specific numbers, let me call on Steve to give you a little bit of a highlight.   

STEVE CROWE: I think Dave's question -- his response is right on, but let me give you kind of directionally on some of the big projects. If I take a look at 2007 and compare it to 2008, the spending for Blind Faith will actually be lower in '08 that it was in '07. For -- a little bit more money will be spent for, say, the Great White/Silvertip/Tobago area. In the case of Tahiti, our spending in '08 will be somewhat less than it was in '07. But as Dave pointed out, in the Piceance area, we see spending ramping up there in '08 versus '07. And while I haven't racked up all the pieces, I think the underlying comment that Dave made was right; if you pulled out the big projects that are sort of identifiable in both years, the underlying spending is probably fairly flat.   

MARK GILMAN: So, Steve, if we allow for inflation, it's actually down a little bit.   

DAVE O'REILLY: We're not seeing as much inflation there as [you think]. The inflation, in things like deepwater and that type of thing, but land rigs and some of the other things we're doing are not seeing -- onshore we're not seeing quite the same rate of inflation. So I don't think you can draw that conclusion that easily. We'll try to put more depth behind that in our March meeting, and see if we can't get a better handle on it for you.   

MARK GILMAN: One my more quasi-related follow-up, if I could. [Without] regard to the timing of the ramp up on the Tengiz expansion, are you in a position yet to be able to assess reservoir response to the injections? I noticed, Dave, when you characterized the project in your summary comments, that instead of using the range of potential increase in production, you really focused on numbers at the high-end with your 540,000 a day comment.   

DAVE O'REILLY: The high-end of the range has to do with our belief in the capacity of the plant and the facilities. The reservoir response, I think, we're already demonstrating. Because remember, we've taken -- we've had an experience now with sweet gas injection dating over a year before we ever got to injecting sour gas, which we've been currently -- we've been doing now for numbers of months. So we've already demonstrated that the reservoir is performing, and we are confident that that part of it is well underway. And with time and with further expansion of facilities, we may be able to -- we will probably be able to add further to our reserves. But the 540 is a reflection of our belief that that is -- that capacity is now demonstrably within reach. I think that's probably the best way to put it.   

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Macquarie.   

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: I wanted to inquire about what you're seeing for refined product demand right now in the United States, and maybe particularly in California, in light of the weak refining margin conditions that we've been seeing recently.   

DAVE O'REILLY: Let me take that. I think we're seeing -- if I look back on the year, I think we're seeing year-over-year gasoline demand, actually '06 to '07, slightly up, and distillate demand up by about 1.5%.   

Having said that, there has been a downward year-over-year trend, quarter by quarter, during the year 2007. In the first quarter we had year-over-year gains. In the second quarter they were somewhat less. In the third quarter -- and I'm talking about nationwide -- we were seeing flat. And in the fourth quarter, nationwide, there was a decline in demand, I think, in the order of 0.5% to 1% with the comparable period the year before. And the West Coast [pet 5] is no exception to that. We're seeing those same trends occur in the West as we're seeing throughout the nation. So, there is no question there has been a softening industry-wide throughout '07. And I think as we start '08, it's early days yet, but we're probably experiencing similar softness as we saw in the fourth quarter.   

JASON GAMMEL: Thanks, Dave. Maybe as a follow-up, would you mind commenting on what you're seeing in the Asian markets that you're currently marketing in?   

DAVE O'REILLY: The Asian markets are still doing very well. I was in 14 developing countries during the second half of '08 -- '07, pardon me -- and I couldn't find any one of them that was growing at less than 7% GDP. So the markets overall there have been performing well. They maybe come off a little bit of these higher prices, but many of them have subsidized oil and gas prices. You're not seeing the sort of demand impacts there that we have seen in the rest.   

If you look back -- if I take a macro view now, and bring you right back up to kind of 40,000 feet, if you look over the last few years, I think you'll see that aggregate demand in OECD has been relatively flat. And the global growth that we're seeing has been driven by -- essentially by the developing world; developing Asia, there's a big, big engine here; and the Middle East itself, where a lot of the oil and gas demand is heavily subsidized, and there doesn't seem to be any real significant slowdown occurring there. So that's it in a nutshell. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Eric Milke,  Merrill Lynch.

ERIC MILKE: Mine is just a quick follow-up on the fourth-quarter US exploration expense. You mentioned that [these were mainly well write-offs]; if you can give a bit more color on that, that would be great.   

DAVE O'REILLY: There were a few in the Gulf of Mexico. I don't have all of the specifics at hand, but they were generally in the Gulf of Mexico. And they were -- I just don't have all of it at my fingertips.   

STEVE CROWE: You can, after the call, give Jim a call, and he'll give you a little color commentary on that to the extent that we can talk about them.   

DAVE O'REILLY: I think it's coming up to the top of the hour, so I think it's a good time for us to wrap up. I want to thank you all for participating in the call today, and I look forward to seeing many of you at our March security analyst meeting in New York. Thank you all again. And thank you, Matt, for hosting the call.   

OPERATOR: This concludes today's fourth quarter 2007 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080208e4210013b
  


 HD
 Q3  2007  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,303 words
   PD
2 November 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Matt, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to  Chevron's third-quarter 2007 earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.   

I will now turn the conference over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Steve Crowe. Please go ahead, sir.   

   TD
STEVE CROWE, VP & CFO, CHEVRON: Thank you, Matt. Welcome to  Chevron's third-quarter earnings conference call.   

Today on the call I am joined by George Kirkland, Executive Vice President Upstream and Gas; Mike Wirth, Executive Vice President Global Downstream, and Jim Aleveras, General Manager Investor Relations.   

Our focus today is on  Chevron's financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2007. We will refer to the slides that are available on the Web.   

I remind you that today's presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements and ask that you review the safe harbor statement on slide two.   

Turning to slide three, the Company reported earnings of $3.7 billion in the third quarter compared with $5 billion in the third quarter 2006. Earnings of $1.75 per diluted share were down from $2.29 per share reported for the same quarter last year. Both periods reflected about $400 million or approximately $0.19 per share of net charges associated with non-recurring items. The main driver for the earnings change was a decline of over $1 billion in downstream profits. Escalating costs for crude oil feedstocks could not be fully recovered in the market. This impact was global, but it was especially significant on the US West Coast. Overall third-quarter results were $1.7 billion lower than our record second quarter 2007, which Jim will discuss shortly.   

Return on capital employed for the trailing four quarters was 22%. During the quarter we retired about $2 billion of debt, reducing the debt ratio to about 7.5% at quarter end. Third-quarter share repurchases totaled $2 billion, reflecting an accelerated buyback pace. As we projected in last quarter's conference call, we completed the December 2006 buyback program during the third quarter. In September we announced and initiated a new repurchase program of up to $15 billion over a period of up to three years.   

Jim will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Jim?   

JIM ALEVERAS, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, CHEVRON: Thanks, Steve. My remarks compare third-quarter results to those of the second quarter 2007. As a reminder, our earnings press release compared third-quarter 2007 with the same quarter a year ago.   

Turning to slide four, third-quarter net income was $1.7 billion lower than the record level of the second quarter. Lower downstream margins were the most significant component of the change. Upstream realizations increased, but the benefit was partly offset by lower international liftings due to the timing of cargos. Additionally the second quarter included the $680 million gain on the sale of  Chevron's investment in Dynergy, while the third quarter reflects a smaller $265 million gain on the sale of the company's Benelux fuels marketing assets.   

Separate from these major asset sales, there was a further $300 million adverse effect between the sequential quarters due to net non-recurring charges. The most significant factor was the difference in tax items contributing to a $230 million variance between quarters.   

Additional non-recurring items, along with other factors in the aggregate, were responsible for a negative variance of about $130 million as shown on this slide.   

Except for large discrete items, it has not been our practice to identify smaller non-recurring charges and credits. We did so this quarter because of the large swing in these smaller items between the second and third quarters.   

Just to recap, the third quarter included $415 million less in gains on major asset sales and $300 million more in smaller non-recurring net charges than did the second quarter. This amounts to an adverse swing of more than $700 million between sequential quarters or more than $0.33 per share.   

Turning to slide five. Slide five summarizes the results of our US upstream earnings, which fell by about $90 million between quarters. Higher realizations benefited earnings by about $135 million between quarters. Higher liquids prices contributed $250 million to earnings, but lower natural gas realizations had a $115 million offsetting impact.  Chevron's domestic crude oil realizations were up about $9.80 per barrel between quarters, around $0.50 per barrel less than the increase in average WTI spot prices. This partly reflects Gulf of Mexico production that is priced on a lag basis. This is a benefit when prices are falling but a headwind when prices are rising.   

Our natural gas realizations fell by a little over $1.10 per thousand cubic feet, which is in line with the average changes in bid week pricing at Henry Hub in California and in the Rockies.   

Our volumes were slightly lower due to storm-related shutdowns in the Gulf, maintenance work and natural field declines. These were partly offset by one more producing day in the third quarter.   

Asset retirement obligations were higher by $60 million, mainly due to an adjustment to the abandonment provision for offshore California properties that were previously sold.   

The "Other" bar on this slide reflects higher exploration expense, asset impairments and the absence of gains on some small operations we sold in the second quarter.   

Turning to slide six, this slide compares upstream international earnings, which fell about $120 million between the second and third quarters. Stronger liquids realizations benefited earnings by almost all of the $285 million impact shown on this slide. Natural gas effects, while positive, were essentially negligible. Liquids realizations improved by about $5.80 per barrel, in line with the rise in spot Brent prices. Lower liftings spread across multiple countries reflected the timing of cargos and reduced earnings by $240 million. We were in a net underlifted position in the third quarter, which brings the year 2007 to a balanced liftings position.   

Tax adjustments reduced earnings by about $80 million between periods. The variance in the "Other"0 bar includes asset impairment charges.   

Turning to slide seven. Slide seven summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes produced from oilsands in Canada. Daily volumes were down by 39,000 barrels between quarters. Maintenance-related shutdowns in the UK North Sea were the largest factor in this change. George Kirkland will discuss production volumes in more detail in a moment.   

Turning to slide eight, our US downstream results in the third quarter fell nearly $900 million from the prior quarter. Margins were down $680 million. Both refining and marketing margins fell, but the decline was particularly large for West Coast refining margins. Breaking out the $680 million, over 90% of that amount was refining margins, and over two-thirds of that amount in turn was related to the West Coast. Crude prices rose more rapidly than product prices during a period when product inventories were ample. West Coast margins also include an unfavorable variance in final pricing adjustments for long-haul crude. Lower refining volumes reduced third-quarter earnings by $90 million, primarily due to a fire at our Pascagoula, Mississippi refinery in mid-August, as well as other planned maintenance there.   

The unfavorable variance in the "Other" bar on this chart includes employee termination benefits and provisions for litigation. Both the second quarter and third quarter included environmental remediation charges in this segment.   

Turning to slide nine, International Downstream earnings of $487 million were $30 million lower than the second quarter. Realized downstream margins dropped by about $275 million, in line with the change in indicator margins. Asian refining margins indicators fell by one-third, and indicator margins were sharply lower in Europe as well. As was the case in the US, the price of crude rose more rapidly than the price of refined products during the quarter. These lower margins fully offset the gain on the sale of our fuels marketing business in the Benelux countries. The "Other" bar on this slide includes asset impairment charges, lower Shipping earnings and employee termination benefits.   

Looking at slide 10, this slide shows that chemical operations earnings in the quarter were $103 million, essentially unchanged from the second quarter. Results for olefins improved due to higher ethylene margins and reduced utility costs. Aromatics benefited from improved styrene earnings, reflecting higher margins and increased volumes. Aromatics also benefited from the absence of an asset write-down we mentioned in the second quarter. The "Other" bar includes an environmental reserve provision in the third quarter.   

Slide 11 covers all other. Second-quarter results included the $680 million gain on the sale of our interest in Dynergy, which was partly offset by $160 million of charges related to the early redemption of Texaco Capital Bonds.   

Similar to the second quarter, this segment includes about $70 million of environmental remediation expenses for legacy Texaco and Unocal sites that have been closed or sold. Third-quarter net charges for this segment fell at the high-end of our standard guidance range of 160 to $200 million as we advised in our interim update.   

That completes the brief analysis of the quarter. Back over to you, Steve.   

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Jim. We wanted to us a portion of today's teleconference to give George Kirkland and Mike Wirth an opportunity to update you on our Upstream and Downstream business developments respectively. We will start with George, he'll turn things over to Mike, and then we will open it up for your questions. George?   

GEORGE KIRKLAND, EVP, UPSTREAM AND GAS, CHEVRON: Thank you, Steve. I will start on slide 13. Before I provide you with an update of our Major Capital Projects, I would like to review our 2007 production results.   

This slide compares our net OEG production through the first nine months of 2007 versus the first nine months of last year. Although we are down 50,000 barrels a day this year, we can point out 90,000 barrels of losses in 2007 that are attributable to our contractual change in OPEC curtailments in Venezuela.   

Our production efforts this year have been focused on managing our base business declines and capturing gains for Major Capital Projects that have recently come online. The low base business decline is a positive indicator of our base business efforts. However, there are many moving parts in the base business. Workovers, development wells, reliability and so on, and it is too early to say that our typical 4% to 5% base decline rate has changed.   

Now I will update you on some of our key projects. Please turn to slide 14. Let's start in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater with our Tahiti project where we have a 58% net working interest. As a reminder, Tahiti is designed to have a production capacity of 125,000 barrels of oil per day and 70 million cubic feet of gas per day.   

We have continued to progress this project by completing installation of export pipelines, completing five of the six development wells and installing a significant portion of the subsea production system and flowlines. The spar hull is complete, and the topsides are near completion. The hull and topsides will be ready for offshore installation once replacement mooring shackles and components are delivered, and the rescheduling of the installation is finalized.   

A metallurgical problem with the original shackles was identified in June, and installation activities were deferred in order to ensure that the facilities would be put into a safe and reliable operation.   

Installation of the truss spar is now scheduled to begin in the first quarter of 2008. The topside installation, the mating with the spar, is targeted for the third quarter of 2008. First production is now expected by the third quarter of 2009, approximately 12 months later than originally planned due to the shackle replacement and the installation rescheduling.   

Now let's turn to slide 15. We also continue to progress our Blind Faith project located in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. In July we purchased an additional 12.5% working interest in this project, bringing our total interest up to a 75% share. The topsides have been lifted onto the hull, and all three development wells have been drilled. Positive results from the development drilling supports the future drilling of a fourth well by 2009. Offshore installation and well completions are scheduled to commence in November of this year with first production expected by the second quarter of 2008. Blind Faith has a production capacity of 45,000 barrels of oil per day and 45 million cubic feet of gas per day.   

Now onto slide 16 where I will update the status of the Agbami Deepwater Nigeria project. Its Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading vessel has left the fabrication yard in South Korea and is being towed to the offshore Nigeria location. This FPSO is the largest of its type in the world and will be moored and ready for hookup in the first quarter of 2008. It has a processing capacity of 250,000 barrels of oil per day and a storage capacity of 2.1 million barrels of oil.   

We have already drilled 11 producers and seven injectors. We have two rigs working on the completions of these wells. We are on track for first oil by the third quarter of 2008. We expect to be at full capacity within one year of startup. As a reminder,  Chevron has a 68% interest in this project.   

Now turning to slide 17, I will cover the Tengiz, SGI, SGP project. We anticipate that Sour Gas Injection and first oil production will begin in the fourth quarter of 2007. As a reminder,  Chevron has a 50% working interest in TCO, and the expansion startup, which we call Staged Oil, will enable us to increase production by about 90,000 barrels a day gross. The Second Generation Plant, which is pictured here, should be fully operational by the second half of 2008. This will add another 160,000 barrels of production per day.   

The labor disruption of 2006 extended the construction period, but we have made great strides in keeping this project moving forward. The combined SGI/SGP project has been one of the most complex and challenging multibillion dollar projects that  Chevron has ever led, and we are glad to see this project nearing its completion and startup. In the interim period between project startup and the Caspian pipeline expansion, alternative rail export routes ensure we can export the full plant output.   

Now let's turn to slide 18. Production growth in the near-term is all about the startup and ramp-up of these highlighted Major Capital Projects.   

Before I finished this morning, I wanted to cover other key milestones that occurred during the third quarter. The first two bullets further illustrate that our large queue of opportunities are moving forward. Gorgon has passed a couple of very important milestones recently. We received environmental approval from the Western Australia Minister for the Environment in September and the Federal Minister for the Environment in October. Our engineering efforts are focusing on the permit conditions, modularization opportunities and execution planning.   

In Indonesia we started up the Darajat III geothermal project in July. This facility adds 110 megawatts to West Java power grid. The Darajat facility now has a total capacity of 260 megawatts.   

The next two items are examples of how we replenish our development queue. In August we announced the Malange oil discovery in Block 14 deepwater offshore Angola. This well encountered more than 200 net feet of oilsands. The well was tested at a rate of over 7500 barrels of oil per day of high-quality crude. Future drilling is planned to assess potential reserves and assist in the development design.   

In July we reported the successful production test of the Rosebank appraisal well, located some 100 miles Northwest of the Shetland Islands. This well in approximately 3700 feet of water flow tested 37 degree API light oil at restricted rates of 6000 barrels of oil per day. The appraisal and evaluation program should be completed by November of this year and will allow us to determine the future work program and development of this discovery.   

We also recently announced our extension of the production period for Thailand Blocks 10 through 13. By securing this production extension, we will now be able to move major investments forward on the Platong II project. Platong II is the planned expansion of existing Platong assets, which are currently producing 250 million cubic feet a day and 40,000 barrels a day of hydrocarbon liquids. Platong II will add gas processing capacity and enable our oil and gas projects to be accelerated.   

Now I will turn it over to Mike.   

MIKE WIRTH, EVP, GLOBAL DOWNSTREAM, CHEVRON: Thanks, George. Moving to slide 19, I would now like to update you on key downstream initiatives beginning with operational excellence.   

Improved reliability continues to be our top priority. We have resolved many high-risk conditions which have caused unplanned downtime. Despite these improvements, we experienced significant crude unit fires this year at Richmond and Pascagoula. These incidents remind us that we still have work to do and have further strengthened our resolve to improve reliability through enhance capabilities, processes and equipment. While the fire at Pascagoula was unfortunate, our incident response was swift and effective, limiting the impact and preventing any injuries. We expect to complete repairs during the first quarter 2008. The demolition phase is proceeding safely. Critical equipment orders have been placed, and delivery is scheduled. And we're taking steps to optimize conversion unit utilization while the crude unit is off-line.   

As the left chart shows, lost utilization from unplanned downtime this year has been slightly greater than in 2006 due to the two fires. However, we continue to drive down the number of unplanned outages as shown on the right. Incidents per quarter at our largest operated refineries have fallen more than 50% since 2005. Since the first-quarter turnaround, crude unit utilization at Richmond has been consistently strong, averaging 101%. Our UK refinery has also operated very well the entire year, also averaging 101% crude utilization. And conversion unit utilization at these facilities has also been very strong.   

Turning to capital projects on slide 20, we are progressing well in terms of achieving the major milestones we committed to earlier this year. During the quarter our South Korean joint venture refinery completed construction of its resid upgrade project ahead of schedule and on budget. We expect the upgrade to lower crude costs by about $1.00 per barrel, increase light product yield by 33,000 barrels per day and add 15,000 barrels per day of new lubricant base oil production.   

A new vacuum column, among the largest in the world, and a new hydrocracker lubricants base oil plant and other conversion units have begun commercial operations.   

On the West Coast, we're currently modifying our El Segundo Coker during a planned turnaround to enable a shift to heavier and higher sulfur crudes and to improve Coker reliability. We expect to meet our product supply commitments during the turnaround and to have the heavy crude enhancements online by year-end.   

We completed the Caspian Blend integration project at our UK refinery ahead of schedule and on budget. We now have the ability to feed Caspian blend crude at rates up to 40% of total feed. This will provide an economic outlet for growing equity production.   

Finally, we announced sanctioning of the Continuous Catalytic Reforming Project at Pascagoula. The new CCR will improve utilization and optimize product yields. Gasoline production at the refinery is expected to increase about 10% with completion anticipated by mid-2010.   

In summary, we are ahead of schedule or on track to complete the significant capital projects we committed to bringing online this year.   

Moving to slide 21, we're also making significant progress in high-grading our portfolio. As you can see from the math, we have made a number of divestments in the past two years on top of ongoing efforts to reduce the capital intensity of our branded retail network.   

As you recall, back in March we announced our intent to pursue divestments in Europe and Latin America. We have followed through and succeeded in monetizing assets and businesses we no longer considered strategic.   

In March we sold our 31% interest in the Nerefco refinery in the Netherlands and other assets there, generating $1.1 billion in after-tax proceeds. During the third quarter, we closed the sale of our fuels marketing business in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg for about $500 million in proceeds, excluding a final adjustment expected by year-end.   

We also reached agreements to sell our proprietary consumer and commercial credit card businesses. We believe these arrangements will enhance the payment products we offer our customers while enabling us to maintain the strong brand loyalty associated with our cards.   

More portfolio improvement opportunities are being evaluated, and we'll share progress on these in the future. We are working to create a more focused footprint for our marketing businesses. Fewer markets but stronger positions in those markets will help us reduce costs and further improve returns on invested capital.   

And now I will turn it back over to Steve.   

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Mike. That concludes our prepared remarks. We will now take your questions; one question per caller, please. Matt, please open the lines for questions.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Dan Barcelo,  Bank of America.

DAN BARCELO, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Thank you for the update, particularly on the projects. Quite useful. I wondered if you could expand a little bit on Gorgon. Having received a lot of the environmental approvals, could you talk a little bit about maybe the costs you're looking at now? I know it maybe premature as you're still trying to cost and phase that, but any thoughts about how you would phase the development and particularly on the costs for Gorgon?   

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Let me start off, I think you have highlighted a lot of the points that we have still got to address. In my comments I mentioned that we need to go back and look at the permit conditions. We have a significant number of permit conditions that we have got to have mitigations fully vetted and understood how we would handle where we don't get into a cost issue during the construction stage. So we are presently back looking at those, all those conditions.   

And I would add one other area that we are really spending a lot of time on is in modularization. Remember we are building this on Barrow Island. We have got the ability to do a lot of modules and bring them in to minimize the actual work on the island. And that in many ways helps us because of the situation at the island. The constraints we have about moving equipment in there, we need to have a really good plan, and modularization will really help us there.   

So those are the elements that we're really focusing on at this point in time. I expect I will be able to talk quite a bit more about schedule and where we are at our March analyst meeting. At that point in time, I will try to really give a lot more details around the plan forward on Gorgon.   

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate,  Citigroup.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Steve, the one-off items this quarter, I guess I am thinking specifically about refining and marketing. You have given us some breakdown on the larger items, environmental remediation and so on. But it seems that there were quite a number of other fairly significant items, particularly on the US downstream. Could you go into a little bit more detail if you can just to quantify that.   

STEVE CROWE: Sure. I will ask Jim to handle that. We anticipated that might be a question since we kind of foreshadowed on our October 9th interim update that there would be a fair number of nonrecurring items that affected the results this quarter. So, Jim?   

JIM ALEVERAS: Your question was with respect to the US downstream?   

DOUG LEGGATE: Well, clearly across the businesses would be useful, but that was the one specifically where we saw a bit of a gap.   

JIM ALEVERAS: Well, in the US downstream, again the effects were primarily margin related. If we look at the nonrecurring charges between the second and third quarter, there was not a significant difference in that particular segment in the US downstream segment.   

DOUG LEGGATE: Jim, the absolute number this quarter is what I'm trying to get. The absolute --   

JIM ALEVERAS: The absolute number in the third quarter was about $50 million negative.   

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. And do you have the three other divisions?   

JIM ALEVERAS: In terms of our segments?   

DOUG LEGGATE: Yes.   

JIM ALEVERAS: For the third quarter, the US upstream, the non-recurring charges in aggregate were about $100 million negative. For the international Upstream, the net non-recurring charges were about $250 million negative.   

As I mentioned, for US downstream it was about $50 million negative. For the international downstream, because of the gain on the Benelux assets, the change or the impact was a favorable 165. I should point out that is $100 million less than the gain on the Benelux assets, so there was the gain on the Benelux assets of plus 265, and there were net non-recurring charges of negative 100.   

In the chemicals segment, the impact was negative $40 million. And in the all other segment, the impact was about $100 million for a total of $400 million that we quoted in our earnings press release.   

DOUG LEGGATE: The 121 employee termination and litigation, you are not terming that a one-off item in the US?   

STEVE CROWE: Yes, we are, Doug. And it is not a large item, but the severances that were recognized in the third-quarter results were both in the United States as well as international.   

Thanks very much for your questions. May we have the next question, please.   

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey,  Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I want to ask a question about India. But if I could just make a, further to Doug's point, an observation. Why is it that -- I will tell you what, I will not phrase it as a question. You have in the earnings supplement a table of special items and other adjustments by quarter with nothing in it. But you are identifying $400 million of specials. Again, I don't want to use up my question on that, but I do find it slightly odd that there is zero reported within that table. I was kind of wondering why that is.   

STEVE CROWE: Well, we won't count that as a question, so we will -- but in the post Regulation FD world we live in, which goes back a few years now, about making pro forma adjustments to GAAP earnings, these items were properly recognized in the third quarter. They are event-driven as in the case of sales or the recognition of impairments or severances and the like. And we don't view them as -- these happen for all large companies in varying degrees from period to period. We just felt that there was enough of them that occurred in the quarter that we should highlight it for the analyst community in the interim update and then in the press release. It is really then left up to the individual analyst to determine whether or not those should be taken out in order to get more of a clean earnings from your perspective. So it is only that, Paul. (multiple speakers).   

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, let's move on. In terms of India, could you just update us please that you have not mentioned it here amongst your major initiative charts, could you talk a little bit about the status of the expansion that you have got going on there, firstly? Secondly, the timing and potential fee to expand your position. And finally, a progress update on how you are getting on with the upstream element of that whole move that you made there?   

STEVE CROWE: Okay. Thank you, Paul. I think I will ask Mike to talk a little bit about the progress that we're seeing on the downstream side.   

MIKE WIRTH: Okay, Paul. I think there were three parts. I will take the first two, and I will hand the upstream one off to George.   

The refinery construction is progressing very well. Over 97% of the engineering work is done, and the construction is well underway. I think the announced start date for that refinery is 2008, and I fully expect that startup to occur next year.   

Relative to our investment position, as you know, we have a 5% stake and, subject to a number of other agreements being negotiated, the opportunity to increase that to 29%. We have not concluded those other agreements, and no decisions have been made as to the ultimate decision relative to our equity share in that refinery.   

I will ask George to comment on the upstream.   

PAUL SANKEY: Could I just ask you the timing next year of the -- you mentioned '08, obviously for the refinery, that is presumably a first-half event. Secondly, the timing, if you could just remind us on the increase on the state, when we will get an answer on that would also be interesting. Sorry to interrupt. Thank you.   

MIKE WIRTH: Yes, I think the announced start date for the refinery is actually second-half '08, and the timing for our final decision on our investment position is subsequent to the refinery startup.   

GEORGE KIRKLAND: On the upstream issue, I would say we still have interest in the KG Basin. But, Paul, there has really not been much progress in really developing that opportunity. So really there is nothing really to report at this point in time.   

PAUL SANKEY: Is there any initiative that there might be something, George, that you could talk about, or are we kind of more (inaudible)?   

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Really nothing to talk about at this point in time. Just it is not ready, and there is a lot of other people besides us that are interested in that. So I really don't have anything to report.   

OPERATOR: Mark Flannery,  Credit Suisse.

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: My question is for George, and it concerns the decline rate. You said that it is too early to say whether or not the base decline of 4% to 5% is to be changed. But could you just expand a little on that and tell us what kind of things specifically you're doing presumably to get that rate down obviously? And when do you think it would be appropriate to talk about a new decline rate in the upstream?   

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I will answer the last part of that question first. I want some run time on to see exactly how we're influencing it. Specifically we have got I think great processes where we in effect do base business audits around the world, and we audit from the reservoir through all of the facilities. We look at reliability. We look at reservoir performance. We look at the interaction between the surface facilities and the subsurfaces facilities to make sure we do not have any bottlenecks.   

We have been on that process for now about three years. It continues to turn up opportunities for us to optimize our production around the world. We are seeing some influence. This first nine months of this year we have had some great successes in South Texas and with some development wells, which we use good seismic technology there and had some good results there. We have got some other places where we have focused on our water floods, and we have seen some decline rates shallow out.   

We have got a lot of history of multiple years that this 4% to 5% decline rate is what we have been typically seeing. So I'm encouraged by the first nine months, but I want a lot more run time. And I am confident that the processes that we have put in place is going to help us for the long period improve our recovery and reduce or decline rates in the greatest sense. But I think it is a little bit too early, and that is why I made those comments that way.   

MARK FLANNERY: And, George, would you characterize this as mostly ERO type stuff? Are you spending more money on enhanced oil recovery, or is it a sort of mix of things?   

GEORGE KIRKLAND: It is a mix of things. It is not one focus. We have four to five areas that we really focus on, and in some places we get it out of just system reliability, raising the reliability, the runtimes. Some places it is hey, we find a facility that we can push more barrels through, and we see we have got reservoir capability to match to it and not have to spend a lot of monies on facilities. So we're doing all those type things like once again from the reservoir through the sales point to try to optimize the system in all our business units around the world.   

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.   

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK: I have a question for Mike Wirth if I could, please. Relating to Pascagoula, one specific part of it and one more general. Mike, could you give us an idea as to the size of the crude unit that is down? That is the specific one.   

More generally, I guess I was a little surprised to see the sanctioning of the CCR project. I am assuming that in having done so, the expansion, distillation expansion at Pascagoula which had been under evaluation is now no longer on the table. Could you comment on the validity of that observation?   

MIKE WIRTH: Yes, on the crude unit, it is about 160,000 barrels per day, and on the CCR, that is an independent project. We have all fixed bed reformers there that need to have the catalyst regenerated. So we've got to pull the reformers off-line for catalyst regeneration, and it significantly impacts our ability to get the utilization at the facility up. So this is a reliability project that has a very strong economic payout. And, frankly, there are not many of these fixed bed reformers still in operation in the industry. So it is really upgrading the technology to the current state-of-the-art.   

The evaluation of other alternatives for Pascagoula continues. I think we have indicated that we would reach a final decision on that next year. Certainly you are seeing project economics challenged in the refining sector on the Gulf Coast, as well as the rest of the world by the cost environment, by the questions about the margin environment, uncertainty about biofuels penetration and future demand, etc. So we are factoring all those into our evaluation of alternatives, and we will have more to say about that next year as that work is complete.   

MARK GILMAN: Mike, if I could just follow-up on that for a second. If you are considering an expansion, I don't know how you go about properly sizing what the replacement reforming capacity ought to be.   

MIKE WIRTH: Well, on the reforming it fits into a refinery that is configured with a number of other facilities that has streams that create feed for the reformer. So what we're doing is taking existing intermediate streams, and we are installing facilities that essentially you can look at as a debottleneck or a capacity creep kind of a project that enables us to more fully utilize the streams available within the refinery and increase the utilization.   

OPERATOR: Neil McMahon, Sanford Bernstein.   

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Just maybe this is a quick one you do not have many answers for, but most of the impact on the refining in the US, the negative impact, as you said, was on the West Coast. I just wanted to go into maybe walking through some reasons for that, and did you have hedges in places there that could have caused some of those losses?   

STEVE CROWE: Sure. As Jim showed earlier, when you compare the third quarter to the second quarter, our US earnings were down nearly $900 million. More than two-thirds of that decline was due to industry margins. Really the balance for the US was due to lower volumes, and that is primarily Pascagoula.   

So I think the quarter to quarter comparison is pretty straightforward on those two pieces. We have some pricing effects on our crude oil into the refining system that we see most acutely at times of rapid change in crude prices. And our foreign crude that we purchased that is long-haul crude gets provisionally priced while it is on the water. So we will see the effect of those increases before we actually capture the margin for running that crude. So we do have some paper effects that you see in an environment like this that are exacerbated by the amount of long-haul crude that we run and the way that we price crude into our system.   

NEIL MCMAHON: So you do not really do hedge accounting then on those long-haul crude or in the West Coast?   

STEVE CROWE: We mark the pricing through current period pricing, and we convert -- we run our refineries to capture the margin of the day. So we convert the pricing to one month pricing. And so what that does result in is some open paper that is a price conversion of the feedstock to the run month.   

STEVE CROWE: Let me just add on that point, again, as Mike said, those are part of the contractual provisions. They are not hedging per se. So when a cargo is lifted, it has a contractual term as to when it will be priced so many days after lifting. And in a rising market as we have seen here in the third quarter, that works adversely against us.   

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng,  Lehman Brothers.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: This is for Mike. If I look at the third-quarter market conditions, South Coast 3 to 1 crack spread is roughly about in the 11 to $12 per barrel, and the California crack spread is probably in the 13, $14. While that they declined sharply from the second quarter, but they are really not that bad from a historical standpoint, a spending standpoint. And if you look at your earnings, I mean adjusting for the $50 million in environmental remediation charge and also the $90 million loss related to Pascagoula, you earned $30 million. Is there a structural problem with your assets there that your hardware just needs to be revised sharply in order for them to be more sustainable in a more normal pricing environment?   

MIKE WIRTH: No, I do not think there is a structural problem in the market or in the refinery. I think the indicator margins did decline more sharply on the West Coast than on the Gulf Coast, and with a skew to our downstream where we have more than half of our US refining capacity on the West Coast, that sharper decline will effect us to a greater degree.   

PAUL CHENG: No, Mike, I'm talking about on an absolute level that the crack you are still talking about in the 10 to $15, which is not really that bad.   

MIKE WIRTH: Let me take another shot at building on the question that Neil was asking. We have these nonratable pricing effects related to the change in crude prices, which are most significant because of the amount of long-haul crude that we bring into the West Coast. And so if you look at Q3 '07 versus 3Q '06, you would see that the margin declines are not especially severe. And the absolute level of margins, as you say, are not as extreme as the earnings delta might indicate. But if you look at Q3 '06, we saw crude prices drop by about $11 per barrel over the quarter.   

In Q3 '07 we saw crude prices increase by $11 per barrel in the quarter. And so those nonratable pricing effects have significant knock on accounting effects that get unwound subsequently as we actually run the crude. But in the quarter, they create pronounced effects on our West Coast downstream performance.   

PAUL CHENG: Can you quantify for us?   

MIKE WIRTH: I do not have the numbers in front of me to quantify that.   

STEVE CROWE: You know, Paul, you're talking on average maybe 15 million barrels of long-haul crude on the water, and as Mike said, in the earlier period a year ago, we saw crude prices from beginning to end of the quarter drop by $11 a barrel, and just the reverse effect that occurred here in the third quarter, that is going to be a material impact on the comparison between adjacent years on a variance. And it is one of the reasons why sometimes the indicative margin does not become realized for our Company. Thanks for your question.   

OPERATOR: John Herrlin,  Merrill Lynch.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: With Thailand you said that you extended the contract. Are the terms still similar or are they higher for the country?   

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Do we have similar terms? It is still the Thailand terms. We do have some issues related to how we extended it, but overall the terms are basically the same.   

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. If I can then ask another quick one, you were pretty active at the last central Gulf sale. Could you give us a sense on how many of the leases were Miocene versus say Paleocene?   

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I think my memory of the major targeted prospects I believe it was 9 or 11 of the total that we really captured major new prospects. All of them but one was the lower tertiary.   

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.   

MARK GILMAN: Yes, I have got one for George. George, if you could, on Block 14 in Angola, could you tell me whether or not there are separate PSCs for each of the fields and the extent to which there is rate of return thresholds built into those production sharing contracts, pursuant to which profit barrels and profit percentages would step down once a threshold is reached?   

GEORGE KIRKLAND: I'm going to limit my comments a little bit. I will tell you we have different development areas around each field. Our development areas have typically in Block 14 been larger than what we had seen in the past, and in some cases they have been more or less brought together to allow cost recovery to be moved from one development to the other. So we have had larger development areas than in the past. I'm not going to speak about the contractual pieces beyond that.   

STEVE CROWE: We will take one more question, and then we will wrap it up.   

OPERATOR: Michael LaMotte,  JPMorgan.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: The question related to upstream cost pressures. As your spending is shifting more towards completion and production, are you seeing any changes in the rate of change of costs there? I guess I would think that completion inflation is probably not as high as drilling in rigs, offshore rigs in particular.   

GEORGE KIRKLAND: Let me take a shot at this one in a couple of ways. First off, remember we are operating in 25 or 30 countries around the world. We have got a whole portfolio of projects that are in anything from the early phase engineering to just about to start up, and actually a lot of them have started up. The ones that are late in phase, we know contractual costs very, very well. Those projects are not seeing and have not seen the same movement in costs as projects in the early phases.   

I would tell you whether a project is an onshore project in North America or it is an onshore project or a deepwater project, all of those are in effect change the outcome on the cost increases.   

I will give you a couple of examples of what we have seen and maybe that will help you get a little bit of context. We had a project in Angola we brought online, a deepwater project in Angola that we brought online a little over a year ago. We are doing a very similar project that is in the fabrication stage at this point. So we understand contractually what the cost is going to be for drilling, for the building of all the facilities and the installation. So we have got the contracts really nailed down. There is a five to seven-year difference in the life cycle of the two projects. When you compare Project A to Project B, we see a almost 100% increase in the cost of doing the similar work.   

So that is very typical in the deepwater where you have seen rig rates go up. Deepwater rig rates have gone up two to three times over a five-year period. Other areas we are not seeing the same, and once again every project we look at individually because you've got a different mix of contracts that are either in place and we have some period at a different rate than what we see in the future.   

So we look at everything on a specific project by project basis. I would tell you one of the best areas to look at maybe to give you a view of what the cost in the general industry, what has happened there in the last probably five to seven years, is to look at the CERA, the  Cambridge Energy Research report that was published I believe in the last year. What it basically shows is over the period from early 2000 to late '06, about 80 to 90% increase in their index. So they have shown a significant move in that index, and I think it is very indicative of the general industry.   

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Is there anything in the component cost that is leading you to think about redirecting capital on the margin? Anything inflationary in the component side that would lead you to rethink project or redirect capital to better return?   

GEORGE KIRKLAND: We do that. I would tell you the one that has probably been impacted the most is shelf Gulf of Mexico where we made some decisions on changing how much capital we were spending on some of our delineation and development wells there. Rig rates had moved way, way up very quickly, and you look at the pricing side of Henry Hub gas and you see the big gas price has not moved -- as a matter-of-fact, gas has moved down and oil has moved up. So we would have a bias there at this point in time to be oilier if we have a choice, and we have got some projects because of the cost run-up on the services, and the down turn on the gas price that they are not really projects that are viable. So they are put back on the shelf.   

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, George, and Mike, thank you for your questions. In closing, let me say that we appreciate everyone's participation on today's call, and I especially want to thank each of the analysts on behalf of all the participants for their questions during this morning's session. Matt, back to you.   

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's third-quarter 2007 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect. Good day.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020071115e3b2000br
  


 HD
 Q4  2006  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
6,660 words
   PD
2 February 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Mat and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter 2006 earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to the Chairman and CEO of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Dave O'Reilly. Please go ahead, sir.  

DAVE O'REILLY, CHAIRMAN, CEO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Good morning, and welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter earnings conference call. Today I am joined by Steve Crowe, our Chief Financial Officer, and Irene Melitas, Manager of Investor Relations.  

   TD
Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the fourth quarter of 2006. I will refer to the slides that are available on the Web.  

Before we get started, please be reminded that today's presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. I ask that you review the Safe Harbor statement on slide 2.  

I will begin with slide 3, which provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company ended the year with quarterly earnings of $3.8 billion, or $1.74 per diluted share. Full year results of $17.1 billion mark the third consecutive year of record earnings for Chevron.  

Our fourth quarter earnings were 9% lower compared to the fourth quarter 2005, reflecting a sharp decline in the price of natural gas in the U.S., which more than offset the benefits from improved operating performance.  

Fourth quarter results declined by about 25% versus the third quarter of 2006, which Steve will discuss shortly. Return on capital employed for the year was a strong 23%. The debt ratio was 13% at year-end, with net debt a negative $1.6 billion.  

Stock buybacks were $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter, and $5 billion for the year. The $5 billion buyback program initiated in late 2005 concluded within 12 months. In December we announced that the Board of Directors had authorized another similarly sized follow-up repurchase program of up to $5 billion over three years. Our total shareholder return for the year was nearly 34%.  

Turning to slide 4. Our total capital spending for 2006 was $16.6 billion. Upstream spending accounted for $12.8 billion, or 77% of the total. Our cash C&E, which excludes our equity share of affiliate capital outlays, totaled $14.7 billion for the year.  

Our announced capital program for 2007 of $19.6 billion represents an increase of $3 billion over 2006. About $2 billion of the increase is earmarked for offstream activities. More than two-thirds of that increase is attributable to the more capital intensive phase of some of our long-term growth projects. And rising costs for materials and services account for the balance of the increase.  

Steve will now take us through the quarterly comparison. Steve?  

STEVE CROWE, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Dave. My remarks compare fourth quarter results to those of the third quarter. As a reminder, our earnings release compared fourth quarter 2006 to the same quarter a year ago.  

Turning to slide 5. Fourth quarter net income was about $1.2 billion lower than our quarterly record set in the third quarter. Starting with the left side of this chart, significantly lower oil and gas prices adversely affected upstream results worldwide. Weaker refining and marketing margins, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, reduced earnings nearly $500 million. Fourth quarter earnings benefited from higher international upstream liftings. The variance in the residual other bar is the net of everything else.  

Slide 6 summarizes the results of our U.S. upstream earnings, which declined about $380 million between quarters. Lower realizations, primarily for Liquids, reduced earnings by $300 million. The $11 per barrel decrease in crude realizations was generally higher than the change in industry benchmark prices, and accounted for $295 million of the variance between quarters.  

While the average quarterly price for WTI declined by $10.58 per barrel between quarters, the Gulf of Mexico benchmark trade month price, which is on a lagged basis, declined more steeply.  

The volume effect of higher planned project activity, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico, reduced earnings by $10 million. Other, mostly reflects higher exploration expense.  

Turning to slide 7. International upstream earnings were about $210 million lower than the third quarter's. Lower oil and gas prices reduced profits by about $575 million. Unit realizations on Liquids declined by $10.13 per barrel, in line with the drop in spot Brent prices.  

Higher liftings during the quarter, particularly in Kazakhstan, Venezuela, Canada, Indonesia and the UK, resulted in a positive earnings variance of $185 million.  

Tax-related items benefited earnings by $200 million between quarters. This reflects the absence of the third quarter's onetime catch-up effects for the UK tax increase on North Sea oil and gas producers. The variance in other reflects higher exploration and operating expenses, partially offset by a favorable swing in foreign exchange and other items.  

Slide 10 summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes produced from oil sands in Canada. Daily volumes were down 45,000 barrels between quarters.  

During the fourth quarter U.S. production declined 9,000 barrels per day as the impact of higher planned project activity and normal field declines exceeded the volume benefits from continued storm-related restoration efforts in the Gulf of Mexico.  

Outside the U.S. oil and gas production decreased 36,000 barrels per day between quarters. The decrease was driven by the conversion to Empresa Mixta in Venezuela, which took effect in October. This decrease was partially offset by higher production elsewhere, particularly in Kazakhstan, following the completion of an annual turnaround that commenced in the third quarter.  

Looking ahead, worldwide oil equivalent production in 2007 is expected to average around 2.6 million barrels at current price levels. The change relative to full year 2006 volumes is attributable to the full year effect of the Empresa Mixta conversions in Venezuela. The benefit of new project startups and ramp ups are expected to largely offset normal field declines.  

The actual production will depend on many factors, including possible disruptions to operations caused by weather or unrest, the effect of production quotas imposed by OPEC, the effect of price changes on cost recovery volumes under certain production sharing contracts, or any other disruptions to our daily operations.  

Turning to slide 9. U.S. downstream results in the fourth quarter declined by about $490 million, relative to the prior quarter's record earnings. The decrease was driven by weaker refining and marketing margins, and the effect of a 75 day planned turnaround at the Pascagoula refinery, which decreased production of high-value products.  

Lower realized margins reduced results by $420 million relative to the third quarter, particularly in the West. In the West the A&S refining indicator margin improved by $1.19 per barrel between periods. However, as noted in our interim update, we did not benefit to the full extent suggested by the variance, given the mix of crudes run at our West Coast refineries.  

In the East, the Gulf Coast light/heavy differential indicator declined by about $6.50 per barrel. In the West, the Los Angeles dealer tank wagon to spot Mogas indicator, fell sharply by $6.76 per barrel, as the decline in DTW prices outpaced the decline in spot product prices. In the East, the Houston Rack to Spot indicator margin decreased by $2.67 per barrel.  

Lower margins for aviation fuels and asphalt also affected marketing results. Lower volumes reduced earnings by about $20 million. A seasonal decline in the production of asphalt and lower lubricant sales contributed to the decrease. The other variance reflects reduced earnings in pipeline, along with other miscellaneous items.  

Turning to slide 10. International downstream earnings of about $610 million were unchanged from the third quarter's. Realized downstream margins decreased earnings between quarters by about $75 million, led by lower refining and marketing margins in Europe, in line with the fall in indicator margins. The other bar includes a favorable variance in tax-related items.  

Slide 11 shows chemical results were $124 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $168 million in the third quarter. Results for olefins declined on lower ethylene and polyethylene sales volumes and margins. Lower additives earnings were largely due to lower volumes and higher non-manufacturing expenses. And the variance in other includes a fourth quarter asset write-off.  

Slide 12 covers all other. The negative variance in the P&L businesses reflects lower results associated with the Company's investment in Dynegy and lower seasonal results from our power operations. The other bar reflects the aggregation of taxes booked at the corporate level, along with other miscellaneous items.  

Our standard guidance for this segment calls for net quarterly charges in the range of $160 million to $200 million, excluding Dynegy. Actual fourth quarter net charges were at the lower end of that guidance.  

That concludes our brief analysis for the quarter. Back over to you, Dave.  

DAVE O'REILLY: Thanks Steve. Turning to slide 13. Let me recap our strategic progress in recent months, and then I will take your questions. I will begin with the upstream. In Angola we announced the production of first crude oil from the Landana North reservoir in the 31% owned and operated Tombua-Landana development, our third deepwater development in Angola. This project is expected to reach maximum production levels of about 100,000 barrels per day in 2009.  

Just last week we announced a significant oil discovery at the 31% owned and operated Lucapa-1 well in deepwater Block 14. Appraisal drilling and additional geologic and engineering studies will follow to assess the potential reserves.  

We discovered natural gas at the 67% owned Clio exploration well offshore Northwestern Australia, further building on our leading natural gas resource position there.  

In downstream we announced the completion of the fluid catalytic cracker expansion project at the Pascagoula refinery in Mississippi. The expansion increases our gasoline manufacturing capacity there by about 10%. We also submitted an environmental permit application for the construction of facilities that would increase gasoline output there by a further 15%.  

Turning to slide 14. Our preliminary estimate of 2006 reserve additions is shown here, and equates to approximately 101% of worldwide equivalent production during the year. This represents an addition of about 950 million oil equivalent barrels, for a total year-end proved reserve of 12.1 billion barrels, a strong organic growth year.  

Approximately 30% of the added reserves were associated with the Athabasca oil sands project in Canada. The crude oil extracted through this bitumen mining operation is not considered to be an oil and gas producing activity by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Excluding the oil sands volumes, the Company's proved reserve additions in 2006 equated to about 70% of oil equivalent production.  

Additional details will be available in the Form 10-K that we will file with the SEC on March 1. And of course we will discuss it in more detail also at our mid-March analyst meeting in New York.  

Turning to slide 15. 2006 was a year of record earnings, the attainment of several significant milestones, the completion of the integration of the former Unocal operations, and proved operating performance, and excellent shareholder returns. And as we enter 2007, we look forward to a year of further accomplishments.  

That concludes our prepared remarks, and we will now take your questions. One question per caller please. We plan to wrap up at or before the top of the hour. So, Matt, would you please open the lines for questions.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). John Herrlin, Merrill Lynch.  

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: You spent $12.8 billion upstream, could you give us a sense of how much was spent on the oil sands?  

DAVE O'REILLY: Very, very little in 2006 because that project was primarily in the engineering phase. We estimate our share of expenditures during this phase of expansion is about $2 billion. And that expenditure will occur over the next three years.  

STEVE CROWE: This is Steve. We expect that in 2007 spending relative to 2006 for the Athabasca expansion will be, our share, on the order of $300 million.  

OPERATOR: Dan Barcelo, Banc of America.  

DAN BARCELO, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: There appear to be a lot of willing buyers of refining assets, especially in the U.S. I don't know if you could just give us a quick update on your plans for your downstream in Europe and Latin America, and also just an update on Asia with particular reference to India.  

DAVE O'REILLY: We like our position in refining in North America. We have a very strong position in three -- particularly in three major refineries, two on the West Coast, El Segundo and Richmond, and Pascagoula, Mississippi.  

In Europe we are marketing our share of the Nerefco refinery in the Netherlands. And that we expect that we will complete a transaction there this year. So that is in the process of being negotiated. We also have plans to exit our marketing operations in the Benelux area. You'll recall that last year we exited the marketing joint venture we participated in in Scandinavia.  

In Latin America we're really not in the refining business, we're in the marketing business, and we're pretty selective about where we participate. Our strongest operations being in the Central America area.  

In Asia, which we like very much for the long term, we are strengthening our position there. We upped our share of ownership in the Singapore refinery a couple of years ago to 50%. And we have taken a 5% interest in a refinery that Reliance is building in India. That is under construction, and on or ahead of schedule. And we have an opportunity to increase that from 5 to 29% once the refinery is complete.  

We also have a major expansion under way in our Korean refinery, our joint venture refinery with GS, Goldstar. That is geared to -- and it is under construction. We will finish at the end of this year. And it is geared to allow the refinery to run heavier sour crudes and increase light product production. We have a lot of activity underway. And I hope that addresses your question Dan. Thank you. Next question.  

OPERATOR: Nicole Decker, Bear Stearns.  

NICOLE DECKER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: I am wondering if you could give us an update on your exploration and your appraisal program in the Gulf of Mexico?  

DAVE O'REILLY: Yes. We will obviously cover this in more detail next month. In fact, Bobby Ryan, our Exploration General Manager, will be there with us and making a presentation in a lot of detail.  

Globally we have another very successful year. We are meeting all of our metrics in terms of reserves resource base added. In the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we have a number of developments underway, which I think you are aware of, Tahiti and Blind Faith, which will augment our position in the Miocene Trend.  

The Wilcox Trend is the area that we have been doing the most interesting work in. And that is Jack and St. Malo. You'll recall we have made a significant discovery in both of those areas on the same trend. We have had a very successful well test at Jack which has been well-documented. And we're going to continue to pursue the appraisal and develop plans to develop those assets.  

We have an active exploration program in both of the trends that I have talked about, and a very strong lease position in both. And you will hear more of the details of that next month.  

Our success rate continues to be very good. And as you saw from our comments earlier, we have continued to have success in Angola, and in West African in general. So our focused exploration program I think is paying off very well.  

STEVE CROWE: You'll hear a good deal more about exploration, because we've had such great success over the last few years. Bobby Ryan will be covering that in some detail at our March meeting in about six weeks.  

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Citigroup.  

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: My question is on OPEC exposure. Obviously there had been a great deal of news on a number of fronts lately. You mentioned cuts are factored into your targets for this year. So I wonder if you could talk a little bit about that, but also about how you see Angola's entry into OPEC potentially impacting your business? What the situation is currently in Venezuela? And finally on the -- there has been some news on the wires that Kuwait may be looking to change things in the neutral zone. I just wonder if you could comment on whether there is any movement there as you see it.  

DAVE O'REILLY: More than one question, but I will do my best. First of all, let me just put it in perspective in broad terms. If you just look at our international oil production overall, our international production, 20 to 25% of that is in countries that are OPEC affiliated roughly. I am just giving you rough numbers to put it in perspective. 75% of that roughly lies outside OPEC.  

So far the OPEC cuts that have been made have had an impact of less than 10,000 barrels a day net to us. But it is very uncertain. Obviously, this could impact us somewhat more over the next year, depending on what happens with total supply and demand. So the impact has been very -- very minimal so far.  

I think -- the fundamentals I think suggest that it is very hard to make a judgment about this until after we get through the second quarter period, which is typically a period of weakness before the demand builds up in the Northern Hemisphere in the summer. We have expressed some reservations about the impact, but so far it has been minimal.  

Angola joining OPEC, which they did effective January 1, doesn't have a near-term impact in our view, because it is clear that it isn't going to impact their production. And they are going to be apparently allowed to phase in for some period of time before they become a full member in terms of participating in OPEC production.  

But, however, I don't view that this will be a significant impact either. All of our projections suggest that within a few years we will need more OPEC production. It doesn't seem to me that this is something that we should be too concerned about. Our investments there are made over the very long-term. We're looking at assets that have lives that go 20 years and 30 years. So taking account of -- I think OPEC would be a minor impact.  

You asked briefly about Kuwait and the neutral zone. Really what we do in the neutral zone is we operate on behalf of the Saudis in the neutral zone in partnership with the Kuwaitis. Our operations there are representing the Saudis.  

We are in the process of renegotiating our concession there with the Saudis, which will expire in a few years' time. That negotiation is underway, and we're optimistic that it will be completed successfully and that we will be there for the long-term.  

That is an area in which we're demonstrating some pretty significant new technology. And steam flooding in Eoscene, which is a very -- which hasn't been demonstrated yet, but after our success in places like the Jack development, I'm confident that we're going to develop success there as well.  

I think that covered all your questions, I hope. Thank you. Next question please.  

OPERATOR: Neil McMahon, Sanford Bernstein.  

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: It is really a question of the U.S. upstream earnings in the fourth quarter. It looks like -- you did mention there was higher depreciation, etc. Plus it seems like you had a bit of a spike maybe a -- and your true up in terms of exploration costs, which looked high.  

Sort of really two things. One, could you go into detail on what caused U.S. earnings, especially on a dollar per barrel basis, to decrease into the fourth quarter?  

And what should we be looking at, given your exploration program, for guidance in terms of exploration expense next year? The same as 2006, or higher as a relationship to higher CapEx being thrown into exploration?  

STEVE CROWE: Let me deal with the capital expenditure portion first. In 2006 our exploration expenditures ran on the order of $2.3 billion, and that was higher than we had originally anticipated coming into the year. But it reflected certainly the heated market for drilling rigs and oilfield services, but also a lot of increased activity, including appraisal drilling, following up on our exploration success that Dave had mentioned.  

So looking at the expenditures at least initially comparing 2007 projections relative to 2006, we think it is going to be down a couple of hundred million dollars between years in terms of our spending level between periods.  

With regards to the cost structure, I don't have the per barrel amounts with me on the call here right now, but Irene will be happy to give you that detail off-line.  

As to your question referring to, say, the comparisons of the fourth quarter to those of the third for U.S. upstream, in that chart 6 where we showed a variance between quarters of $73 million between quarters in that other bar, the lion's share of that difference is associated with higher after-tax exploration expense. The net of all those other things that are in such a large business as ours, including DD&A and FAS 133 and equity income from cogen operations and the like, essentially all more or less netted against one another. You will see then in the supplements to the Investor Relations material that was sent out the quarterly pattern throughout the year.  

Thanks very much. May we have the next question?  

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark Company.  

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: I guess I'm a little bit surprised guys by the 2007 production number, a little bit weaker, frankly, than what I was looking for. Could you clarify what you have included for OPEC cuts? And what is serving to offset the gains that ought to be otherwise expected in west Africa? And particularly with the startup of Tengiz Phase 2, which perhaps is being delayed somewhat, and thus explains the flat year-over-year comparison.  

STEVE CROWE: Let me begin by giving you just some numbers for orientation, and then Dave can follow up with a little of the broader perspective. Starting with the full year 2006 our OEG production was 2.666 million barrels per day. The main reason for the decline from 2006 into 2007 is associated with the full year impact versus the partial year effect of the conversions of Empresa Mixta from the OSAs to equity ventures. That is worth about 64 million barrels -- 64,000 barrels a day.  

The balance then essentially net against one another. And what it includes are major capital project ramp ups and major capital project startups in 2007, which are largely offset by the net declines in the operations. These would be normal field declines net of workovers, development and delineation.  

Some of the ramp ups that we are seeing in 2007 will be the continued ramp up of the BBLT, as well as the ACG operations in Azerbaijan. Later on in the year we also see startups occurring in 2007, including the TCO expansion, and maybe some increased operations in Asia. So that is the broad view. It is essentially then the impact of Empresa Mixta is the main driver.  

DAVE O'REILLY: Let me just add a little bit. One of the issues that we're equivocating here a little bit about is the timing of Tengiz. We have, as you have probably seen in the press, a labor dispute that disrupted -- it didn't distract our ongoing operations, but some of the construction. We're clarifying what the time impacts of that will be. I hope we will have a much better picture on that in the March meeting to give to all of you. If you could just hold that thought until we see you in mid-March, I think we will have better information.  

MARK GILMAN: Dave, if you could just clarify what is in there for OPEC cuts?  

DAVE O'REILLY: It is really -- we didn't really put anything specific in there. It is just an acknowledgment that it could impact our business. And I mentioned so far -- as I mentioned earlier, so far the impact has been in the order of less than 10,000 barrels a day.  

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers.  

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Last year in your analyst meeting you gave very good information about success on your exploration program -- how much is the resource-base that you add to that program. I am wondering if you can give us a preview of what is the program update in 2006? And I mean maybe -- I am trying to fit it in into one question. If you can also give an update about the project for Tahiti, Agbami and Gorgon -- the updates?  

DAVE O'REILLY: So the Tahiti, Agbami and Gorgon?  

PAUL CHENG: Right. And also that that exploration [success] that what is the resource addition that (multiple speakers).  

DAVE O'REILLY: I can say that the resource additions for the year are going to be in excess of 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent. And we will have more detail of that. That represents another very successful year with the drill bit. And will be our year 5th successive of averaging above 1 billion barrels of resources. So it is a strong year. But as I mentioned, Bobby Ryan will be providing a lot more detail on this in the meeting in March.  

You asked about three projects and how they're doing. Let me start with Tahiti. Tahiti has been doing development drilling. The topsides and all of that work is underway. And we anticipate that it will startup in 2008, on schedule, and no reason to believe that there's anything that would prevent that from occurring to date. Everything has been successful, including the work in the yards, as well as the work in the fields.  

Agbami is also doing well. There has been a lot of drilling activity, both on the production wells, as well as the injector wells. The FPSO, which has -- one of the biggest FPSOs built is being built in Korea. And it is well on schedule, and will probably sail in the third quarter of 2007 for positioning somewhere in its location in Africa and Nigeria. So it is also on schedule.  

At Gorgon there were a number of hurdles in Gorgon which had to be resolved. And one of them was resolved in the last few months, and that is the Western Australia government's approval for the environmental permit. That was granted. You'll recall that the EPA there had lodged an objection. We filed an appeal, and the appeal was successful, and those issues are on the way to being resolved.  

We are also required to get federal permits, but now that the state has approved, we're confident that within some time in the second quarter we should be able to complete the federal permits.  

The third issue is cost. Like many of these projects, we are seeing cost challenges and cost escalation. So we and our partners are working together to looking at how we might optimize the design and the construction of the facility to improve the economics. And that work is underway and probably will be complete also somewhere in the second quarter. We have work underway here. Two of the projects are on plan, and the other one is still in the engineering and permitting phase.  

PAUL CHENG: Dave, that means Gorgon is a possibility we may see a project sanction or FID some time in the second half?  

DAVE O'REILLY: It is possible, but I think it all depends on the issues that I have just mentioned. I might -- let me just add that in our reserves bookings this year there are no new LNG projects that have been booked in any of those numbers. That is a very broad based reserve. In my mind, if I look at the queue here, I would think that Angola LNG will come first in the early part of this year. And if we meet all of the objectives that we have set out for the Gorgon project it would be later in the year. But again, we have work to do.  

OPERATOR: Bernard Picchi, Wall Street Access.  

BERNARD PICCHI, ANALYST, WALL STREET ACCESS: My question is on Venezuela, which is certainly very topical. Can you brief us on your discussions with the Venezuelan government on their stated goal of achieving a minority interest in the Orinoco leases, including Hamaca? And how much cash flow is at risk to Chevron there? And relatedly what are you doing in Plataforma Deltana and elsewhere in terms of discretionary spending in Venezuela?  

DAVE O'REILLY: Let me just talk about Venezuela overall. First of all, we have -- we read this morning that the government has declared, or President Chavez has declared, that he would like to have a new arrangement in place in the Orinoco projects, which there are four, by May 1. That means there will be a period of negotiation. And it is very hard to speculate during a period about how that will turn out. So I would rather not speculate, but just let us update you as we make progress and know what the outcome is.  

As for our other operations in Venezuela, we converted Boscan to Empresa Mixta. We did that very successfully, and we were able to preserve value and extend the life of the contract in doing that. You can negotiate there on the basis of a reasonable dialogue. And I'm hoping that we would be able to do that in the Orinoco as well, although I don't want to speculate without having gotten there.  

You asked about discretionary expenditures. There are no other major expenditures at the moment, because everything else we have in the portfolio, including Plataforma Deltana, is really at the very early phase of evaluation still. So the big issue is the resolution of Hamaca. I would rather not speculate about the impact on cash flow or any other metrics, because I think it is something that is commercially important to us, and it is better not to speculate until we have actually resolved the issue.  

OPERATOR: Neil McMahon, Sanford Bernstein.  

NEIL MCMAHON: I had been very good and queued up again. Just a question really looking at new areas that you look like you have been active in. First of all, could you give an update on what really got signed with the Gazprom agreement that came out last month, or at least the announcement?  

Secondly, you didn't seem to be all that active in the Indian licensing round that happened late last year. Maybe just an update on your MOU with Reliance and India in the upstream.  

DAVE O'REILLY: Let me deal with the latter one first. We have -- in the last round in India we were not active. We put it through the evaluation process -- the opportunity in those leases through our opportunity process, our evaluation that we use to identify areas that are attractive and a priority. And it didn't -- the opportunities there did not meet our criteria. It is because of those criteria and the rigid application of them that I think we have been successful in the places in which we have been exploring. So it just didn't meet our criteria for exploration.  

Now that has not in any way adversely impacted our relationship with Reliance. We're still working with them obviously on the refinery, as I mentioned earlier. And we're also pursuing other opportunities to partner across the full value chain. I think they are good partners, and we're very pleased to be affiliated with them in India, and perhaps even in other areas where we have common interests.  

You asked about Gazprom. We have a joint venture with Gazprom Neft in Western Siberia. It is an exploration joint venture on leases that have recently been extended. It is relatively modest. And it is a -- I don't want to speculate about how successful it will be, but we think it is a good start, and we will see what it leads us to. But it is early days yet in that opportunity.  

OPERATOR: Dan Vetter, JP Morgan.  

DAN VETTER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Could you provide us with an update on the Bibiyana gas deal in Bangladesh? And secondly, can you talk about your major sources of reserve bookings in 2006?  

DAVE O'REILLY: First of all on Bibiyana, the work is essentially complete. In fact, I think our plan is to start it up this quarter. It might have started up sooner, but there have been civil challenges there -- not around our fields, but in delays through the ports because of the elections that are ongoing, which have delayed some of the -- have access to some of the equipment that we need. But the project is essentially complete. And we anticipate within the next few months that we will be starting up.  

I'm going to defer on the second question, because I think you're going to see a lot of detail on our reserves. I'm confident that the aggregate numbers that I've given you are correct. I'm also confident that there are no new LNG projects booked. But the numbers that we quote in aggregate are preliminary, and you will see them in detail in our 10-K in early March. And we will be talking about them in more detail at our March analyst meeting.  

I can say though that they are broadly distributed across the organization in many locations. And that it was a very good organic year for Chevron.  

OPERATOR: David Wheeler, Neuberger.  

DAVID WHEELER, ANALYST, NEUBERGER: Dave, can you tell us what the bite out of reserve replacement was from Venezuela?  

DAVE O'REILLY: There was no bite, because you'll recall that the Empresa Mixta conversion at Boscan was a -- we were converting from an operating services agreement to an equity agreement. So actually the impact on reserves in Venezuela is a positive one and not a negative one.  

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark Company.  

MARK GILMAN: Just two very specific things. Were there any LIFO-related earnings in the international downstream? Those kinds of things tend to occur potentially at year end.  

And secondly, the international exploration expense number in the fourth quarter was, to say the least, very high. Are there any larger specific write-offs that were included in that number?  

STEVE CROWE: As to the exploration expense, there weren't any -- there was a lot of activity, as I described, through the context of our expenditures. But there is not -- it wasn't a specific item that at this juncture we're disclosing as being unique. But there was a lot of activity flowing from our other successes.  

At as far as LIFO is concerned, Irene, do you have anything on that?  

IRENE MELITAS, MANAGER IR, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Yes. Both the U.S. and the international segments had some adjustments. On the U.S. side it was fairly minimal -- on the negative, but nonetheless minimal. It was 10 to 15. For the international there were also some inventory (Company Correction: Misstated as LIFO on call) effects on the positive, a little north of 50. (Company Clarification: Figures quoted represented variance between quarters)  

OPERATOR: William Ferrer, W. H. Reeves and Company.  

WILLIAM FERRER, ANALYST, W.H. REEVES AND COMPANY: You discussed -- gave us a good rundown on R&M asset sales. Could you discuss any opportunities that you might see on the upstream asset sales? And further could you discuss your other businesses, Dynegy and the like, do you see any opportunities to dispose of assets at this point in time?  

DAVE O'REILLY: The ones I discussed were ones that are in the public domain on the downstream. That is why I could be very specific. On the upstream, we periodically find assets in our upstream portfolio, as you know, that don't fit, or have matured to the point that we don't think we can add value, and under those circumstances we sell. But I can't speculate about that for this year.  

At as far as the rest the portfolio is concerned, we have -- I'm not in a position to speculate either. So I think I would prefer to pass on that and just stick with the answer that I've given you that the ones that we have talked about that are in the public domain.  

Just as a general comment, our ongoing asset sales last year were somewhat lower than typical. And we would expect that we would be much closer to the typical range, which is in the $1 billion to $3 billion range for the year 2007. Thank you for the question.  

I think we are going to conclude the call. We promised we would get out of here before the top of the hour. And, Matt, thank you for handling today's call. And thank you for all participating on today's call. And I look forward to seeing you at our upcoming security analyst meeting in New York next month. Thank you all.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's fourth quarter 2006 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect. Good day.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070209e32200134
  


 HD
 Q3  2006  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
7,866 words
   PD
27 October 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Mat, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's third-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Steve Crowe. Please go ahead, sir.  

STEVE CROWE, VP & CFO, CHEVRON: Thank you, Mat, and welcome, everyone, to Chevron's third-quarter earnings conference call. Today on the call I am joined by Paul Siegele, the Vice President of our Gulf of Mexico Deepwater Exploration, and Irene Melitas, our Manager of Investor Relations.  

   TD
Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2006. We will refer to the slides that are available on the Web.  

Before we get started, please be reminded that today's presentation contains estimates and projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the Safe Harbor statement on slide two.  

I will begin with slide three, which provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company reported results of $5 billion or $2.29 per diluted share for the quarter. Our earnings were up 40% compared to the third-quarter 2005 as noted in the earnings press release. Third-quarter results were up 15% from the second quarter of 2006, which Irene will discuss shortly. Return on capital employed over the trailing four quarters was 23%. Our balance sheet continues to show financial strength and flexibility. The debt ratio remained at 13% at quarter-end. Our capital and exploratory spending was $4.1 billion for the quarter. Stock repurchases were $1.4 billion for the quarter. We had cumulative purchases totaling $3.8 billion. We expect to complete the current $5 billion program by year-end.  

And finally, our year-to-date total shareholder return is running about 22%. Irene will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Irene?  

IRENE MELITAS, MANAGER, IR, CHEVRON: Thanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. My remarks compare results of the third-quarter 2006 to the second quarter. As a reminder, our earnings release compared third-quarter 2006 to the same quarter a year ago.  

Turning to slide four, net income was about $660 million higher in the third quarter. Starting with the left side of the chart, higher realizations benefited upstream results in the US but were largely offset by the effects of lower commodity prices internationally. The positive margin variance in downstream reflects stronger marketing margins, particularly in the US.  

Third-quarter earnings benefited from higher upstream volumes, mostly due to higher international upstream liftings. The variance in the residual other bar is the net of everything else and reflects the absence of last quarter's $250 million abandonment charge associated with last year's Gulf of Mexico storms, as well as higher chemicals results. Offsetting these favorable variances are an increase in environmental reserves, a negative swing in tax-related items and other miscellaneous items.  

Slide five summarizes the results of our US upstream earnings, which were roughly $370 million higher between quarters. Higher realizations, particularly for liquids, benefited earnings by $65 million. The $1.92 per barrel increase for liquids between quarters was more favorable than the change in industry benchmark prices and contributed to a favorable $60 million variance between quarters. While the average quarterly price for WTI was about flat between quarters, the Gulf of Mexico benchmark trade month price, which is on a lagged basis, rose by $5.60 per barrel. Slightly higher natural gas realizations resulted in a positive $5 million profit effect. Though Henry Hub bid week prices declined, our average realizations improved by $0.04 per thousand cubic feet reflecting our regional production mix.  

The effects of storm recovery volumes in the Gulf of Mexico and one additional producing day benefited earnings by $30 million. The positive variance in the abandonment bar represents the absence of last quarter's charge of about $250 million for higher abandonment costs associated with structures and wells damaged from last year's hurricane. The variance in other is the net of everything else and includes a favorable swing in FAS 133 effects of about $20 million.  

Turning to slide six. International upstream earnings for the quarter were about $140 million lower than the second quarter's earnings. Lower realizations reduced earnings by about $45 million. While Spot Brent prices rose $0.33 per barrel, unit realizations on liquids declined by $0.34 per barrel, reflecting country mix effects. Higher liftings during the quarter, particularly in Australia and Azerbaijan, resulted in a positive earnings variance of $250 million. At the end of the quarter, liftings were essentially in balance with production.  

The variance in tax-related items reduced earnings by $240 million between quarters. As highlighted in our interim update for the quarter, a negative swing primarily reflects the effects of recently enacted UK tax increases on North Sea oil and gas producers, as well as the net of other tax-related items. The variance in other is the net of everything else and includes higher exploration and operating expenses.  

Slide seven summarizes our worldwide oil equivalent production volumes during the last three quarters. The figures include volumes produced from oilsands in Canada and production under an operating service agreement in Venezuela. Production has trended up this year with the second-quarter volumes being 25,000 barrels oil equivalent per day higher than the first and the third quarter about 30,000 barrels above the second. A steady increase has occurred in both our US and international operations.  

During the third quarter, the volume increase in the US of 4000 oil equivalent barrels per day was attributable to the restoration of volumes shut in due to last year's storms in the Gulf of Mexico. Partially offsetting this increase were the effects of maintenance activities and normal field declines. Outside the US, oil and gas production increased by 27,000 oil equivalent barrels per day in the third quarter. The improvement was driven by production in Eurasia, following an annual turnaround at Tengiz and the full-quarter effects of the BTC Pipeline in Azerbaijan, in Canada, following planned turnaround at Athabasca during the second quarter, and in Angola, due to the continued ramp-up of the Benguela Belize Lobito fields. These increases were partially offset by lower production elsewhere, particularly in Denmark due to seasonal requirements and a planned shutdown.  

During last quarter's conference call, we discussed the estimated effects on production volumes for the second half of the year arising from the anticipated conversions to Empresa Mixta in Venezuela. The actual conversion took effect during the first half of October and is expected to reduce fourth-quarter production levels on the order of 90,000 barrels per day.  

Turning to slide eight, US downstream net income rose by about $275 million between quarters led by stronger marketing margins, lower crude costs and improved refinery operations. Our realized margin effects of $260 million contributed favorably to earnings relative to the second quarter, reflecting more robust marketing margins, particularly in the West and the lower cost of supplying crude oil to the US refineries, including a favorable swing in final pricing adjustments for long-haul crudes. Lower refining margins partially offset the results.  

In the West the ANS Refining Indicator margin declined by $9.70 per barrel between periods, and in the East the Gulf Coast Light/Heavy Differential Indicator declined by $2.94 per barrel. In the West the Los Angeles Dealer Tank Wagon to Spot Motor Gasoline Indicator improved $9.43 as the decline in spot prices outpaced the decline in dealer tank wagon prices.  

In the East the Houston Rack to Spot Indicator margin rose $2.35. Improved margins for aviation fuels, asphalts and lubricants also contributed to marketing results. The other variance reflects higher earnings in pipeline, partially offset by higher fuel price effects and other miscellaneous items.  

Turning to slide nine, international downstream earnings of $610 million were higher than the second quarter's by about $165 million. A realized downstream margin increased earnings between quarters by about $100 million and was driven by improved marketing margins in most regions and beneficial inventory effects that were partially offset by weaker refining margins. Sales volumes resulted in a positive variance between quarters of $15 million on higher seasonal demand and less refinery downtime relative to the second quarter.  

Finally, the variance in other includes higher shipping results, improved petrochemical margins in Korea and other miscellaneous items.  

Slide 10 shows chemicals results were $168 million in the third quarter compared to $94 million in the second quarter. Chevron Phillips Chemical Company's stronger performance for the quarter was primarily due to higher ethylene and benzene margins. The other bar includes our Oronite additives business whose earnings were higher in the third quarter due to improved margins and lower non-manufacturing expenses and a favorable swing in foreign exchange results.  

Slide 11 covers all other. The third quarter's variance was largely due to the absence of a second-quarter gain from the redemption of the Company's investment in Dynergy's preferred stock reflected in the P&L businesses bar. The variance in other is the aggregate of all other items and includes an $80 million increase in environmental reserves as mentioned in our interim update guidance for the quarter.  

The effects were partially offset by several discrete items, including various beneficial tax-related adjustments, favorable changes in interest income and interest expense and other miscellaneous items. Our third-quarter interim update guidance for the segment calls for net quarterly charges in the range of $160 to $200 million, excluding Dynergy. Actual net charges for the quarter were lower.  

That completes our brief analysis for the quarter. Back over to you, Steve.  

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Irene. Just yesterday Chevron announced its decision to participate in the first phase of Shell Canada's planned expansion of the Athabasca Oil Sands Project in Alberta, Canada and the sanctioning of the Perdido regional project in the US Gulf of Mexico's ultra-deep water to develop the Great White Tobago and Silvertip fields.  

Earlier in the quarter, we also announced the results of the Jack well tests in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. As mentioned at the start of our call, here with us today is Paul Siegele, Vice President of our Gulf of Mexico Deepwater Exploration, who will discuss this prospect and put it in the context of our overall Gulf of Mexico portfolio. Paul?  

PAUL SIEGELE, VP, GULF OF MEXICO DEEPWATER EXPLORATION, CHEVRON: Thank you, Steve. Let me start by saying a few words about our broader Gulf of Mexico activities, which are shown on slide 12.  

The Gulf of Mexico is a core producing asset for Chevron, and we produced 223,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day Chevron share. This position in existing infrastructure will be an important enabler in bringing on our future deepwater production. Chevron is the largest leaseholder in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, is currently developing our Tahiti and Blind Faith discoveries, and as just mentioned by Steve, has recently sanctioned the Perdido project operated by Shell. Tahiti and Blind Faith have expected first oil deliveries in 2008, and Perdido is expected to start up around the turn of the decade.  

In addition to our capital projects, we are actively engaged in appraising other discoveries, and we have key exploratory wells to be drilled over the next several years. Our position in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico will be an important contributor to the Company's future growth.  

On the next slide, turning to Jack, Chevron announced the original discovery in September of 2004. The appraisal well Jack 2 was drilled a year later in 2005. An extended well test was conducted on the appraisal well. This test was critical because the rocks in this part of the Lower Tertiary have low permeability, and there was uncertainty about the flowrate. The test was conducted during the second quarter of 2006 and was designed to evaluate a portion of the total pay interval. During the test, the well sustained a flowrate of more than 6000 barrels of crude oil per day.  

This is encouraging news. Because of that flowrate, the prospect of a commercial discovery has improved. There's a lot of oil in place in the Jack structure, and Chevron has a leading exploratory position in the trend.  

More than a half-dozen world records for test equipment pressure, depth and duration were set during the Jack tests. For example, the perforating guns were fired at world record depths and pressures. Additionally, the test tree and other drilled stem test tools set world records. The team achieved these records with no days away from work and no spills.  

Our next steps are to incorporate the flow test data into our reservoir simulations and optimized development scenarios. This work will take the better part of next year, and we also will have to decide if we will need additional appraisal drilling to move the project forward. It is too early to set first production dates until we complete our appraisal assessment and our simulation work. The capital required is likely to exceed $3 billion, consistent with other Gulf of Mexico deepwater projects. Jack is located close to the Saint Malo discovery, and synergistic development of both fields is a possibility.  

Turning to slide 14, Chevron is the number one operator of Lower Tertiary Wilcox discoveries with interest in six to 12 discoveries in the trend. The Jack well test results and evaluations are key to unlocking the potential of this trend, and Chevron is in the position to utilize these advantages and our expansion of this emerging trend. In our estimates, the Lower Tertiary trend could contain 3 to 15 billion barrels oil equivalent estimated ultimate reserves.  

The lower end of that range has probably already been discovered, leaving an upside here of over 10 billion barrels oil equivalent. Again, these rocks are tight. They are buried very deeply and located a long way from existing infrastructure. The Jack well test results, combined with Chevron's technical capabilities, will be a key to unlocking the potential of this trend.  

With participation of six of the 12 discoveries, Chevron has built a knowledge base and a lease base that is a leader in the industry. It is still early days with lots of work ahead of us, but this is a very exciting and promising prospective trend. Back over to you, Steve.  

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Paul. Well, that concludes our prepared remarks. Paul will join us for the Q&A if you have additional questions about the Jack well test or the Lower Tertiary. We will now take your questions. One question per caller please. And we will try to wrap up at or before the top of the hour.  

So, Matt, will you please open the lines?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Bruce Lanni, A.G. Edwards.  

BRUCE LANNI, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: Good quarter. I have actually -- well, I have more than one question, but I will just ask my one question. Any thoughts about what the potential financial impact could be if Proposition 87 is passed in California as far as on the producing assets? Have you --  

STEVE CROWE: Well, thanks, Bruce. As another Californian, I hope you will vote appropriately come election day. For those of you who may not be familiar with it, here in the state of California, there is a Proposition 87, that would impose up to a 6% severance tax on production here in the state. As the largest producer in the state of California, while a lot the of particulars concerning the actual application of this proposition have yet to be finalized, we could see at current prices and current production levels a penalty on Chevron on the order of $200 million.  

The last we have seen of the external assessments as to the status of this proposition is that it is essentially in a dead heat. So it has been moving back and forth between the proponents and the opponents, but right now statistically it is too close to call.  

So that is one proposition that could have a bearing on Chevron. Clearly there have been other tax effects in this high price environment over the last year that have affected us and other companies in differentially sort of ways. There was an increased tax in the state of Alaska that had a fairly minimal impact on Chevron. It was effective the first of April, as I recall, and there are other things that are occurring.  

So just to reiterate, the impact on us for the state of California if this proposition were to pass is about $200 million. That is a before tax number, and so we will see how it plays out.  

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.  

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I'm trying to work out how to mix my series of questions into one question, but I will give it a go.  

STEVE CROWE: I have every confidence that you will be able to achieve that.  

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. It is a question for Paul really, and it starts firstly with more on the Great White project. I don't think you gave a CapEx number. If you could give us that and confirm that you said that Jack was $3 billion in your expectations, if you could go on to talk a little bit about the returns that you expect relative to conventional deepwater, if you will as opposed to the ultra deepwater that we are talking about here, and if you could then address why Trident has not been mentioned in the development plan for Great White, that would be interesting.  

And finally, if you could talk about relinquishments and the potential loss of acreage from what seems to be a lower-level of exploration activity for you guys, that would be great.  

PAUL SIEGELE: You managed to succeed in getting (multiple speakers) as many items as you possibly could (multiple speakers).  

PAUL SANKEY: I think it ended up not being a question after all.  

PAUL SIEGELE: I tell you what I'm going to go through what I remember -- (multiple speakers)  

STEVE CROWE: Before turning it over to Paul, as I recall, I don't believe any development cost has been quoted with respect to Great White, and any such specifics probably should be addressed by the operator rather than ourselves. But, as to some of the other parts of your question, I will ask Paul to respond.  

PAUL SIEGELE: Yes, so that is right. I think anything specifically about the Perdido ought to go to Shell. The $3 billion figure, and I think it is important to state that at this point everything is still on the table in terms of development options at Jack. And so that could be something as low capital as an FPSO early production system. The $3 billion would be kind of a standard spar, which is close to what it is costing us at Tahiti.  

The returns in the ultra-deep, they can still be pretty robust, although we're seeing cost increases continuing to rise even though crude oil prices have stabilized. So typically they are still north of 20%, 25% even in the ultra-deep.  

As to Trident, we have two discoveries in the Perdido, Trident and Tiger, both that were not committed to the regional host, and that was partially due to optimization for the facility size. And that is to say that the incremental costs to bring them on in the first phase were not economic. So we are planning to bring them on later on, and in fact, there is a kind of key exploratory well to be drilled just north of Tiger that might serve as a separate outlet for that discovery. Did I catch everything, Paul, or was there something else?  

PAUL SANKEY: The final thoughts of that single question was, firstly, if you could just clarify the north of 20% you are talking about for returns, is that off a $50 oil or --?  

PAUL SIEGELE: Yes, $55, though.  

PAUL SANKEY: $55, great. And the final part was that we have got the significant relinquishments issue (multiple speakers) in the Gulf of Mexico and the tightness of rigs and the potential for you to lose acreage I guess if you don't explore in the context of a very tight rig market. It would be very interesting to hear what you have to say about that.  

PAUL SIEGELE: Yes, so we will be faced with quite a turnover in the next three years. We have three rigs under long-term contract, and we have contracted for two additional new builds. So while we will see a lot of churning in our acreage, I'm not concerned at this point about letting good prospects go. We will see smaller things or things that were picked up for different trends. For instance, in the Walker Ridge/Keathley Canyon area, a lot of that acreage was picked up for a Miocene play 10 years ago prior to the emergence of this lower tertiary play. So a lot of it is going to go back into release, but it is not -- we are not concerned at this time that we will not get to the key prospects in time.  

PAUL SANKEY: Just any observations on rig markets and then I will leave it, I promise. That is it. Thanks.  

PAUL SIEGELE: Well, they are tight as you know, and particularly for this play, there is probably only a half dozen to a dozen in the world that can drill to these depths in these water depths. So that is part of what led us to committing to the two new builds. But I guess what I would say, though, is it is a tight market. We feel like we've got adequate rig needs. What we really have is kind of a short-term crunch in the next year or so as we have got our rigs tied up with developing Tahiti and Blind Faith. We are having to go out and do deals for the exploratory portion of our program. But we think it's really more of a year or so, year and a half tight market for Chevron in particular.  

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Citigroup.  

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Steve, I'm going to try and bolt a couple together as well, and it is basically on production guidance. Clearly your guidance in the second quarter was 2.6 for the second half, and Venezuela obviously has helped you in the third quarter. With seasonal recovery in the back end of the year, would we be right to think in the range of 2.7 for the second half? And the bolt-on is to just bring us up-to-date with the key drivers for 2008, and if we could talk specifically about how you see incremental margins changing as, let's say, we see the Tengiz sour gas project come on versus some of the declines that you have?  

STEVE CROWE: As was the case in the second quarter call, we advised that for the second half of the year production would run about 2.6 million barrels a day working on the premise that the Empresa Mixta would take effect in the early part of the third quarter.  

As Irene had mentioned in her remarks, the Empresa Mixta has taken effect during the first half of October, and that is part of the reason or the main reason why the production levels in the third quarter were 2.7. The impact of the Empresa Mixta on our OSAs at LLC 652 and Boscan would be about 90,000 barrels per day.  

So, Doug, I would expect for the fourth quarter the production to be something north of 2.6. We are seeing additional production coming on BBLL portion of the BBLT large project. But, as close as we can measure it, that would be a reasonable estimate. In essence, I'm taking the third-quarter volumes and adjusting it for Empresa Mixta.  

You pointed out as to next year, I think the volume projections that we see would probably still after allowing for the Empresa Mixta be not dissimilar to what we had talked about at our analyst meeting in March. We will be -- we are in the throes of reassessing the production guidance that we will be giving for 2007. And you also had alluded to the fact that we have new production coming on for the TCO expansion. Current indications are that that would start up for the combined two phases of that project in the middle of 2007, and that will be a very profitable prospect. So we are looking forward to increasing production, and as we look forward, each of these large projects that we have been talking about for the last couple of years are progressing as expected and coming on stream.  

OPERATOR: Jennifer Rowland, JPMorgan.  

JENNIFER ROWLAND, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I have a follow-up question on the Lower Tertiary. Can you give us a sense of how active you plan to be there in '07, and maybe you can tell us the number of exploration wells that you're targeting in '07? That would be helpful.  

PAUL SIEGELE: Let's see exploration wells in '07. You know, I don't have the rig queue in front of me. I know that there is at least one or two. I mentioned before '06 and '07 we have got our three rigs tied up with the developing -- excuse me, Tahiti and Blind Faith. So we're planning to do additional drilling at Saint Malo and Jack, although we still have to decide if that is going to be required. But for '07, I'm guessing we will have one or two in the Lower Tertiary exploration wells.  

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers.  

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I'm wondering, Steve, can you comment that any progress in the neutral zone license extension, and since you guys have already mentioned the pilot project there, without an official extension, will you be able to book any reserve?  

STEVE CROWE: Thank you, Paul. Well, we are in the throes of negotiating with the Kingdom an extension of the project of our concession. No reserves would be booked until that concession has been agreed to and the extension agreed upon. But you're quite right. We are moving forward with the pilot projects to demonstrate our capacity to increase production in the area.  

PAUL CHENG: Steve, can I just ask one quick follow-up, a quick question on a different subject? You're talking about refining and marketing versus the second quarter, can you break down for us how much is the increase in marketing, and how much is the decrease in the refining margin between US and non-US?  

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Paul. Chevron has one business segment that covers refining, marketing and transportation, and we geographically split it between the US and international. We don't have separate segments for refining and marketing, but certainly using indicative margins if you want to arrive at prices at the refinery gate, you can directionally get some flavor as to how the refining side of the house is performing relative to the marketing side.  

Looking at the US, for example, the refining margins as we showed in the interim update narrowed during the third quarter. Simply the product prices at the refinery gate, their decline outpaced crude costs.  

On the flip side, marketing margins would have widened in the third quarter as the product price at the refinery gate decline outpaced the decline of the prices to our customers. That should not be terribly surprising as you would expect in a falling crude price environment. Some stickiness with the price change to our customers.  

In Chevron's case, a couple of other things to keep in mind as you look at our performance at least in the US. We have a fair amount of long-haul provisionally priced crudes, which in a rising market penalizes results and in a declining market benefits them.  

We also, as mentioned on the call last quarter, we are long in marketing relative to refining in the Eastern part of the United States. But the key thing I really want to leave you with is the excellent operating performance that we had at our refineries here around the system.  

In our earnings release, we commented on the fact that for the fuel refineries in the United States we were running at near design capacity for crude input. And looking at a few other indicators in terms of the downstream units within the refinery, we have seen that our refinery utilization in the third quarter of '06 has been as high as it has ever been in darn near four years. So operating performance was a key portion to our profitability.  

I think by analogy you can make some similar comments looking at some of the indicator margins overseas, but clearly there are more dispersed markets, and it is harder to make a single generalization. There are, as we pointed out in the last conference call, problems of being -- looking at what the industry indicated margins call for and what anyone company may ultimately realized. I hope that helps for you, Paul.  

OPERATOR: Mark Flannery, Credit Suisse.  

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: My question is about the UK tax changes. I am sorry if you covered this in the prepared remarks. I missed some of them. But other companies have broken that number out into two or three pieces, one being the in quarter impact of the higher taxes. The impact on the deferred tax items and the prior period, i.e. the catchup back to 2006 at the beginning of the year. Can you do that for us so we can get better comparability between your results and others?  

STEVE CROWE: Sure. Irene, do you want to cover that one?  

IRENE MELITAS: Sure. Yes, what we booked in the third quarter was roughly $230 million, and that was consistent with the guidance that we had provided in our interim update.  

You're right, that is comprised of several different components. We did have a onetime deferred tax adjustment which was in the order of magnitude of about $130 million, and then we had a catchup adjustment, if you will, for the first six months of roughly $75 million, and then the balance is the current tax.  

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.  

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK: A Lower Tertiary question, and then further rules allowing, I want to sneak one other quick one in. There has been no drill stem test or extended production test at all to my knowledge in the Perdido. And I am wondering on what basis given that, Paul, that you're comfortable that the permeability in that portion of the trend will be comparable to that that you have observed in the Jack test?  

PAUL SIEGELE: That is a great question, and I'm glad you asked it because I think there is a confusion about the Perdido. The whole trend is the same age. It is Lower Tertiary. But in the Great White area, there is a 100 foot interval or so that has excellent porosity and permeability unlike the rest of the trend. So Jack and Saint Malo and really the greater Lower Tertiary trend is pretty much tight everywhere it has been penetrated. But in that Great White area, there is a good porous and permeable zone, and that is serving as kind of the anchor for that development. And we have had several penetrations there, and none of the partners felt that a flow test was required.  

MARK GILMAN: If I can follow that for just a second, my recollection, Paul, is that there were significant permeability-oriented concerns in and around the time Unocal was drilling and appraising Trident. So I guess one could assume that is outside that sweet spot you alluded to.  

PAUL SIEGELE: It is interesting because Trident is -- I forget if it is slightly older or slightly younger -- it is a different rock, and it is again still in that Lower Tertiary. But the difference in Trident is it is a channelized sand, which means it kind of comes and goes over the structure, whereas the rocks at Tiger and at Great White and Tobago and the others are all kind of a blanket sheet sand, and there really is not the same kind of problem. (multiple speakers). That is one of the reasons why Trident did not get into the original commitment into the host.  

MARK GILMAN: Thanks, Paul. Just one other quick one. Tengiz, it appears there has been difficulties with sanctioning and approving the CPC expansion. My understanding is that is running 80, 85% full. What does that mean in terms of the sour gas expansion at Tengiz when it comes on? Is there going to be room in CPC to move it, or do we go to a trains, boats, planes, cars and whatever else transportation alternative to move that to market?  

STEVE CROWE: When the expansion comes on in the third quarter, as I mentioned middle to third quarter of next year, clearly the pipeline will not have been expanded at that juncture. We have been in continuing negotiations for quite some time to achieve that. So we have arranged and will be in a position to move the incremental crude out of Tengiz much as we had done in the early days before the pipeline came on, and as you described, we have got lots of railcars lined up and facilities to move it to market.  

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Merrill Lynch.  

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Like other financial analysts, it will be multipart because I cannot count.  

STEVE CROWE: John, that is all because of Paul at the beginning. Fire away.  

JOHN HERRLIN: With the Lower Tertiary for the tight portion, Paul, clearly it has got less permeability. Do you have one interstitial cement? Can you say that? And then looking at kind of a subservice development, not a topside development, how many more wells would you have in that kind of play versus a Miocene play just to give us a sense of development?  

PAUL SIEGELE: Yes, another good question. Let me make sure I understood. Did you say, does it have one interstitial cement?  

JOHN HERRLIN: Well, I was wondering if you have interstitial cements where you have any cement at all in the sands? (multiple speakers)  

PAUL SIEGELE: No, the sands are well cemented. They are very fine grained. And they are also very uniform over long, long distances.  

So I guess the answer to your question is we need more wells than a typical Miocene play. One of the blessings of this play is the very thick oil column. So all you have to do is slant the wells at a high angle, and you sort of get the same benefit of the amount of surface area exposed to the rock as a horizontal well.  

So part of what is able to overcome this lower permeability is the tremendous volume of oil there and the tremendous rock that you have to work with. But yes, we will need to have more wells than a Miocene development, and just how many wells is kind of the key work that we are doing now with the reservoir model. In other words, do you do a few wells in the center as a sweet spot, or do you try to get the entire fringe to use horizontals, do you use multilaterals? There are lots of different kinds of development options to consider.  

JOHN HERRLIN: Is it too early to determine the drive mechanisms of water driver depletion?  

PAUL SIEGELE: I don't know the answer to that.  

OPERATOR: Daniel Barcelo, Banc of America Securities.  

DANIEL BARCELO, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: A question if I could on California operations. Firstly, maybe just to expand a little on Prop 87. I don't know if you could quickly review for us your capital spending now in California, what would you think about in terms of decline rates? And then what impact if any you would think that royalties could have on some future activity or production?  

And the second thing, if you will permit me just on California, on downstream earnings, this quarter is clearly about marketing, particularly obviously the West Coast. In the past, a lot of California dealers when they had some high pricing was often followed by some longer periods of very low margins. Sometimes I think if I recall it even prices inverted to spot. I don't know if you saw a similar situation coming up and basically what you're seeing now in terms of dealer margins in the fourth quarter.  

STEVE CROWE: Well, with respect to your Prop 87 related question, I don't have the information that is specific to our capital spending here in the state of California. But if you want to follow-up with Irene off-line, we can see what information we can provide. But typically we don't provide on them from a financial disclosure point of view that level of specificity.  

In the West here in California, we really do have at least for Chevron very much integrated R&M margins, and with that arbitrariness that I had described earlier in response to Paul Cheng's question of establishing spot values at the refinery gate, from time to time we have seen inversions on the marketing side. They usually don't last very long as you compare, say, in the face of motor gasoline dealer tank wagon prices to spot load gas prices, but they have occurred from time to time. Obviously in the recent past here, we have seen integrated margins go south as we have progressed during the course of the third quarter and here into the early fourth quarter. And that is about as far as I'm going to take you at this point.  

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers.  

PAUL CHENG: Steve, can Irene maybe give us talking about the international inventory benefit and also the price finalization benefit, any kind of number that you can share?  

And also I think for Paul, if you can talk about the deep shelf, the Gulf of Mexico is an area that you guys are interested.  

STEVE CROWE: Well, I'm not sure I fully understood your inventory question, but in the context of provisionally priced foreign crude, as I had mentioned to you, Chevron acquires crude. It runs in the 12 to 15 million barrels as I recall of on the water at any point in time, and some of the conditions call for the price to be finalized a month and a half or so after or a little more after lifting. So initially it is provisionally priced.  

Then in a rising market, those cargoes that are provisionally priced will be revalued, and you will have a higher cost. The converse happens in a falling market, and those are some of the benefits that I had alluded to in comparing the second quarter and the third quarter. So with that rule of thumb that I gave you and with your taking an estimate of what market prices might have been at the beginning of the second, the beginning of the third and now the beginning of the fourth, you can get a rough approximation.  

PAUL CHENG: Steve, is most of the benefit showing up in the US, or it is going to be split evenly between US and international?  

STEVE CROWE: Well, the situation that I described to you, Paul, is all a US item. It is for the cost of goods for crude right here in the US.  

PAUL CHENG: Right. And how about international? I thought Irene saying that there would be some -- was also benefit from some inventory effect?  

STEVE CROWE: We saw some short-term inventory swings that benefited the comparisons between the second and the third quarter where they were adverse in the second quarter and favorable in the third. Again, it is a function of our inventory methodology where we value inventories on a year-to-date average acquisition cost. (multiple speakers)  

PAUL CHENG: No, that I totally understand. But do you have a number, a -- how much did you say, 50 million benefit, 100 million you can share?  

IRENE MELITAS: It is about $100 million, the variance.  

OPERATOR: Jeffrey Jacobe, Fayex Sarofim.  

JEFFREY JACOBE, ANALYST, FAYEZ SAROFIM: Steve, I had a quick question on the balance sheet. As of September 30, you've got close to $2 billion in net cash. Any update on looking at that going forward in terms of how you get your balance sheet more efficient?  

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Jeff. Over the last couple of years, as Chevron and the rest of our industry has enjoyed high commodity prices and generated strong cash flows, we first and foremost use those cash balances to fund this very attractive queue of projects that we have in front of us. We have been talking about a couple of them in the Gulf of Mexico.  

We have also used those strong cash balances to increase the dividend in the last three years. Earlier this year it was for about 15.5%. A year earlier it was about 12.5% as I recall, and the year before that it was about 10%.  

We have also had a first $5 billion share repurchase program that was completed in 20 months and now a second $5 billion share repurchase program that we expect will be completed in about 12 months. Nonetheless, we still have a very strong balance sheet with 13% debt, ratio and from a net debt perspective, we are actually negative net debt.  

But during these periods of strong commodity prices, we have taken advantage of the opportunity to husband our cash and keep our powder dry in the event of needing to weather any downturns in the market or avail ourselves of any opportunity.  

In that regard, I point out that an opportunity which has proved to be extraordinarily successful was our acquisition of Unocal about a year ago. And in effecting that transaction, we issued 169 million shares of Chevron stock. By the time we complete the current program and looking back to the first program, we will have issued a repurchase to like amount of stock as a result of these two programs that total about $10 billion.  

So we are comfortable with our current financial structure at this point. We expect that the Board of Directors will consider an expansion of the current share repurchase program which should be completed by year-end and that we will continue moving forward to make share repurchases as the conditions warrant.  

Maybe we will take one more question and then wrap it up.  

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.  

MARK GILMAN: Steve, would I be correct if I estimated as a result of the conversion to Empresa Mixta in Venezuela that your non-Boscan volumes as a result of this would go up about 28 KBD, and are you still of the belief that from a profitability standpoint this conversion is a push?  

STEVE CROWE: When we looked at the conversion to Empresa Mixta for Boscan and LL-652, we felt that from an economic point of view, we were able to maintain value for the Company and its shareholders. The OSAs were to run another 10 years, if memory serves me right, and the Empresa Mixta have a contractual term of 20.  

So we doubled the term. We have converted profitability on a larger number of barrels in an OSA to more profitable barrels, but a smaller number of them as an equity owner. So we should see in the short-term lower profits as a result of that, but an extension in terms of their duration. Overall we think we have maintained value. Thanks very much, Mark.  

Just in wrapping up, as I sit back and I take a look at the third quarter, I have got a few takeaways from my perspective. I think we have seen some very solid and climbing production during the course of the year. As a second item, I would say that we have got -- we have seen some excellent performance, some high utilization at our refineries, and that contributed greatly to our financial performance as well.  

Finally, I had mentioned that the Unocal acquisition that I have alluded to, which was about a year ago, has proved to be a resounding success.  

And then finally, we are progressing this terrific queue of high-quality projects as has been mentioned a couple of times during the call and as we have discussed previously.  

So, in closing, let me say to everyone I appreciate your participation on today's call. I especially want to thank the analysts who on behalf of all the participants had asked questions during this morning's session. So, Matt, back to you.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's third-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect. Good day.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c411 : Management Moves | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020061110e2ar0016a
  


 HD
 Q2  2006  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
7,574 words
   PD
28 July 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Matt and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's second-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at the time. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.  

I would now like to turn the conference over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Dave O'Reilly. Please go ahead, sir.  

   TD
DAVE O'REILLY, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, CHEVRON: Good morning and welcome to Chevron's second-quarter earnings conference call. I am joined today by Steve Crowe, our Chief Financial Officer and Irene Melitas, Manager of Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2006 and I will refer to the slides that were e-mailed to you this morning and that are available on the Web.  

Before we get started, please be reminded that today's presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements and I ask that you review the Safe Harbor statement on slide 2.  

I will begin with slide 3 which provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company reported results of $4.4 billion or $1.97 per diluted share for the quarter. Our results were up 18% compared to the second quarter 2005 on higher crude oil prices and increased production. Second-quarter results were up 9% from the first quarter of 2006 and Steve will discuss this shortly.  

Return on capital employed for the trailing four quarters was 24%. We continued to reduce debt during the second quarter and at quarter end, our debt to capital ratio was 13.4%. Our C&E spending totaled $4.3 billion for the quarter. Stock repurchases in the second quarter totaled $1.3 billion reflecting an accelerated buyback pace. And we anticipate completing the $5 billion buyback program by year end. Finally our year-to-date shareholder return is about 21%.  

Steve will now take us through the quarterly comparisons first quarter to second quarter. Steve?  

STEVE CROWE, CFO, CHEVRON: Thanks, Dave. My remarks compare the results of the second-quarter 2006 to the first quarter. Bear in mind that our earnings release compared the second-quarter 2006 to the same quarter a year ago.  

Turning to slide 4, net income was about $360 million higher in the second quarter. Starting with the left side of the chart, stronger crude prices improved upstream results but were partially offset by the effects of lower natural gas prices in the U.S. The positive margin variance in downstream reflects stronger refining margins in the U.S. and improved international margins particularly in Asia-Pacific and Europe.  

Second-quarter earnings benefited from higher production in the U.S. related to ongoing restoration of volume shut in from last year's storm activity. More than offsetting, however, were lower international upstream liftings primarily reflecting the timing of cargoes.  

Our second-quarter earnings were adversely affected by a $250 million abandonment charge net of insurance related to higher anticipated costs to dismantle wells and facilities damaged during last year's Gulf of Mexico storms. The variance in the residual chemicals and other bar is the net of everything else and reflects lower results in chemicals and shipping, a negative swing and tax related and other miscellaneous items.  

Slide five summarizes the results of our U.S. upstream earnings which were roughly $310 million lower between quarters. Higher liquids realizations benefited earnings by 175 million. The $6.62 per barrel increase for liquids between quarters was less than the rise in industry benchmarks prices. While the average quarterly price for WTI improved $7.22 per barrel, the Gulf of Mexico benchmark trade month price which is on a lag basis, rose by $6.42 per barrel.  

Lower natural gas realizations resulted in a negative $165 million profit effect. Our average realizations declined $1.57 per thousand cubic feet, less than the average decline in bid week prices reflecting our regional production mix and volumes sold at spot.  

The effects of storm recovery volumes and one additional producing day benefited earnings by $65 million. The charge for higher abandonment costs associated with structures and wells damaged from last year's hurricanes reduced earnings by about $250 million. Included in the other are lower natural gas trading margins and the negative swing effects of tax related and other miscellaneous items.  

Turning to slide six, international upstream earnings for the quarter were about $125 million higher than the first quarter's earnings. Driven by the rise in liquid prices, higher realizations improved earnings by $325 million. Liquid realizations rose by $7.11 per barrel in line with comparable increases of spot Brent prices. Despite slightly higher international production in the second quarter, lower liftings last quarter particularly in the UK and Australia resulted in a negative earnings variance of $240 million or about $0.11 per share.  

As mentioned during last quarter's conference call, we were overlifted in the first quarter which benefited earnings and during the second quarter, underlifted relative to production by a similar amount. Year-to-date liftings are roughly in balance with production. The other variance bar includes the net effect of various items and includes a favorable swing in foreign exchange and tax items that was partially offset by higher operating costs and exploration expenses.  

Looking forward as a result of the recently enacted tax increase on North Sea oil and gas producers, we anticipate taking a third-quarter catch-up charge of about $200 million and expect another $80 million or so on second-half earnings.  

Slide seven summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production including volumes produced from oils sands in Canada and production under and operating service agreement in Venezuela. Volumes were up about 1% between quarters.  

U.S. production increased 18,000 barrels per day between quarters mainly on the restoration of volumes shut in due to storms in the Gulf of Mexico. Despite the increase, the storm-related activity curtailed second-quarter production by about 60,000 barrels per day.  

Outside the U.S., oil and gas production increased by 7000 barrels per day between quarters. The main changes were in Kazakhstan following the downtime in Tengiz in the first quarter and in the UK due to planned maintenance last quarter. Production increases elsewhere added about 19,000 barrels per day.  

Turning to slide eight, production during the first half of the year was 2.66 million barrels per day. This was lower than our projection at the beginning of the year as a result of greater-than-expected operational downtime and the PSC and royalty effects of higher prices on net production. In the second half of this year, we expect production will average about 2.6 million barrels per day. This estimate includes a 90,000 barrel per day effect from the Empresa Mixta conversion in Venezuela, partially offset by production increases elsewhere in the portfolio. Despite the Empresa Mixta conversions our production growth items discussed at the March analyst meeting remains unchanged.  

Turning to slide nine, U.S. downstream net income rose by about $345 million between quarters led by stronger refinery margins. Margin effects of $400 million contributed favorably to earnings relative to the first quarter reflecting more robust refining margins particularly in the West. In the West, the A&S refining margins improved by $10.74 per barrel between periods, and in the East, the Gulf Coast slight heavy differential indicator rose by $11.48 per barrel. On the marketing side, improved aviation fuel margins and stronger seasonal asphalt profits also contributed to the higher downstream results.  

Refined product trade sales were down 4% between quarters due to a change in accounting for certain purchase and sales contracts which now requires the transactions to be netted for financial reporting. Absent the accounting rule change, trade sales volumes in the second quarter would have been up 3%. Higher operating expenses reduced earnings by $50 million, reflecting an increase in environmental reserves and higher plant maintenance activity at Pascagoula.  

Turning to slide 10, international downstream earnings of $444 million were higher than the first quarter's by about 75 million. Stronger refining and marketing margins particularly in Asia-Pacific and Europe resulted in a positive variance between periods of $240 million. In refining, increased demand coupled with the industry's heavier maintenance activity pushed margins higher. The Brent margin climbed $1.53 per barrel and the Dubai cracking margin rose by $4.56 per barrel. Lower marketing margins in most regions were more than offset by stronger margins in Europe. The swing in tax related items reduced earnings by about $60 million between quarters. Finally, the variance in other includes lower shipping and trading results as well as other miscellaneous items.  

Slide 11 shows chemical results were $94 million in the second quarter compared to $153 million in the first quarter. Olefins were down about $60 million primarily due to lower ethylene margins and volumes. Polyethylene results were also lower due to a decline in sales margins. The improvement in earnings related to additives was mainly attributable to higher sales volumes and margins.  

Slide 12 covers all other. Second-quarter results show a positive variance from the prior quarter largely due to gains from the redemption of the Company's investment in Dynegy's preferred stock reflected in the P&L businesses bar. And the gain from the retirement of about $1.5 billion of Unocal debt included in other. Absent the gain on the debt retirement, the other segments net charges would have fallen within the range of our standard quarterly guidance, that is 160 to $200 million excluding Dynegy.  

That completes our brief analysis for the quarter and now I will turn it back to Dave.  

DAVE O'REILLY: Thank you, Steve. Now let me briefly recap our strategic progress in recent months beginning with the activities on slide 13. These include in Angola the production of first crude oil from the offshore Lobito Field, which together with Benguela, Belize and Tomboco, comprised our 31% owned and operated BBLT development. The project was on time and on budget and ramping up.  

In the UK, the production of first crude oil from our 85% owned and operated Area C the project in the Captain Field. In Azerbaijan, the participation in the first crude oil shipment through the BTC pipeline in which we hold an 8.9% interest and in Brazil we announced our commitment to develop the 52% owned and operated Frade Field, our first deepwater development project in Brazil.  

Continuing on slide 14, in Nigeria we had an oil discovery in the offshore oil prospecting license 214 in which our interest is 20%. In Australia, we made a natural gas discovery at Chandon-1 in the Greater Gorgon development area. Finally in Vietnam, the signing of a 30-year production sharing contract with Vietnam Oil and Gas Corporation for Block 122 (Correction: Misspoken as 22) occurred.  

We also announced several strategic initiatives to enhance the development of our alternative fuels portfolio, including the creation of a bio-fuels business unit, the completion of the acquisition of a 22% interest and Galveston Bay Biodiesel and a technology partnership with the Georgia Institute of Technology to pursue alternative fuel development and in particular biofuels.  

That concludes our prepared remarks. We now take your questions, one question per caller please, and we will try to wrap up at or before the top of the hour. So, Matt, if you would open the line for questions. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Doug Leggate, Citigroup.  

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Refining and marketing I'm a little confused I guess at what I thought was a fairly low number. Your comments about the U.S. suggests marketing margins were higher. Can you just break out the delta please, Steve, between quarters for marketing and maybe try and explain if you saw the capture rate and the strong margin environment as less than it would otherwise have been in previous quarters?  

STEVE CROWE: As we look at the refining and marketing variance, Doug, comparing the second to the first quarter we indicated that about $400 million -- it was about $400 million of margin improvement. Roughly speaking about 40 or so of that was attributable to marketing. I think inherent in your question and in doing your assessment of what the refining and marketing improvement should be quarter to quarter is based upon looking at indicative margins for refining and indicative industry margins for marketing.  

In the case of marketing for example where we give marketing margins in the West and in the East. In the West relative for motor gasoline relative to dealer tank wagon prices and in the East relative to Houston rack, you've got a mix effect of where the locations of our actual sales are. And you will get -- you can get some distortions relative to those industry indicative margins. So you have a location issue to grapple with and you also have a mix of products. Certainly in the eastern part of the United States where we source a preponderance of our motor gasoline from other than our refineries, their acquisition is based on market at the time.  

So it is possible that when you peer in and use indicative margins, you might otherwise assume that the domestic R&M for example would have been higher than we have reported.  

DOUG LEGGATE: Any hangover effects from hurricane costs or anything like that?  

STEVE CROWE: Fairly minimal. As we indicated in the release, we did continue to have but it was mainly upstream, some charges associated with repairs and maintenance as well as the abandonment provision that I mentioned. And there's a small part still that is associated with operations other than upstream but by comparison it is pretty small.  

DAVE O'REILLY: Steve, Dave here. Sorry, Doug, I guess is on the phone. We also did have -- incur expense related to hurricane preparations across the whole system in the second-quarter and we are very well prepared for the hurricane season. For example, purchasing and installing emergency generators strategically throughout our marketing regions and quite a number of temporary housing expenses that are incurred. Most of those are included in that $300 million but probably not all of them have been captured; the $300 million that we highlighted in the press release.  

STEVE CROWE: One other item and for the benefit of others in our press release and as we have been disclosing for the last several quarters in our SEC filings, effective on April 1, is an accounting change with how certain purchase and sales contracts are handled. It has an effect on the income statement of reducing the revenues and an exact offset on reducing purchases so there's no P&L effect but the volumes will change. And so you will note in our press release for example on the attachments, you can get the quantification of that as it relates to refined products but I would emphasize there is no P&L effect. This is simply a matter of netting rather than treating it on a gross basis. But it is something that the analyst community will need to factor into its models going forward. Thanks very much, Doug. May we have the next question?  

OPERATOR: Neil McMahon, Bernstein.  

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Just really going toward these abandonment costs, I was very surprised that it wasn't included within your interim update that such costs were coming. And are they related to the Typhoon Field which I believe -- or Typhoon Platform which I believe has been sunk over the last quarter? If that is the case, are you going to take any reserve write-down on that or what is the back-up or follow-up plan for that field? Thanks.  

DAVE O'REILLY: Neil, I will state that, this is Dave. We obviously would have liked to have this in our interim update but unfortunately the data was not available until the last few weeks. And as you know, we put our interim update out about end of the third week of June. The issue does not have a reserve effect. We have already accounted for that as best we could of course at the end of year. It has not really got a lot to do with Typhoon. This is to do with a more detailed subsurface analysis of the damaged facilities and wells that are going to be abandoned and the complexity and the costs incurred in basically fully and securely abandoning those facilities.  

It also meant analyzing the availability of insurance to cover those events and when the complete work was done, the plan filed with the MMS and approved by the MMS and the full understanding of what insurance was available to cover this, it became obvious that we just have had an exposure here that we had to take because it is an abandonment charge. So what we are reflecting here is that new information from the last few weeks that will secure those facilities but they -- it does not involve reserve write-down. It does not involve a charge or anything related to Typhoon. And with that, I guess as far as we know we have dealt with as much as we can possibly and appropriately account for at this time.  

NEIL MCMAHON: That is great detail. Just wanted to ask about Typhoon then. What at this stage, given the fact that you are ongoing with investigations and still concluding the costs, what should we look forward to on this field? Is there future of getting more oil out of that field at the moment?  

DAVE O'REILLY: There obviously is the potential to recover more. We're working on plans. We're working on plans to recover the fields that are economic to do so. And we have a multiyear plan that we will phase in over the next few years as we put it in our project queue. You will recall that we had about 300,000 barrels a day of production in the Gulf pre-Katrina, last August and we have said that this year we would achieve about 200,000 barrels a day. 25,000 to 30,000 barrels a day will probably not come back as associated with the permanent loss of production but the other 60,000 or 70,000 barrels a day we are still working on and we will continue to work on it. And if it is economical, we will continue to work at recovering it. So we have a plan, we can't commit to the details of that plan right now other than it is being worked.  

STEVE CROWE: For your benefit and others, I would just make a couple of other comments. As was the question with Doug, we do have ongoing repair and maintenance costs and the way that is accounted for is the expenses are taken as the costs are incurred. By contrast, an abandonment provision is something that once it is estimable and probable, you have a legal obligation to recognize it all at once. And we had had an abandonment provision associated with the damaged structures and wells and once we have been able to do the more detailed review of what we found to be far more mangled and more complicated than abandonment, we needed to have a larger provision net of insurance and that is why we booked it.  

Your point is well taken though. That effect is worth about $0.11 per share and likewise the analyst community is not in a good position to estimate the impact of the liftings pattern that I alluded to in my comments. That again is worth about $0.11. So that's a $0.22 swing which in my mind taking that into consideration, the community out there did a pretty good job, recognizing that those two items were not knowable from your perspective. Thanks very much, Neil, for your call.  

OPERATOR: Arjun Murti, Goldman Sachs.  

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: My question relates to your various biofuels related announcements. I was wondering if you could characterize order of magnitude investments you might be making over the next several years? I presume it is a relatively small amount in light of your overall spending. And then related to that, regarding ethanol, is your focus primarily on cellulosic and future technologies or would you have any interest in corn-based ethanol especially in light of the significant ethanol use in California? Thank you.  

DAVE O'REILLY: Arjun, a couple of points. The investments are relatively small. We are a major renewables producer but most of our investments in renewables are in geothermal and we spend a number of hundreds of millions of dollars a year investing in geothermal growth in Asia primarily in Indonesia and in the Philippines. Our investment in biofuels in the U.S. is relatively small. We are focused on what we call second-generation ethanol which is not the corn-based ethanol but the next generation which we hope will be the result of transforming some waste material or cheaper to grow material into biofuels. That is our area of focus in our research work so the money there is relatively small.  

Having said that with respect to California, we are working on a marketing program for E85 in collaboration with ethanol manufacturers and with the State of California. We are building some service stations in California and using California state automobiles and trucks as our sample. And the idea here is to test the efficacy of E85 in California because there is some concern in the state regulators mind's about the air pollution consequences of ethanol because it is more volatile. So we have an active program here which is small but it will lead us to a more realistic appraisal of E85.  

Having said all of that, 30% of our gasoline today around the United States has ethanol in it primarily 10% ethanol and we are as you rightly point out a big consumer of ethanol. I think we buy or consume about 5% of the ethanol that is produced in the United States. But our main focus is on testing the efficacy of E85 and second-generation ethanol in addition to the work we're doing on biodiesel. Relatively small in the near-term.  

ARJUN MURTI: That is really helpful. Thank you, David.  

OPERATOR: Bruce Lanni, A.G. Edwards.  

BRUCE LANNI, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: Good morning, Dave, Steve and Irene. Just a real quick question. I want to just get some further clarification on your production guidance because if I am correct wasn't it originally somewhere between 2.7 to 2.8 million barrels a day by year-end versus the 2.6? And in that context, does that mean that to account for that you are saying the PSCs and downtime make up the difference? Could you maybe go into that a little more deeply?  

DAVE O'REILLY: You are absolutely right. Our original guidance if we go back to that chart, chart number eight, was for 2.7 to 2.8. In the first half of the year we achieved 2.66, about 40,000 barrels a day below the lower end of that band; 25,000 barrels a day of that is PSC effects because our assumption for the pricing for the year for the purpose of calculating the volume at that time was $55 based on the volume, our assessment at the beginning of the year. So the difference between $55 and $70 or so explains 25,000 barrels a day. And then we have some operational downtime primarily in the first quarter in places like Tengiz which we discussed at the end of the first quarter.  

In the second half of course, we're going to feel the impact of this conversion of Empresa Mixta which takes 90,000 barrels a day of OSA, operating service agreement, production out of our portfolio and leaves us with about 30,000 barrels a day or so of equity crude in its place. The financial impact of that is immaterial to Chevron because we are going to a higher margin but lower volume amount of crude there. But it does affect our volumes. So the volumetric effect here is much bigger than any of the financial effects and now we feel our second half production with that 90,000 barrels a day impact will be about 2.6 million barrels a day as our production ramps up, continues to ramp up in places like Angola which is in the process of increasing production and some of the other growth activities in our portfolio. So that is how we see things today related to the guidance that we gave you in the analyst meeting earlier this year.  

BRUCE LANNI: So Dave, am I to infer then from your second half numbers where you have the PSC royalty effects of 25,000 barrels a day, are you now assuming that the second half oil price is going to be $70 rather than $50?  

DAVE O'REILLY: We just made a calculation that the price is what it is today and we haven't made any assumption about it going up or down. So we are assuming $70 and this is calculated on a $70 basis. We had to calculate it on some basis so we decided to stick with what we had experience in the first half of the year.  

BRUCE LANNI: That is perfect. Thanks a lot, guys.  

OPERATOR: Nicki Decker, Bear Stearns.  

NICKI DECKER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning. My question is on the international upstream. On your variance analysis in the other category, you talked about three impacts, the favorable FX and tax items and operating costs which included operating expense. Can you itemize those items?  

STEVE CROWE: We typically don't break out the specifics of the other for exact quantification but I will give you a general direction here. On slide six for everyone's benefit, there was a $42 million favorable variance between quarters. You can determine from the press release comparing this press release and last, that the foreign exchange effect is $27 million favorable. The tax benefit effect between periods is a little more than twice that and offsetting those to come down to the net 42 is our higher operating expenses in the 50 to $60 million range. And a smaller increase in exploration expense after-tax in that segment.  

So those are the three main components, again favorable in terms of tax and foreign exchange and clawing some of that back in terms of operating expense and exploration costs.  

NICKI DECKER: That is real helpful, Steve, thank you. Are those operating costs -- will they be ongoing, the higher costs?  

STEVE CROWE: We are seeing increases in our cost structure so in all likelihood that will be the case. But again, the amounts that I referred to were comparisons between quarters so directionally I think your presumption would be correct.  

IRENE MELITAS, IR, CHEVRON: And includes such things as turnaround costs as well and maintenance so those would not be repeated from quarter to quarter necessarily.  

NICKI DECKER: Can you quantify that, Irene, what portion of the 50 to 60 this quarter that would be?  

IRENE MELITAS: Maybe about a third.  

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Nikki. May we have the next call please?  

OPERATOR: Mark Flannery, Credit Suisse First Boston.  

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: I would like to look forward to say 2008 specifically with the Escravos Project. There's some news coming out that you may be getting some delays and/or changes in the cost structures out there. Could you just comment on what you are seeing with that project? And more broadly do you guys still expect roughly 3 million barrels a day of production in 2008?  

STEVE CROWE: Let me address the first question on our projection. As I had mentioned in my earlier remarks we are still holding to the guidance that we had given in March, Mark, that we will see a greater than 3% growth in our OEG production from 2005 to 2010. Even allowing for the impact of the changed structure in Venezuela we think that is still a good guidance. Clearly as we get later in the year and review our plans again for the analyst meeting in the early part of next year, we will update that guidance but at this stage that is still an appropriate assessment.  

DAVE O'REILLY: Just to be very specific, whether 3 million in 2008 is -- I don't think I want to be pinpointed to that. I think our 3% per year for that period of time from '05 to 2010 is what Steve is saying and that is the guidance that we gave I think in March. On your other question on Escravos, the GTL -- I think you are referring to the GTL project, is that I correct?  

MARK FLANNERY: Yes, that's right.  

DAVE O'REILLY: That project is underway. The site there have been done. There have been some delays there and there have been some concerns expressed -- I have seen in the press by reports on the part of one of the contractors. However, we anticipate that that project is going to continue to progress. It is making progress. I think our project completion date there is 2009. I think you might have referred to a different date, I'm not quite sure. But it is underway and it has begun including major equipment fabrication and site preparation. So this is not a theoretical one, this is actually in full swing and it will be completed.  

MARK FLANNERY: Okay, great. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.  

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK CAPITAL: Folks, good morning. I noticed on the wires a story relating to the fact that you're offering your interest in the Nerefco refinery for sale. I am hoping that you can either confirm or disaffirm that. And at the same time address the question of a broader withdrawal or divestiture of the European downstream given the fact that the potential sale in Nerefco would further reduce critical mass in a region where that might have been a question even before such sale?  

DAVE O'REILLY: Your observation is a good one. Let me clear up this issue for a while. We do not view Europe downstream as a core part of our business. And we have a sale underway of our interest in Hydro Texaco which is the marketing operations in Scandinavia which should be complete by the end of the year. We are entertaining offers for our interest in Nerefco and our marketing operations in the Benelux countries which -- and there is data room and there is activity underway currently on that front.  

However Pembroke refinery is a different kettle of fish. The Pembroke refinery is actually integrated into our Atlantic basin strategy and a considerable portion of its production actually is targeted to North America and so we view that as a part of our strategy. So just to clear it up, we are not planning to expand in Europe. We are decreasing our exposure there. We think this is a good time to do that. We think the market is suitably positioned for us to do that but Pembroke is an important part of our portfolio.  

MARK GILMAN: If I could just follow up, UK marketing, Dave, where does that fit?  

DAVE O'REILLY: UK marketing we have already done quite a bit to move that to third parties. So we announced a deal last year with one of the retailers in the area so we basically have reduced our investment substantially in UK marketing. So while we are supplying some of that market, it is very regional and it helps to balance the output of the refinery so that we can swing appropriately toward the Atlantic basin with some base offtake that is local in that market.  

MARK GILMAN: Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: Daniel Barcelo, Banc of America Securities.  

DANIEL BARCELO, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Just following on the downstream theme here, earlier in the year you bought a 5% stake in Reliance Petroleum. Just to know if you could give a little bit of a business and strategy update there? If you are still considering the option you have to increase your stake further? And then just following on what Mark's question was, is this signaling any portfolio shift also away from -- you answered on Europe. Maybe you could comment the same way in terms of Latin America building toward a stronger base in your Southeast Asia position?  

DAVE O'REILLY: Let me start with the strategy. Our Asia strategy, we have been focused on Asia downstream and focused very specifically on it since Chevron and Texaco combined in 2001 and it is clearly a core area for our Company. In the region we are expanding and modernizing the refinery in Korea. We increased our interest in the Singapore refinery from a third to a half about 18 months ago. We have also a large and modern refinery in Thailand and our interest in India is just a continuation of the pursuit of that strategy.  

We did acquire a 5% interest in May in this new export refinery that is being built in Jamnagar. It is 580,000 barrels a day refinery. It will come on stream late in 2008. We have 5% and our agreement will permit us to increase our interest to 29%. And concurrent with that, supply rights and product offtake. It is an export zone. It's geared to the export market and we believe it will be the first big refinery to come on in Asia that will still come on in a time frame where the margins are strong. So we like it strategically and we like it economically.  

We have made good progress with Reliance. They are a good partner. We are also working with them on pursuing opportunities in the upstream in the gas business in India in the region and as we mentioned in the press release, that went out at the time that we agreed to take that 5%. So clearly that is an area of focus for us.  

In Latin America, we are a very strong marketer in some areas of Latin America. We're not in the refining business there. We are focused in places like Brazil. We have exited however some of the markets particularly in the Andean region where we didn't think we had a competitive advantage and didn't see the economic outlook. Recently during the quarter, we exited Ecuador for example, and we have been systematically strengthening our focus in the Caribbean and in Central America and in Brazil in that area.  

So a big focus on Asia, a big focus on the West Coast of the U.S., less focus in Latin America.  

DANIEL BARCELO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers.  

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good morning, everyone. Dave and Steve and Irene, I have two questions and a comment if I could? One is just want to get a quick number, what is the environmental charge and also the actual underlifting impact for the quarter? As well as the $200 million of the UK tax onetime charge that you're going to do in next quarter, how much of them is related to the deferred tax?  

STEVE CROWE: Let me take that question, Paul. Let me start with the second one first. As I had mentioned, we think we are going to be booking an approximate $200 million catch-up charge in the third quarter. Roughly 170 of that pertains to the deferred tax and the balance of that refers to the first half of the year's current tax. 140, excuse me.  

PAUL CHENG: 140 or 170?  

STEVE CROWE: I misspoke, it is $140 million for the deferred tax. It is running approximately $40 million a quarter for the current tax.  

As to your other question, as we had shown on slide six, the impact of the shift in liftings between first and second quarters was worth an approximate $240 million. The swing in liftings between the first and second quarter was roughly 80,000 barrels a day and I think from your perspective, Paul, you can think of that -- it is an approximate equal amount of underlift in the second quarter compared to the amount of overlift in the first quarter. Going forward at the end of June, we are essentially in balance however.  

PAUL CHENG: How about the environmental charge in the U.S. R&M?  

STEVE CROWE: An incremental charge in the --.  

PAUL CHENG: No, the environmental. I think you had indicated that the higher operating expense is partly because of the provision for the environmental charges.  

STEVE CROWE: Let me see here. It is not jumping at me right away.  

DAVE O'REILLY: In the great scheme of things, it is not that material but it is measurable.  

PAUL CHENG: And if I could just one last question and a comment. The question is that for Dave, are you concerned that should the oil industry as a whole may have underspend the R&D effort? If we look at the spending by your Company and the rest of the industry on R&D as percent to whether profit or sales volumes or compared to other industry seems to be a pretty low percentage. And is that a possibility that because of that underspend that over time you will reduce your competitive edge and particularly in light of more of the national oil companies enter the scene of competition?  

DAVE O'REILLY: Actually I think it is the other way around. We actually have been maintaining a considerable focus on R&D and given the commodity and nature of the business and the volatility, I don't think that R&D as a percent of sales is a good measure. I think R&D as a percent of total capital or some other metric is probably even more appropriate and that is something that we monitor.  

You'll recall that we had a very in-depth presentation on our philosophy and our areas of focus on research that Don Paul gave at lunchtime following the analyst meeting in March in New York City and we have a very unique model. We are very proud of it. We have an integrated technology company. It is unique. It manages the whole breadth of our business from the reservoir to the gas pump. It is a combination of focus on certain areas of proprietary research which we guard very carefully and focus a lot of our effort on as well as leveraging research where we don't have all of the expertise in one place for example in biofuels. So we have a good combination of proprietary and leveraged research and it is a tremendous area of focus and I believe that for companies like ours, it is a competitive advantage relatives to NOCs who in general do not have the same level of experience in this area. There are exceptions of course but in general I think that is a competitive advantage.  

PAUL CHENG: Very good, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Jennifer Rowland, JPMorgan.  

JENNIFER ROWLAND, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I'm just wondering if you could comment on the integration with Unocal and in particular your ability to retain key personnel from Unocal and also where you are in the synergy capture?  

DAVE O'REILLY: Let's see. We are very far along. We have completed basically all of the integration including all of the essential back office like financial systems and human resource systems so we're very pleased with the integration. We have captured 80% of the $325 million synergy as of midyear and the rest of the tale has to do with implementing these detailed back office activities that almost all of which is captured by the end of a year. So we are essentially there.  

We're very pleased with the performance of the assets. They are at or ahead of plan. We're very pleased with the exploration performance. We've already had two discoveries on Unocal leases in the Gulf of Mexico including Knotty Head and Big Foot and of course we have been sidetracking Knotty Head and making I think good progress there.  

On the people front, I think we have done well. Has it been perfect? No. In fact like most companies, there is a tremendous demand for people and it is not just a matter of demand for Unocal people, it's demand for people who are former Chevron or former Texaco or former Getty or whatever. So we have the same demands that I think everybody else feels. Having said that though, we have gained in terms of population of technical people this year. We have got a net gain but it is something that I think is something that we have to manage very carefully and one that we are focused on because it is critical to our success as it is for many other companies.  

We look at our business as being from the outside it looks like it is very capital intensive but like every business, it all revolves around people and the effectiveness of people and their ability to perform and contribute. Very, very pleased with the performance of Unocal and of course on a value basis, transactions today are occurring at approximately twice the value per -- pick your metric -- compared to what we acquired Unocal for last year.  

STEVE CROWE: Jennifer, in addition to all of the business value that Dave was alluding to, when you see our filing which will be next week for the second-quarter Q, while we're closing off on the purchase accounting for the transaction itself, and you will see some final information in the footnotes just for your benefit and the investment community. So goodwill will have been finalized and the allocation for the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.  

Thanks very much. Maybe we can take one more question.  

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, Benchmark.  

MARK GILMAN: Dave, real quick, can you give us an update on the Jack production test?  

DAVE O'REILLY: Everyone asks about Jack. I really can't. I can tell you that the production test is complete. It is being evaluated. We have a number of partners that are involved in it and until the technical work is complete, we just can't really disclose anything. I'm hoping that by the end of the year we will have something say about Jack. But thanks for asking.  

MARK GILMAN: Thanks a lot.  

DAVE O'REILLY: I would like to thank you all for participating in the call today. Should you have any other questions Irene and the team here are ready to respond. And I appreciate everyone's participation and thank you and I look forward to hearing you at the next call or seeing you at the next meeting. Thank you.  

STEVE CROWE: Goodbye.  

IRENE MELITAS: Goodbye.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's second-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect. Have a good day.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
gntdis : Natural Disasters/Catastrophes | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | grisk : Risk News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060811e27s0013v
  


 HD
 Q1  2006  Chevron  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
7,248 words
   PD
28 April 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.  

I will now turn the conference over to Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Steve Crowe. Please go ahead, sir.  

   TD
STEVE CROWE, VP, CFO, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Welcome to Chevron's first-quarter earnings conference call. Joining me on the call today is Irene Melitas, our Manager of Investor Relations. Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2006. I will refer to the slides that were e-mailed to you this morning and that are available on the Web.  

Before we get started, please be reminded that today's presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. We ask that you review the Safe Harbor statement on slide two.  

I will begin with slide three, which provides an overview of our financial performance. The Company reported results of $4 billion or $1.80 per diluted share for the quarter. Our results were up nearly 50% compared to the first quarter of 2005, mainly due to higher commodity prices but also helped by volume additions from the Unocal acquisition. First-quarter results were down about 4% from the fourth quarter 2005, which Irene will detail shortly.  

There were no special items for the quarter. Return on capital employed over the trailing four quarters was 24%. The balance sheet continues to reflect our company's financial strength and flexibility. The debt-to-capital ratio at the end of the quarter was 16%. Stock repurchases in the first quarter totaled $1 billion, reflecting an accelerated buyback pace.  

Irene will now take us through the quarterly comparisons. Irene?  

IRENE MELITAS, IR MANAGER, CHEVRON CORPORATION: Thanks, Steve. My remarks compare results of the first quarter 2006 to the fourth quarter 2005. Bear in mind that our earnings release compared first quarter 2006 to the same quarter a year ago.  

Turning to slide four, net income was about 150 million lower in the first quarter. Starting with the left side of the chart, stronger crude prices improved upstream results, but were largely offset by the effects of lower natural gas prices in the US. The negative margin variance in downstream reflects weaker worldwide refining and marketing margins, particularly on the US West Coast, Asia-Pacific and Europe.  

First-quarter earnings benefited from increased volumes from higher international upstream liftings and higher net production in the US, resulting from the ongoing restoration of shut-in volumes from last year's storm activity. In the downstream, higher refinery input and volumes of high-value products in the US were partially offset by declines in Asia and Europe. Earnings from chemicals improved on lower operating costs and higher sales volumes. The residual other bar is the net of everything else.  

Our first-quarter earnings of 4 billion were adversely impacted by the lingering effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which reduced our results by almost 300 million, compared to about $700 million in the fourth quarter. The impact primarily reflects lost profit opportunity from curtailed oil and gas production.  

Slide five summarizes the results of our US upstream earnings, which were essentially flat between quarters. Higher liquids realizations benefited earnings by $35 million. The $2.12 per barrel increase for crude between quarters was less than the rise in industry benchmark prices. While quarterly average prices for WTI improved by $3.29 per barrel, the Gulf of Mexico benchmark trade month prices, which are on a lagged basis, declined by about $1.35 per barrel. The increase in San Joaquin Valley heavy oil was also lower than the increase in spot WTI.  

Lower natural gas realizations resulted in a negative $250 million profit effect. Our average realizations declined $2.76 per thousand cubic feet, less than the average decline in bid-week prices, reflecting our regional production mix. Storm recovery volumes more than offset natural fuel declines and the effects of two fewer producing days and benefited earnings by $50 million. Lower operating expense favorably impacted earnings by about 100 million and was generally attributable to lower storm-related expenditures and third-party fuel and steams costs. Included in other are higher natural gas trading margins and more favorable FAS 133 results, along with other miscellaneous items.  

Turning to slide six, international upstream earnings for the quarter were over $200 million higher than the fourth quarter's earnings. Foreign exchange effects, particularly related to Thailand and the UK, negatively impacted profits. Higher realizations improved earnings by about $250 million and were largely attributable to the rise in liquid prices. Liquid realizations rose by $4.87 per barrel, in line with the comparable increase of spot Brent prices. The positive variance in volume effect between quarters was driven by higher liftings, particularly in Europe. The other variance bar includes the net effect of various items, including tax adjustments in both periods.  

Slide seven summarizes the change in worldwide oil equivalent production, including volumes produced from oil sands in Canada and production under an operating service agreement in Venezuela. Volumes were down by about 1% between quarters. US production increased 33,000 barrels per day between quarters on the restoration of volumes shut in due to the storms in the Gulf of Mexico, which were only partially offset by normal field declines. Storm-related activity curtailed this quarter's production by about 80,000 barrels per day, compared to 140,000 barrels per day in the fourth quarter.  

Outside the US, oil and gas production decreased 72,000 barrels per day between quarters. Excluding the effect of cost recovery volumes under certain production sharing agreements and storms in Australia, production was 2% lower. The decline was primarily due to downtime at Tengiz for maintenance and Indonesia, reflecting inventory storage movements that affects our net production figures. These were partly offset by increases in the UK following planned maintenance activity in the fourth quarter.  

Turning to slide eight, US downstream net income declined by $175 million [Misstated as $170 million on call] between quarters on lower realized margins, which were only somewhat offset by volume and other benefits. Margin effects of $325 million contributed negatively to earnings relative to the fourth quarter, reflecting weaker refining margins in the East, lower marketing margins on the West Coast and unfavorable $70 million swing in final pricing adjustments for long-haul crudes.  

On the Gulf Coast, benchmark refining margins were down significantly relative to the fourth quarter. The Gulf Coast light-heavy differential indicator fell by $5.40 per barrel between periods. In the West, the ANS refining margin improved by $2.32 dollar per barrel. However, market mix effects adversely impacted our actual results. In the West, the L.A. Mogas DTW to Spot Indicator margin dropped by almost $8 per barrel, as the quarter saw strong motor gasoline inventory drawdowns causing increases in spot product prices. In the East, the Houston Rack to Spot Indicator margin declined by roughly $1.60 per barrel, driven by the decline in rack prices following hurricane-related disruptions of the fourth quarter.  

Higher refinery input volumes and high-value product production, both at Pasagoula and El Segundo, drove the improvement in volume effects following fourth-quarter production downtime. Refined product trade sales were up 6% between quarters, led by higher motor gasoline and gas/oil sales. The variance in other includes the favorable impact of lower storm-related costs, lower fuel costs and other miscellaneous items.  

Turning to slide nine, first-quarter international downstream earnings of $370 million were lower than the fourth-quarter's by about 50 million. Weaker refining and marketing margins, particularly in Asia-Pacific and Europe, resulted in a negative variance between periods of $180 million. In refining, rising crude costs outpaced increases in light product prices. The Brent Margin fell by almost $2.70 per barrel, and the Dubai Cracking Margin dropped by about $1.60 per barrel.  

Lower marketing margins in most regions also contributed to the weaker results, reflecting rising product costs. Refining product and marketing sales volume effects resulted in a net negative variance between quarters of $20 million, reflecting an already well-supplied market in Asia-Pacific and operational issues at our Pembroke refinery. The difference in operating expense benefited earnings by about $95 million between quarters, and reflected the absence of certain fourth-quarter turnaround costs and charges associated with the fourth quarter's Buncefield terminal incident in the UK. The variance in other includes favorable tax-related swings and other miscellaneous items.  

Slide ten shows chemical results were $153 million in the first quarter, compared to $71 million in the fourth quarter. Chevron Phillips Chemical Company's stronger performance for the quarter was primarily due to declines in operating expenses and higher sales volumes. The improvement in earnings related to additives was mainly due to a combination of higher sales volumes and margins and lower operating expenses.  

Slide 11 covers all other. First-quarter results show a negative variance from the prior quarter, mainly due to the absence of the Company's share of gain recorded on the sale of Dynegy's midstream gas business, which is reflected in the P&L business segment. Our first-quarter interim update guidance for this segment called for net quarterly charges in the range of $160 to $200 million excluding Dynegy. Actual net charges for the quarter were within this guidance.  

That completes our brief analysis of the quarter. Steve, back to you.  

STEVE CROWE: Thanks, Irene. And now, a brief recap of our strategic progress in recent months. I will begin with our upstream activities on slide 12, where we have announced the successful addition of several acreage positions that enhance our exploration and development portfolio. These include the acquisition of five heavy oil leases in the Athabasca region of northern Alberta in Canada, covering 75,000 acres with prospects for significant volumes of oil; exploration rights to a large offshore block located in the Carnarvon Basin, offshore Western Australia and adjacent to the company-led Gorgon project; six blocks awarded to us in the 19th Norwegian licensing round, located in the Nordkapp East Basin in Norwegian Barents Sea; and two exploration concessions in the Gulf of Thailand, one located near existing Chevron fields.  

Turning to slide 13, in downstream we recently announced the purchase of a 5% interest in Reliance Petroleum Limited, a company formed by Reliance Industries to construct, own and operate a 580,000 barrel per day refinery on the West Coast of India. The refinery will be the world's sixth-largest. The agreement includes a provision which grants Chevron the right to increase its equity interest in Reliance Petroleum to 29% in the future. Chevron has also signed two memoranda of understanding with Reliance Industries to jointly pursue other downstream and upstream business opportunities in this key growth market.  

And in corporate, we increased cash flow to our shareholders through our dividends and share repurchases. Earlier this week, we announced a 15.6% dividend increase, raising our overall quarterly dividend to $0.52 per share. This represents the 19th consecutive annual increase. And as I mentioned at the beginning of the call, share repurchases totaled $1 billion for the first quarter. Our policy is to increase dividends and maintain a share repurchase program that is consistent, with sustainable earnings and cash flow. Our recent actions are a consequence of our confidence we have in our company's prospects.  

Well, that concludes our prepared remarks. We will now take your questions. One question per caller, please. We will plan to wrap up at or before the top of the hour. Please open the lines for questions.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Doug Terreson, Morgan Stanley.  

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Congratulations, guys, on your results. During the past year, maybe 18 months or so, cost for manpower and materials and other things that are used in a new energy infrastructure have experienced some inflation. And that's true whether it relates to the upstream or the downstream project. And on this point, while I realize that the record speaks for itself for the Reliance guys at Jamnagar during the past decade. I wanted to see if you would highlight some of the financial or design advantages that may be present for the proposed new plant, in that it appears to be extremely competitive on a variety of comparable economic measures as it relates to investment cost for the plant.  

STEVE CROWE: Well, the refinery, as I mentioned, in which we are taking an initial 5% interest, or the partnership in which we are taking an initial 5% interest, will be a 580,000 barrel a day refinery. There's a companion refinery that Reliance Industries, Ltd. owns in the adjacent area. It's somewhat larger, but this new refinery will be able to run a heavier crude slate.  

The new refinery is projected to come onstream in late 2008, and part of the attractiveness is that their experience in constructing and operating refineries has been excellent, and they will be able to accelerate the design and construction process appreciably, relative to an operator that didn't have such a good experience in that same area. So many of the engineering designs and contractors, I believe, that we used in the first refinery will be used in the second. As a consequence, it will be coming onstream fairly promptly.  

The arrangement that we have with Reliance calls for these other memoranda that we have signed with them. And if the discussions that will occur pursuant to these memoranda of understanding lead to definitive agreements, then Chevron will have the opportunity to increase its equity stake in Reliance to 29%. Some of these other agreements call for, in the downstream, the provision of feedstocks to the refinery in excess of our equity ownership, and also for the offtake of products, since this will be an export refinery that can then move into appropriate locations including the Chevron supply value chain. There will also be negotiations as part of the memoranda of understanding to find opportunities for Reliance Industries, Ltd. and Chevron to cooperate in the upstream side of the business as well. The refinery does look quite attractive if you look at the cost on a daily barrel comparison to grassroots and even brownroot refineries that have occurred from data that I have seen from the API.  

So I think we're very pleased to establish this relationship with Reliance and to really have this option to expand a position in the downstream in a very important and growing market. So I couldn't agree more with you; I think this is an excellent opportunity for Chevron. And we look forward to a very productive relationship with our new partner.  

OPERATOR: Neil McMahon, Sanford Bernstein.  

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I just would like to dive in a bit more into the upstream side of the business. I appreciate the refinery is a great way to get an export market or an export chain going into the US and around the world. But I'm actually quite interested in the upstream positions Reliance has developed over the last few years, and their exploration discoveries that they have made as well. How much in terms of the MOU, maybe you can go into this in a bit more detail in terms of how locked in is it? Potentially, you could participate in a joint venture with Reliance or, indeed, is there any idea about spinning off their upstream division and for you to take a stake in that? Basically, I'm trying to get a feel for how much of their existing discoveries or exploration acreage you will be able to tie in with them and, therefore, really get a significant foothold in India, more than just refining.  

STEVE CROWE: It's a fair question, but it's a little premature for us to discuss the type of things that you were alluding to. We have agreed to discuss collaborating with Reliance on opportunities in the upstream sector, but the exact parameters have not been decided. So, while some of the things you are alluding to may come to pass, we're just simply not in a position at this point to speak very definitively. Over this next period of time, as these understandings in the memorandum of understanding take the form of definitive agreements, we can really addressed the type of thing that you are alluding to. But at this juncture, it's just a bit premature.  

OPERATOR: Bruce Lanni, A.G. Edwards.  

BRUCE LANNI, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: Congratulations on the quarter. Just quickly, in the news release, you commented on the Unocal transaction and stated that the acquisition, the economics even looked more favorable. Can you provide any more color on that, and exactly where you are in the timing of the integration process?  

STEVE CROWE: Well, let me talk about it in a couple of different ways. At the time we announced the deal a year ago, we commented that the transaction would be economic from a cost-of-capital perspective. And certainly, with the events that have transpired, with respect to commodity prices in the last many months and looking forward certainly in the next few years, the economics are even more attractive, given just the movement of crisis.  

But we are very pleased with the access and the way they have performed. We have not been disappointed. And we are right on track with the integration of the two companies. In fact, just from a financial point of view, we will be integrating this month all of the North America Unocal operations into Chevron systems. So we're going to lose some capability of separately identifying Unocal from Chevron.  

But the integration is going on very smoothly, and I think it reflects our experience, having gone through the Chevron and Texaco merger just a few years ago. On the synergy side of things, you recall we announced at the time of the deal $325 million of synergy opportunities. Those are tracking right on. As we had mentioned at our analyst meeting last month, about 60% of that has been captured on a run rate basis at the end of 2005, and about 80% here in the middle of 2006. So we see an end in sight, and that will be well-received.  

About 45% of the synergies are in the upstream and gas business, a little over 20% in the technical side and services, and then about 35% or so in the corporate side. We have been integrating the people, and certainly have found that the Unocal employees bring a lot to the Chevron organization. At the time of the transaction, there were about 6300 or so Unocal employees, and we will probably see 5200, 5300 of them coming forward with the Company when all is said and done, by the end of this year and next.  

But, as mentioned at the analyst meeting last month, in addition to the synergies, which are mostly cost-related, we're also seeing tremendous benefits in the value creation side for drillings and completions, as we bring the best of the two companies together. We're seeing additional optionality in transportation routes out of the Caspian area with Unocal's interests in the pipeline. And we're also seeing, as advertised, a lot of optionality in our global gas business with the two companies coming together in Southeast Asia.  

So we are very optimistic as to this transaction. And were it to be done today, it would be much more expensive than it was a year ago. So we are very pleased and all of the things we had anticipated are coming in.  

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, The Benchmark Company.  

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: I have a question about CPC and the Tengiz expansion. It's beginning to look as if the expansion at the field level is going to come on before there can be any Russian-approved expansion of the pipeline. Can you give me an idea whether CPC is running full as we speak, and what the roughly incremental transportation cost will run on the additional Tengiz volumes if, in fact, alternate transportation routes have to be pursued?  

STEVE CROWE: I don't have those specific numbers, but as far as I know, CPC is running full. And as the projects in TCO, the Tengiz fields come onstream, we will have to look and are looking at alternate routes for moving the crude to market. As to the incremental difference in transportation costs for these alternate routes in relation to CPC, we will have to get back to you off-line. But it's a fair question, and we will cycle back to you.  

OPERATOR: Nicki Decker, Bear Stearns.  

NICKI DECKER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: You talked about accelerating the pace of your buyback program. Is this the pace that we can expect to see for the coming quarters? And could we expect additional authorization next year?  

STEVE CROWE: Just for background for everyone, the first program that was authorized and commenced on April of 2004 resulted in $2.1 billion worth of Chevron shares being acquired in 2004. Last year, we acquired $3 billion worth of Chevron shares, and in November of that year, the first $5 billion program that had been authorized by our Board was completed. They authorized a follow-on program of similar size and duration that we commenced in December of last year. We consciously had the Board authorize us a dollar amount and a timeframe so we can adjust the pace during the course of the period authorized to fit the circumstances of the Company's cash flows and the market.  

Certainly, given the conditions that we have in the first quarter, $1 billion seemed to be a very reasonable amount. It was about a third higher than the average quarterly pace during 2005. And it's not unreasonable that if conditions stay as they are today, that that pace might move forward for the balance of the year. If that pace does move forward, we will be completing a program early next year. Here again, though, I don't want to mislead you. We could move it up and move faster or we could slow it down, depending on conditions.  

OPERATOR: Jennifer Rowland, JPMorgan.  

JENNIFER ROWLAND, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I wonder if you could just give us an update on where things stand with your production in the Gulf of Mexico, and whether or not your estimate for volumes that may not get recovered has changed at all?  

STEVE CROWE: That's a good question. Let me give a little background for those on the phone. When the second of the storms came through last year, by the time it got to October 1, our Gulf of Mexico production was about 60,000 barrels a day, OEG. And our capacity prior to the hurricanes was around 320,000 barrels a day. From that low point on October 1, we then started ramping up our production as oil that had been shut in came back on. Much of it was shut in because of infrastructure problems. The average production during the fourth quarter was 160,000 barrels a day, and here in the first quarter, as we have noted, it's about 200,000 barrels a day.  

Data that I've seen recently for the month of April looks like we're moving a little bit above that level, maybe in the neighborhood of 215,000 barrels a day or so. Our expectation is, as we bring on production that had been shut in, it will be largely offset, though, by normal field declines that will occur during the year. So, on average, probably for 2006, we're looking at about 200,000 barrels a day.  

What you need to keep in mind is, from that pre-storm level, the decline rate was going to be pretty steep, regardless. Our current thinking is from that pre-storm levels, we probably have about 20,000 barrels a day that has been permanently lost, simply because it is uneconomic to bring back on. So that looks to be the pattern as we see it right now, Jennifer, and I hope that helps.  

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Citigroup.  

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: My question is on disposal, Steve. I don't want to harp back to much about the Unocal acquisition, but when you did the deal, I think you had suggested somewhere around $2 billion of disposals. And you promptly did that in Canada, or I guess Unocal did. The strip price, however, was substantially below where it is now. And my question really is, are you done with disposals? Are you tempted to high-grade any further with the current oil price environment? And is there anymore high-grading to be done within the Unocal portfolio itself?  

STEVE CROWE: Your recitation of the facts are correct. At the time of the transaction being announced, we gave an indication that we thought we would sell about $2 billion worth of assets. With the sale of Northrock Westfall in Canada, about 1.7 to 1.8 was achieved.  

We are continuously looking at our operations as to assets to acquire and assets to divest, whether they be legacy Unocal or legacy Chevron, for that matter. And at this time, most of assets that we have seen from the Unocal side look to fit in very well with our operations. So we don't anticipate any major divestments that we're inclined to announce at this juncture. But we are always looking at our portfolio, adding things when it's economic to do so, organically or otherwise, and disposing of assets when we feel it will attract more value than it would be from attaining it ourselves.  

Philosophically, you recall a couple of years ago when we described the Chevron portfolio -- again, this was before Unocal -- we characterized some assets as being strategically or core and others as being non-core. Being non-core didn't necessarily mean that they would be sold, but rather that they would not draw an inordinate amount of capital, and they would be retained if we felt that they were worth more to be owned and operated than to be sold to another party. In all instances, our decisions are based on economics and not based on any financial metrics underpinning the appearances of gain on loss. Thanks for the question.  

OPERATOR: Michael Young, Fidelity Investments.  

MICHAEL YOUNG, ANALYST, FIDELITY INVESTMENTS: The question is to provide an update on your most recent conversations with Venezuela, particularly with respect to potentially higher royalty rates on the heavy oil project. And also, could you quantify the amount of the tax claim settlement in the first quarter?  

STEVE CROWE: The tax situation in Venezuela has been in the press for a number of months. Some of the information is accurate, and much of it isn't. But on March 9th of this year, the Venezuela tax agency proposed an oil reform tax. And the proposed reform could increase the current tax rate from 34% to 50% for all of the extra heavy oil crude projects in the Orinoco Belt.  

The reform must be first approved by the Finance Minister and then submitted to the National Assembly for discussion and approval. It's way too early to speculate about what will happen and what the impact of that will be, particularly if it entails any conversions, as it had been for the lighter oil projects to the mix companies. But having said that, if you were to simply try to get a handle on the tax implications of going from 34 to 50%, Hamaca's earnings are reported separately in Chevron's 10-K, and it's relatively easy to estimate the ongoing impact of the tax increase from 34 to 50%. So that just takes a few clicks on the calculator, and you would be able to determine that. But again, I would like to emphasize it's way too early to speculate on what might happen with respect to extra heavy oil.  

OPERATOR: William Ferrer, W.H. Reeves and Company.  

WILLIAM FERRER, ANALYST, W.H. REEVES AND COMPANY: You forgot to tell Mike Young that he had to take his shoes off to do those calculations, but that's okay. I'd like to offer my congratulations on the dividend increase. Certain shareholders certainly find that to be very important.  

My question relates to the first-quarter exploration expense. Historically, for several years, first-quarter exploration expense, US and generally foreign -- not always, but generally foreign -- has been the low point or a low point within the year. And both US and overseas kind of spiked in Q1. I'm wondering if that is specifically a consequence of the Unocal acquisition being fully folded into the Company, or if there is an unusual dry hole component associated with the first quarter, especially because there are so many key Gulf of Mexico wells that people are watching and waiting for. So perhaps, if there wasn't a dry hole component, maybe there were other expenditures taking place?  

STEVE CROWE: First of all, let me just comment on the dividend item for a moment. We have been very conscious of trying to return cash to the shareholders. Again, we look at maintaining a sustainable dividend program based on earnings and cash flows. This quarter is a 15.6% increase. A year ago, second quarter of '05, it was a 12.5% increase. And just nine months earlier than that, in the third quarter of '04, it was a 9.6%. So we feel that's very appropriate and, as you mentioned, Bill, I think the shareholders appreciate it.  

As for exploration expense, I presume you're commenting on comparisons between the first quarter of this year and the first quarter of last year. And I'll ask Irene to comment on that, but I suspect a good part of the change is attributable to the inclusion of Unocal in the first quarter of '06, and it was not there a year ago.  

IRENE MELITAS: And that is exactly correct, because the delta from the first quarter and fourth quarter -- it was pretty much flat between the two periods. But for the first quarter this year versus last year, there is a spike, and it is largely attributable to Unocal.  

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers.  

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: If I could, going back into Venezuela for a moment, Steve, can you give us some guidance in terms of when your Boscan and LL-652 changed of the operating service contract to the joint venture? What is the impact in terms of reserve amount you can book? And in terms of production, how much production now that will be a reduction from -- and what kind of earnings impact? Or did you get any compensation from that change?  

Also, from a theoretical or conceptual standpoint, when you judge a particular country, whether you want to do business or not, what kind of criteria? I mean, with Venezuela it looks like they continue to be in the midway, changing somewhat the rules of the game. How do you judge that you want to continue to invest more money into a particular country, like in the case that you do the LNG or the natural gas exploration? If you can share with us some kind of criteria, that will be great.  

STEVE CROWE: You have got about a half a dozen questions, I think, included in that. Let me begin on the Empresa Mixta question. At the end of March, Chevron signed an MOU with the government that specified terms for the conversion to an Empresa Mixta, which would be consistent with the 2001 hydrocarbon law. And the EMs, as they are referred to, the Empresa Mixtas, as it relates to Chevron would pertain to our Boscan operations as well as LL-652.  

At this point, the conversion is not finalized. The terms now require the approval of the Venezuelan National Assembly. So we are waiting for that to occur, and it's always conceivable that the terms could change in some way. These agreements, however, are subject to some binding confidentiality agreements. So at this time, we clearly can't disclose any of the specific details since, really, negotiations are still open.  

Having said that, the empresa mixtas will have the rights to produce and sell oil and gas, and we'll have to look at those rights in relation to the FASB and SEC reporting requirements as to whether or not reserves can be booked.  

As far as production is concerned, Chevron had been showing, up to this point, as other produced volumes, the gross production from Boscan as part of its OSA volumes. We'll have to, then, when the agreement is finalized, take a look at equity production, which clearly will be less but it will be equity production.  

Regarding the valuation issue, the Venezuelan government has stated publicly that it intends to preserve the OSA values of the Western oil companies, making these conversions. Consequently, we don't expect to book any accounting loss on the OSA conversion when it occurs.  

With respect to the criteria to be used for investments -- whether it be in Venezuela or Canada or the UK, United States or anywhere -- we take a look at all of the components, which very much include the fiscal terms, in making our assessment as to making an investment. And the same or pertain to Venezuela as well.  

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Merrill Lynch.  

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: You are involved in a lot of deepwater developments or exploration wells that are high-profile. I was wondering if you could give us a sense of timing of when we will hear things on Jack and also the JDZ. And with Tahiti, can you give us kind of a status update?  

STEVE CROWE: On the JDZ, that well is still being evaluated. And, although there has been things in the press offered, we are still evaluating it for the next several months, and don't plan on making an announcement until that evaluation has been completed. As far as the other deepwater prospects projects that you have alluded to, I think they are still on track relative to the timetable that we had talked about at the analyst meeting last month. If you have any specific things, though, please feel free to give Irene a call, and we will be happy to chat with you.  

OPERATOR: David Wheeler, Neuberger.  

DAVID WHEELER, ANALYST, NEUBERGER: Can you tell us -- it sounds like Unocal -- this will be the last quarter where you have the financials separated internally. Can you tell us how accretive and dilutive the Unocal was to Chevron in the first quarter for cash flow, earnings and returns?  

STEVE CROWE: You are right. We're going to lose the capability here in the second quarter of at least -- from an accounting point of view of definitively identifying legacy Unocal operations from legacy Chevron. Looking back at not only the first quarter but the last five months of 2005, we found Unocal, from an earnings point of view, to be slightly accretive to earnings and much more so accretive in terms of cash flow per share. The number that sticks in my mind is in the neighborhood of 6 to 7%, from a cash flow point of view. As we had mentioned, though, in the analyst meeting last month, we did take a hit through the workings of purchase accounting with respect to other deal metrics, that being the return on capital employed. So we envision that will be off by maybe 1.5%, but we are committed to improving the returns on the overall enterprise.  

In measuring the accretive nature from an earnings point of view, it really depends on the base from which you start, and what your expectations of Chevron would have been. Certainly, from the point of last year to now, earnings performance has been -- from an earnings point of view is far better than I think the analyst community would have had 12 months ago. So it's on that basis we do the measurement. Thanks very much for your question; it's a good one.  

OPERATOR: Neil McMahon, Sanford Bernstein.  

NEIL MCMAHON: It's a follow-up on the Reliance deal again. And maybe, if it's a quick answer, squeeze in a second one. Do you have any exclusivity on the MOU with regard to Reliance?  

STEVE CROWE: I believe, Neil, as far as exclusivity, you are intending that can Reliance deal with other parties concurrent with dealing with us?  

NEIL MCMAHON: Yes.  

STEVE CROWE: I believe there is exclusivity, but I am hesitant to say definitively. I do believe there is exclusivity, but I'm not 100% positive to that fact. We'll have to confirm that with you.  

NEIL MCMAHON: Your problems in Kazakhstan -- you say they are equipment-related. Could you just go into that, and on what field you are talking about, if that was Karachaganak or if it was Tengiz?  

STEVE CROWE: Well, we had weather-related problems, I think, at the end of the day at both -- in the Karachaganak, but the larger issue we had was with Tengiz. In the middle of January, we had some heat exchangers fail in Train 1. And that brought production down -- or limited production, I should say, for about two months. The Train came back up in the middle of March, as I recall, and was back to normal production in March. But that had an adverse effect on our production between quarters, I want to say on the order of maybe 45,000 barrels a day for TCO from the first quarter of this year to the fourth quarter of last year.  

But as a consequence, we did have operating issues in Kazakhstan and some in our Athabasca project in Canada, and we had weather related issues in Australia as well, with some cyclones coming through. If you take a look at those type of operating issues, which one would hope were not repeatable, they start to approach about 60,000 barrels a day downward. And if we were to include those to the base of what we have seen here in the first quarter, it should put us back into the guidance range that we had offered.  

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, The Benchmark Company.  

MARK GILMAN: As I do the arithmetic, the fourth quarter to first quarter delta on international BOE production is about a negative 70,000 a day. Yet the international upstream slide shows a 40 million -- I think it was a 40 million number in terms of a positive variance on liftings. Is this a mix issue? Or in fact, did you overlift in the quarter, such that you're overlifted at the end of the quarter?  

IRENE MELITAS: Mark, can you repeat your question again, please?  

MARK GILMAN: From a reported production standpoint, fourth quarter against first quarter, it is down 72,000 equivalents a day from the supplement. On the international upstream income variance slide, Irene, when you discussed it, there's a positive volume variance of $40 million. I'm wondering, is that strictly mix-related, or was there overlifting in the quarter such that you are overlifted as of March 31?  

IRENE MELITAS: We are overlifted. There was an overlifting in the quarter that benefited our -- relative to the fourth quarter, there were some benefits associated with lifting.  

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers.  

PAUL CHENG: A month ago in your analyst meeting, when you gave the 2.7 to 2.8 million barrels per day, does that include the potential tax changes for converting the operating contract into a JV in Venezuela already?  

STEVE CROWE: The guidance that we had offered, for those of you who were not at the meeting, was an OEG production of 2.7 to 2.8 million barrels a day. The wide range was intended to accommodate for any number of things, including weather that might occur this year, disruptions that might occur in any of our operations around the world, whether they be operating of nature or political in nature. And inherent in the 2.7 to 2.8 range was the continuation of the existing OSA arrangement that we have with Venezuela for Boscan. When the agreements are concluded and we have a good fix on where things stand, if need be, we will adjust the guidance. But at this stage, we are still thinking that 2.7 to 2.8 is reasonable. But clearly, with the conversion to the EM, it would be at the lower end of that range.  

Thank you all very much. In closing, let me say that we appreciate everyone's participation in the call, and I especially want to thank the analysts who asked questions on behalf of all the participants in this morning's session. We will be filing the first-quarter 10-Q next Thursday, so you will be able to see more detail than we have been able to provide on the phone here and in earnings release as well. So goodbye and, Matt, back to you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, Sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Chevron first-quarter earnings conference call. You may now disconnect. Good day.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
socal : Chevron Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gntdis : Natural Disasters/Catastrophes | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | grisk : Risk News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060512e24s000kk
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and hd=chevron not hd=event and co=cvx
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
37
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 9:03 AM GMT
  
