 
•	 Q4 2016 Visa Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2016 Visa Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Visa Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Visa Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Visa Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Visa Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Visa Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Visa Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Visa Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Visa Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Visa Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Visa Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Visa Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2009 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2009 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2009 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2008 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2008 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2008 Visa Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final


 HD
 Q4  2016  Visa  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,598 words
   PD
24 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa's fiscal fourth-quarter 2016 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thank you, Laura. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa Inc.'s 2016 fiscal fourth-quarter and full fiscal year earnings conference call. Joining us today are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer, and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the internet and is accessible on the investor relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will be archived on our site for 90 days. A PowerPoint deck containing the financial and statistical highlights of today's call have been posted to our IR website as well.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance and our actual results could materially differ as the result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available and our most recent reports on forms 10-K and 10-Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the investor relations section of Visa's website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, related GAAP measures and other information required by Reg G of the SEC, are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks very much, Jack, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking the time to join us. Let me start with a few comments about our fiscal fourth-quarter financial results.

First of all, as you can see with the inclusion of Visa Europe, the quarter and our thoughts on next year will be somewhat complicated but we will do our best to provide clarity on what's driving our results, both in my remarks, but probably more importantly, in Vasant's remarks as he goes through the detail. Overall, we feel very good about the solid financial results in the fourth quarter. Results were better than our expectations.

GAAP EPS of $0.79 included two special items, the $110 million charge for severance costs and $88 million non-cash and non-recurring gain for the re-measurement of a deferred tax liability related to the acquisition of Visa Europe. Excluding these items, fourth quarter adjusted GAAP EPS was $0.78 per share, an increase of 27%. Net operating revenue grew 19% this quarter, including the full-quarter of Visa Europe and a continued negative three percentage point impact from FX. While growth continues to be subdued by some of the same items we've spoken about previously, we're starting to see improvements as we expected and our business model, as you've seen, continues to be resilient.

I would be remiss if I didn't mention last weeks 18% dividend increase to $0.165 per quarter. We continue to be consistent in returning excess capital to our shareholders.

We turn now and talk for a couple minutes about payments volume. US payments volume growth was 11% in the fourth quarter, up one percentage point from Q3. US credit payments volume improved to 19% from 11% in the June quarter, primarily driven by the positive impact of Costco and USAA. US debit payments volume grew at 3%, down from 9% in the quarter. The lower growth was primarily driven by Interlink, and remember the impact to revenue of this is minimal.

International payments constant-dollar volume growth ex-Europe was 9%. Cross-border volume growth accelerated to 10% when normalized for Europe, up from 9% in the third quarter. Process transaction growth was 12% and accelerated one point from the third quarter when normalized for Europe as well.

More recently, through October 21, US payment volume growth was 12%, up one percentage point from the fourth quarter. US credit grew 20%, up one point from the September quarter. US debit grew 5%, an improvement from the 3% in the fiscal Q4. Cross-border growth in constant dollars is 11% when normalized for Europe and process transactions was 12% when normalized for Europe.

Just a few comments about Europe. The integration itself is going extremely well. We just couldn't be happier with the interaction between the two Companies and we are well under way to putting all of the functions together and operating seamlessly as one global entity.

Importantly, renewal activity continues to be very strong. We've signed multi-year debit agreements with RBS and Lloyds Banking Group and multi-year credit and debit agreements with Barclays and Nationwide. We have very good engagement with clients on our product and our digital road map, including Visa Checkout which is being rolled out as we speak.

Vasant will discuss in more detail how we're doing financially, but things are playing out as we would have expected so far and around the rest of the globe client activity continues to remain very strong. To name just a few, we renewed a multi-year debit and credit partnership to BBVA Bancomer Mexico. We renewed our credit partnership with China Merchants Bank and China CITIC Bank and in Russia we renewed multi-year credit partnerships with Alfa Bank and VTB 24.

We turn to talk for a couple minutes about Visa Checkout. We ended FY16 with over 15 million consumer accounts in 21 countries and over 1,400 financial institution partners across the globe participating. More than 300,000 merchants, including some of the largest global retailers, have signed on to accept Visa Checkout, representing $162 billion in addressable volume.

In October, we rolled out a redesigned Visa Checkout experience to all global merchants. This new experience makes it easier for consumers to sign up and complete purchases on mobile devices. We also announced earlier today, that we're opening the Visa Checkout platform to clients and partners, allowing them to integrate their digital wallets into Visa Checkout for streamlined authentication and check out.

Leading Visa financial institutions and partners, such as Google's Android Pay, will take advantage of the new open platform by offering Visa Checkout to their customers for online purchases. Issuers, digital wallets and payment app providers can access a streamlined set of APIs to easily integrate Visa Checkout open platform and immediately begin to offer payments to their customers shopping online on their mobile devices. For example, an online shopper who uses a digital wallet from a participating Visa issuer or Android Pay would simply click the Visa Checkout button on a merchants check out page and authenticate their identity through biometrics to complete a purchase. We move on to another topic.

We continue to vest in new products and services to help our merchant clients. In September, we announced Visa Advertising Solutions, a new suite of products specifically built to help merchants reach new customers and understand if their digital advertising efforts are influencing consumer purchases, purchasing decisions online and in store.

Visa Ad Measurement and Visa Audiences are products that integrate with ad tech platforms, like Oracle Data Cloud, allowing Visa's merchants to easily access valuable insights when executing a digital ad campaign. Top quick service restaurants and retail merchants, such as Banana Republic, have used Visa Ad Measurement reports to understand sales impact and optimize their marketing campaigns. Visa Advertising Solutions are available to merchants through leading digital platforms such as Facebook, Google, Twitter, Pinterest and over 200 other media networks.

We've spoken about this before but I do want to highlight the success that we're seeing in our global network of Innovation Centers. In addition to One Market Street in San Francisco, we've opened innovation centers in Singapore in April, Dubai in May, Miami in June, and plans to launch one in New York in January, as well as London and Sao Paolo. In 2016 alone, we held over 600 client engagements globally with over 200 clients participating. These range from tours and demos to multi-day hackathons and in depth co-creation sessions. These are forums where we can demonstrate where we think payments are going in each geography but our goal is to develop realtime solutions with clients that they can implement very quickly.

Past payments continues to be an important opportunity around the world and we're having good success working with clients and partners to capture the opportunity using our Visa direct push-payment product platform. Annual Visa Direct PV exceeds $29 billion globally for the period ending September 2016, and annual US Visa Direct volumes topped 5 billion for the first time ending September 2016. Growth exceeds 250% from the same period last year. Globally, nearly 3 billion Visa cards are enabled to receive push payments. We're working with key partners including EWS, FIS, Fiserv, Jack Henry, Stripe, Ingo Money, Square and Green Dot.

I also want to talk for a minute about how we're using push payments to electronify payments in developing economies. We recently launched a new service called mVisa in India, Kenya and Rwanda, and we plan to expand to several other markets around the world during 2017. mVisa allows a consumer to transfer money to a merchant in realtime with nothing more than their mobile phone and merchants are able to start accepting Visa transactions immediately without any additional hardware. We've seen early success in several different categories, including small micro-merchants, local transportation, such as taxi, and bill payment. You'll likely hear much more in the future about these efforts.

Tokenization continues to be a very important part of insuring safe and secure mobile payment solutions. We recently announced new specifications that allow certified third parties to connect directly to our token service and become token service providers. These TSPs will be able to provide a range of services for Visa tokens, including new account provisioning and life cycle management. By expanding access to the Visa token service to new partners, Visa issuers will be able to more quickly and easily offer secure digital payment services across a wide range of devices.

I'll let Vasant talk in detail about our outlook for 2017, but just a few comments from me. We entered 2017 certainly with fewer headwinds as we did entering 2016 and we do have some tail winds. On the negative side, the global economy is not improving, geopolitical tensions are high, the US election is a wild card and we continue to watch the impact of Brexit. But Costco and USAA meaningfully improved volumes, with USAA being an important contributor to revenues in the US, while Costco far less so. Cross-border volumes are both lapping decreases and have improved and we will have a full-year benefit from Europe, which as I said, is performing as expected.

Since this is my last call I do want to make just a few closing comments. I'm so proud to have been associated with Visa, its clients, its partners and its employees. I hope you feel that this is a different Company than four years ago and that the things we've done have positioned the Company well for the future. We focused our work on providing payments leadership and a platform which will enable our clients, all clients, to grow their franchises.

The competition is strong and the canvas is still being painted as the industry evolves, but our position is strong and our assets are exceptional. And always keep in mind, as we think about what's going on around the world and we look at the risks and opportunity, this is a very global business. The competitive issues are different geography-by-geography but opportunities exist around the world for us to grow our share. While there's always risk, and many are trying to figure out how to advantage themselves as commerce moves to digital platforms, there's more opportunity globally than ever before for Visa. Vasant?

VASANT PRABHU, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Charlie. For the full quarter of Visa Europe in our numbers for the first time we had a strong finish for FY16. On a GAAP basis, fiscal fourth-quarter revenues were up 19%, operating income up 15% and EPS up 28%.

We closed FY16 with full-year revenues of $15 billion, net income of $6 billion and EPS at $2.48. On an adjusted basis, operating income for the fourth quarter was up 20% and EPS was up 27%. Net income for the full year was $6.9 billion and EPS was $2.84.

For the remainder of my comments I will be referring to adjusted results. A few points to note. First, payment volumes on a constant-dollar basis continued to grow at double-digit rates globally. The secular shift away from cash continues at a fast clip around the world. Credit growth out stripped debit growth, helped by Costco and USAA.

Second, cross-border constant-dollar volume growth recovered to double-digit levels. The dollar has stabilized, helping our large US acquired business. In addition, oil price stability and a nascent recovery in Emerging Markets has helped outbound commerce across most regions. Only Europe slowed, due to general economic weakness as well as the impact of the Brexit vote on the euro and the pound. Easier year-over-year comparisons are also helping.

Third, we had two special items in the quarter that largely offset each other. We took a charge for severance costs associated with actions we are implementing across Visa, including the reductions we are planning to make at Visa Europe. The consultation process is under way in Europe and we expect it will be completed before the end of 2016, after which we will begin to implement the agreed-upon plan. As we integrate Europe into the rest of Visa, we have taken the opportunity, as we told you we would, to look at our global cost structure and will make some adjustments. Offsetting this charge was a non-recurring, non-cash tax benefit from the reduction in the UK corporate tax rate, which reduced our UK deferred tax liability.

Finally, as you know we issued preferred shares for the Visa Europe acquisition. We also bought back 20.5 million shares in the fourth quarter for $1.66 billion. We ended the quarter with a weighted average share count of 2.44 billion, up 54 million from Q3. For the full year, FY16, we bought back 92 million shares for $7.1 billion at an average price of $77.13. This is approximately $2 billion higher than what a normal course buyback would have been last year. The additional buyback reflects our intent to offset the dilutive impact of the preferred shares issued and will continue into early FY18, as we previously indicated.

I'll quickly review business drivers and financial results for the quarter and FY16 then spend most of my time on our outlook for FY17. At least for this quarter, we will highlight the impact of adding in Visa Europe where it is helpful to better understand our results. US payment volumes grew 11% in Q4 as US credit grew 19%, helped by USAA and Costco volumes. US debit grew 3% due to lapping a significant new account win in our Interlink business in Q4 last year and the impact of pin-debit routing this quarter.

Adjusted for Interlink volumes, the US debit growth trend was unchanged from the prior quarter. As merchants make routing decisions based on incentive deals in place with various networks, we expect there will continue to be volatility in our Interlink growth rates. However, given the relative size of this business, the impact on our total revenues will be minimal.

International payment volumes, ex-europe, grew 9% in constant dollars. The tick down from the prior quarter trend was largely due to the lapping effect of a large Chinese bank that started including previously unreported domestic volumes in Q3 last year. Ex-china, growth rates remain strong in Asia as well as Latin America. The Middle East and Russia were stable but Sub-Saharan Africa was a soft spot.

In Europe, new regulations that went into effect in June no longer require issuers of co-badged cards to report domestic volumes we do not process. This will distort year-over-year comparisons throughout FY17. Excluding Europe, cross-border constant-dollar growth rates stepped up to 10% in Q4. This is the first time we have reported double-digit cross-border volume growth since Q4 FY14. The weakening dollar is driving a recovery in our large US acquired business as well as outbound commerce from Canada. Cross-border growth in North America climbed to 9%, a rate of growth we have not seen since the end of 2013.

Internationally, cross-border growth rates stepped up across all geographies, helped by stabilizing oil prices and recovering Emerging Markets. Cross-border growth rates in China have stabilized in the mid single-digits. The only region ticking down in growth was Europe, as the weak pound post-Brexit has hurt outbound commerce from the UK.

Excluding Europe, transactions processed over VisaNet grew 11%. The small step up from the prior quarter was due to the NSBK effect in Russia. As you know, our reported transactions growth was hurt in the past five quarters as we transitioned processing to NSBK starting in the third quarter of FY15.

Transactions processed in Europe grew 15%, in line with the previous quarter. Net revenues grew 19% in Q4, 6% excluding the impact of Europe. Expenses grew 18%, 5% excluding Europe.

We finished the year with adjusted EPS of $2.84. If you exclude the impact of the Visa Europe acquisition, which is interest expense from the debt issued with shares issued, as well as Europe's income and other one-time items, our EPS grew 10% in nominal dollars and 14% in constant dollars. We were able to deliver this growth despite a soft revenue picture caused by the strong dollar, the oil and commodity price collapse impacting many regions, as well as a slowdown in China. We were able to hold FY16 expense growth to 1% ex-Europe, while continuing to invest heavily in all our critical long-term initiatives such as Visa Checkout, Visa Token Service, Visa Developer Platform, our Innovation Centers, our marketing around the Rio Olympics and other programs.

We enter FY17 with some tail winds. Costco and USAA conversions are now well under way as you saw from our Q4 payment volumes. Cross-border growth rates have recovered as the dollar stabilizes and we have easier year-over-year comparisons. Two significant drags from prior years eased. The translation impact of the strong dollar and gas price declines. We begin to benefit from the Visa Europe acquisition with yield improvements, cost reductions and EPS accretion.

Balancing these tail winds are some headwinds. Economic weakness in Europe and Brexit uncertainty hurting both domestic and cross border volumes. A global economy that remains generally sluggish. A potential decline in Treasury revenues as volatilities subside from the extraordinary high levels we have experienced in the past two years. And finally, a step up in client incentives as we bring on Costco and other major renewals as well as folding in Europe. We'll review how all these factors drive our outlook for 2017, starting with payments volumes.

USAA and Costco will drive payments volume growth in the US. However, we expect international payments volume growth to slow down modestly due to weakness in Europe and China. Reported European payment volume numbers will be distorted by the change in co-badged volume reporting. If no co-badged volume is included, reported European payment volumes could be down 15% to 20%, dragging the reported global payments growth down by as much as seven to eight percentage points, with a larger impact in the first three quarters.

As you saw in Q4, cross-border volumes are recovering, helped by easier comparisons, the stabilizing dollar and oil prices, as well as improving emerging market economies. In Europe, cross-border growth rates have been trending down through FY16 and we anticipate that this will continue as the pound remains weak and economies across Europe struggle. Inbound commerce into the US will likely grow after two consecutive years of decline. Outbound commerce is expected to recover in the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. In Asia, Chinese cross-border growth appear to have stabilized.

The recovery in cross-border growth may be offset to some degree by a decline in currency volatilities and the revenue we derive from it. Currency volatilities have been extraordinarily high for the past couple of years, well above long-term averages. At some point there will be a reversion to the mean or even an overcorrection in the other direction like we saw in 2014.

For purposes of our outlook, we're resuming what we did last year. A reversion to the mean in FY17, but as they say, it will be what it will be. With the NSBK transition behind us in Russia, debit gains in Brazil, Costco and USAA volumes in the US, we expect process transactions growth to tick up in FY17, ex-Europe. European process transaction growth rates will slow down as we lap the rapid acceleration of [contact mix] transactions in the UK in FY16.

We finished FY16 with client incentives as a percent of gross revenues approaching 19% in the second half. Our outlook anticipates a range of 20.5% to 21.5% in FY17, a 1.5 to 2.5 points increase. There are several factors driving this increase. About half of the year-over-year increase is driven by the inclusion of Visa Europe for the full year and the impact of eliminating rebates and replacing them with performance-based client incentives.

In our filings of Visa Europe numbers for the first three quarters of FY16 that you have seen, US GAAP accounting requires that rebates are netted from gross revenues. When we eliminated rebates at the end of September, it has the effect of increasing Visa Europe's gross FY17 revenues and, in parallel, Visa Europe's FY17 client incentives as we replace these rebates with appropriate, market-competitive incentives. The net effect of this change in the European pricing structure, and the overall level of client incentives in Europe, accounts for about half the increase, from 19% in Q4 to the range we provided for FY17.

The other half of the year-over-year step up in client incentives as a percent of gross revenues is driven by a full year of Costco incentives and the impact of several large renewals completed in FY16, particularly in Asia. When you put all this together, we expect constant dollar net revenue growth in the high teens in FY17, moderated to the 16% to 18% range in nominal dollars by an estimated 1 point to1.5 point exchange rate impact.

This currency translation impact may be larger than you are anticipating based on dollar spot rates or forward curves. Let me explain why this is the case. It has to do with our longstanding practice of layering on monthly hedges, no different than what most global companies do. This approach to hedging is not seeking to make directional bets on currencies but rather to dampen the effect of changes in the trend of the dollar. When the dollar strengthens, these hedges delay the cost and when the dollar weakens they delay the benefit, essentially mitigating volatility.

In FY16, the hedges helped in the first half and then as the dollar started to weaken they hurt in the second half. This will continue into FY17. The hedges in place will be a drag in the first half. If the dollar stabilizes as currency forwards are suggesting, they will be neutral in the second half. The total exchange rate drag on net revenues could be 2 points to 2.5 points in the first quarter, comparable to Q4 FY16 moderating through the year to half a point in Q4 FY17.

On the expense front, we will continue to invest as aggressively as we need to on all our key growth initiatives, including the global expansion of Visa Checkout, Visa Token Service and Visa Innovation Centers. We will continue to build on our Visa developer platform, our data and analytics capabilities, loyalty and offers, mVisa and other key programs. In parallel, as we have done in F17, we will look to gain efficiencies in other parts of our business by enhancing productivity and adding capabilities in lower-cost locations. Excluding Europe, we expect expense growth to return to the mid single-digit range in FY17.

In terms of the expense base in Europe, after the consultation process is completed, we will implement our plan. While this will reduce costs in some areas, we will be investing in Europe to rollout Visa Checkout and our other digital services, as well as adding to our sales and marketing resources, to bring all the benefits of global Visa to our European clients as fast as we can.

We will also incur approximately $80 million in Visa Europe integration costs in FY17. These are costs to harmonize the two technology platforms. Our technology teams are in the process of aligning authorization clearance and settlement systems, upgrading network compute and storage infrastructure, implementing next generation information security systems, preparing to move to common end-user and corporate platforms.

As you may recall, we had indicated that the technology integration would not be completed until late 2019, early 2020. We had estimated total integration costs in the $450 million to $500 million range over this time frame. While these are not recurring costs, we will incur these costs for the next three years until we complete the full integration of Visa Europe.

We will call these costs out as we have in our outlook, however we do not plan to adjust these costs from our GAAP numbers when we report each quarter. Of course, these integration costs will not be incurred once the technology integration is complete. Also as we have indicated, additional cost savings will be realized when we combine the technology platform.

It is important to highlight one item that we need to adjust for as you consolidate Visa Europe into Visa Inc. Prior to the acquisition, as you all know, there were intercompany charges that flowed between Visa Europe and Visa Inc. These were expenses for Visa Europe and revenues for Visa Inc.

The largest item was the Visa Europe license fee. The other major charge was for network processing services provided by Visa Inc. For the first three quarters of FY16, these intercompany charges amounted to $191 million. Two-thirds were recognized as other revenues in the Visa Inc. income statement and the remainder in data processing revenues. At Visa Europe, one-third of the expense hit the network and processing line and most of the rest was in G&A, with a small amount in personnel.

Post the acquisition, these intercompany revenues and expenses completely offset one another and are eliminated in consolidation. Therefore none of these revenues and expense amounts are included in the reported fourth-quarter numbers or will be included going forward. If you do not adjust for these changes, your FY16 baseline for Visa Europe operating expenses would be overstated by $191 million, as would your FY16 baseline for Visa Inc. revenues.

In terms of costs related to China market entry, the timing remains uncertain. We assumed we would be much further along at this point when we talked to you last year. It is our intent to move very fast to set up our processing infrastructure once we have greater clarity from the PBOC around timeliness for their decision on granting licenses. At this point it is difficult to know for sure what cost related to China market entry will be incurred in FY17. We have made some assumptions in our outlook and will update you as we learn more.

Moving on to interest and taxes. Interest expense will increase almost 40% in FY17 from a full year of interest on the $16 billion in debt issued in December, 2015, as well as the $2 billion in debt we plan to issue before the end of this calendar year, market conditions permitting. Our FY17 tax rate will increase due to Visa Europe. As you know, under the current structure Visa Europe is a US taxpayer. The current stack structure affords us some cash tax benefits but has the effect of increasing our book or GAAP tax rate due to restrictions on the credits we can take on taxes we pay in the UK. As we had indicated previously, this structure increases our reported tax rate by 100 basis points to the low 30%s range.

As you estimate our FY17 EPS, it's important to remember that we issued 79 million preferred shares as part of the consideration for Visa Europe. These shares are now included in our fully diluted share count, which is up 54 million net of buybacks completed in the fourth quarter. We have ramped up our buyback program to offset the dilutive impact of the shares issued. In FY17, our buyback pace in dollars should be roughly at the same level as FY16. At this pace, by the end of 2017, we would have bought back almost $5 billion more than our normal course buyback or offset almost 80% of stock issued. We will maintain the stepped-up pace of buybacks until we complete this program in early FY18.

With a full year of interest expense as well as $2 billion more in debt with a higher GAAP tax rate and with additional shares outstanding, our EPS growth rate in FY17 will be lower than net revenue growth. In nominal terms, our outlook anticipates mid-teens EPS growth from an adjusted FY16 baseline of $2.84. This includes a 1.5 point to two point drag from exchange rates, mostly due to the impact of hedging described earlier. As with revenues, the drag from exchange rates will be higher in the first half, comparable to fourth-quarter 2016 levels in Q1 and moderating through the year.

Our EPS outlook assumes EPS accretion from Visa Europe will be in the 2% to 3% range in FY17, as expected. The accretive impact of Visa Europe is greater in the second and third quarters, when we had interest expense last year from debt issued for the transactions but no income from Visa Europe until the fourth quarter. Also benefits from our cost reduction actions start being realized in the second quarter. Visa Europe is tracking well relative to our expectations and we remain confident that accretion will climb to the high single-digit range by 2020, once we've implemented all our plans to improve yield and lower costs.

In summary, we feel good about FY17. The Visa Europe integration is proceeding well and delivering as expected. Payment volume momentum remains robust globally. Transactions growth remains healthy. Cross border volumes are recovering as the dollar stabilizes and comparisons become easier. Gas prices and exchange rate drags are easing.

As always, there are risks to watch. The global economy remains sluggish, especially in Europe. Cross-border business in Europe is slowing. Currency volatilities could moderate. Balancing these factors, our FY17 outlook anticipates 16% to 18% net revenue growth and mid-teens EPS growth in nominal dollars.

As always, we'll update our views as the year unfolds and share them with you each quarter. With that I'll turn the call back to Jack.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Vasant. Laura, at this time we're ready to start taking questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Our first question is from Tien-tsin Huang from JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi. Thanks for all of the details and they're lot to go through here. I wanted to ask on revenue growth contribution from Visa Europe, assumed in FY17. What's being assumed there?

And what's the Visa Europe yield assumption, as well? Do you need yields to rise in order to hit guidance? Thank you. And best wishes to you, Charlie.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, Tien-tsin, going through your questions. If you look at next year, I think we've tried to give you as much as we can, in terms of what we see in terms of trends. So clearly from a growth rate standpoint, you have a sense of what growth in Europe has been this year.

We are seeing, as you saw through the year, some slowdown in the cross-border growth rate but seeing some slowdown in the payment volume growth rate. But overall, it will be a decent year of growth in Europe, though not as high as we are seeing in other parts of the world or in the US. So that's Europe growth. In terms of yields, yes. Yields are assumed to improve.

Some of that we anticipate will happen from some of the actions we are in the process of implementing, like what we told you, the elimination of rebates and the replacements with client incentives and other actions we're doing. So you will see yields improve but as we look ahead, Visa Europe will be an integral part of Visa and you will start see the impact of Visa Europe in the aggregate numbers we report and what happens to our yields from the new baseline you have in yields, and so on.

So hopefully that helps. We try to give you as much detail as we can on what the current trend is and it will help you figure out what Europe is contributing as you look ahead.

OPERATOR: Our next is from Jim Schneider from Goldman Sachs.

JIM SCHNEIDER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. Best wishes to you, Charlie. I was wondering if you could just frame, besides all of the details, at the highest level when you think about the guidance for 2017 that you offered, whether when you think about that versus last year, whether you think it's more or less conservative than last year in terms of your overall approach?

And can you talk about what's the biggest factor about Visa Europe, outside of the consumer trends, that could drive that either to the positive or negative side? Whether it be client renewals or anything else?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Why don't I do the first and I'll let Vasant do the second. You should expect the answer for us to be that we -- that in both years we try and be as accurate as we can. And obviously there's a tremendous amount of assumptions that go into this. I've said this time and time again, right? Which is you all put all this weight on what we're telling you 2017 will be and what we try and make clear is, there's a series of things that we know and there's a series of things we don't know.

And the series of things we don't know, but where we are making assumptions, we try and lay those out for you. And quite frankly, you have got to make your own determination whether you think those are aggressive or conservative. But I'll tell you, it's certainly not in any of our bones and hasn't been any part of Visa's bones since it went public, to be on the aggressive side.

VASANT PRABHU: Just to reiterate what we are expecting, and again I think we try to give you as actual a point of view as we can. Our revenue growth, if you adjust for the exchange rate drag, which perhaps you may not have anticipated without thinking about the hedging implications and you might have seen the hedging implications in our second half results.

Our currency impact essentially stayed flat through the year, mostly because hedging helped in the first half and hurt a bit in the second half. And all it does really is delay the impact of the moves in the dollar. But if you adjust for the hedging impact, what you're seeing is high-teens revenue growth, net revenue growth. And what you're seeing is mid-teens plus 1.5 points to 2 points EPS growth. It's not that different than perhaps what you might have expected of us going into the year. Visa Europe is tracking as we expected. We feel very good about it.

What could surprise one way or another, we laid out all of the factors and clearly, the cross-border trends are heartening. And hopefully if the dollar stays on this track, which is either stable or further weakening that will be good for us. I think currency forwards are now expecting more of a flattening of the dollar which is sort of what we have assumed. In terms of the currency volatility front, that's a little bit of anybody's guess. We did tell you what we are assuming.

But overall, if there is going to be anything on the plus or minus side, we have assumed that the European trends have softened through the year and we have assumed that those trends will continue into next year. Hopefully, European economies will do better than that and if that does, it will be great.

OPERATOR: Thank you our next question is from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: Thanks. Just maybe on the incentives, obviously, they're going up a decent amount. Is some of it because you've had better success than you thought in resigning some of these banks? And maybe, Vasant, you could just talk about how we should consider the trajectory after 2017, given this back drop? Thanks.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, I think, obviously, we will talk more about all that as we get into the latter part of 2017, when we talk about 2018. But trajectory-wise, I wouldn't assume significant changes. Visa Europe is now part of the numbers and that explains, as we told you earlier, about half the delta. And there's also this impact we get when we pull back the rebates. It has the effect of raising gross revenues and incentives at the same time. So Visa Europe lands up at a place where their incentives as a percent of gross revenue are certainly driving the new level.

Beyond that, yes. We have Costco coming in for a full year, that certainly adds to it. And we had some significant renewals in particular Asian geographies. So this -- you should assume that this is a level that is about where we should see it stay but we'll update you as we get through this year.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Jamie Friedman from Susquehanna.

JAMIE FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP / SIG: Yes. This may be more of a housekeeping question Vasant, but historically, looking at page 13 from third-quarter slides, you used to give constant dollar growth and then adjust for the foreign exchange. Now you're giving a nominal dollar growth and then calling out the foreign exchange. I'm just wondering what, philosophically, is the adjustment because it's kind of an important change in the messaging.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, I think you're reading too much into it. As general rule, we've gone through all our releases and we try to lead with what is the GAAP number and follow with what's the adjusted number.

So you've seen us do that almost everywhere and you should not read too much into it really. And also the currency impact certainly is moderating but I wouldn't say that's the reason it follows rather than leads. It has more to do with wanting to lead with GAAP numbers wherever we can.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Bryan Keane from Deutsche Bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi guys. Just on the quarter, you guys had said that the results were better than expected. Just not exactly clear what drove the better than expected results?

If you could maybe highlight some things that drove better than what you guys anticipated? And then on Visa Europe, I know it was 13 points to 14 points of contribution to revenue in the fourth quarter, at least that was the guidance. I'm just not sure -- clear what that contribution will be for FY17 in that same manner? Thanks.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, in the fourth quarter I'd say on the margin, revenue was a little better but expenses were better and the tax rate was a little bit better. So in aggregate, it was a little better than we expected. As far as next year goes -- and now Visa Europe is integral part of our business.

We do not separate out our regions so you would we would report everything on an aggregated basis and not separate out Visa Europe. It becomes more and more integrated in and it's best to look at it on an aggregated basis. But we've given you enough so that you'll get a good sense of what Visa Europe contributed and, as you model next year, it will give you a good sense of what Visa Europe will contribute to next year.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Tom McCrohan from CLSA.

TOM MCCROHAN, ANALYST, CLSA: Could you just give us a progress of the number of Visa European banks that you still need to finalize in terms of moving them to an incentive structure? Thanks.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, it's an active process. It's well under way. We are happy with progress. There's a well-choreographed process which talks to a large number of issuers, so I don't know if there's much more than that we would say at this point.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Craig Maurer from Autonomous.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: Yes. Hi, thanks. While it sounds like China is trailing expectations in terms of when you can get up and running, could you comment on Mexico and when you think Mexico could be accretive to numbers? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me just start with China for a second. I've said this I think over and over and over again and so this will be the last chance I'll get to say it, which is China is a very important opportunity for us. It's something that we spend a lot of time on and we take very seriously, but it's a long term opportunity and long term is not measured in months or single-digits numbers of years. So the work, and our thought process that we have going on with China, does not demand that we're allowed market entry at any specific date.

We've said we're committed for the long term. We don't expect it to be a meaningfully different contributor to the revenue growth or the profits of the Company in the shorter period of time because there's a lot that's out of our control.

And so as we sit here today, as we think about our forecasting over the next bunch of years, we don't rely on China when we think about the opportunities for us to continue to grow the Company. At some point we do believe that they will pan out, but again, that's a longer term opportunity rather than a shorter term opportunity.

VASANT PRABHU: And there's really not much to say about Mexico. That is an ongoing discussion we are having and over time, if there are new developments -- .

CHARLIE SCHARF: I'm not sure what the question is on Mexico.

VASANT PRABHU: I presume about processing transactions.

CHARLIE SCHARF: So that one is client-by-client and we have some good discussions going on where it's up to us to talk about the benefits that clients get when we process transactions and when there's something to talk about, relative to movement in the marketplace, I'm sure, Vasant will do it.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Jason Kupferberg from Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Yes. Hey, guys. So just on cross-border, it was great to see us get back to double-digit growth organic and I know there's a bunch of moving parts for FY17 in that regard, but are you expecting double-digit growth to continue through 2017 as part of your guidance? And then just a quick housekeeping separate from that. Can you tell us what percent of your European volumes are from UK?

VASANT PRABHU: What percent of our European volumes are from the UK? Yes, if I remember right, I think that it was, from a revenue standpoint, we've told you that revenues from the UK were a little above 10%. So that gives you a rough idea. In terms of the cross-border business, what we saw in the fourth quarter, as you mentioned, was a nice recovery in the US acquired business.

We also saw quite a bit of growth in the acquired business in the UK from the weakness of the pound. We saw improvement in the acquired business in places like Mexico, mostly benefiting from the US. Those are some of the big growth spots.

The good news though was from an issuing standpoint, we saw growth in a lot of places. We saw growth coming out of Brazil, a lot of out of Russia, out of many of the commodity- and oil-based economies; Middle East and parts of Asia also improving and China beginning to stabilize. So our expectation going forward is not for a significant change from these trends. You should assume -- we are hoping that these trends stay roughly about the same.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Glenn Greene from Oppenheimer.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Glenn? If you're talking you're on mute. Glenn?

GLENN GREENE, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Yes, can you hear me?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, there we go.

GLENN GREENE: Okay, sorry about that. A couple of number clarifications, maybe for Vasant. First one, could you give us what the constant currency volume growth in Europe was? And then of the -- the question would be also of the percentage of European transactions that are processed, meaning included in the Visa process transactions? And then if I heard right I just want to clarify that you're expecting mid-teen decline in Europe volume because of the co-badging issue?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, let me talk a little bit about that. I think we reported this. We heard most people reported their co-badge volumes in the fourth quarter. So the fourth quarter number ended up being the relatively untainted by lack of reporting and I think the payment volumes, if I remember right, was somewhere in the 6% range. So as you can see they are lower than what we see in other parts of the world, in terms of growth rates.

As we look at next year, the issue on co-badge volumes is that there are a certain number of issuers that have co-badge cards with us who are no longer required to report their co-badge volumes and transactions, we do not process. The biggest impact is in France and there's some impact in some Scandinavian countries. If they don't all report, which is what we expect, we expect that they will all not report, then payment volumes will decline next year, we said, as much as 15% to 20%. So remember if it's plus 6% and minus 20%, it's a delta of almost 25% or 26%.

Plus as you know, in the first three quarters, Visa Europe, payment volumes will show up as all-incremental to our payment volumes and we'll have this impact on it. So you will see a fair amount of distortion in payment volume reporting as a result of this.

Now the lack of payment volume reporting and its revenue impacts, we've factored into our outlook. So that is all factored into what we told you our revenue picture is next year. Where the payment volumes will look odd, although we report by region, so at least you'll be able to see what it is by region and be able to look at how everybody else is doing and Europe will just look odd.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Lisa Ellis from Bernstein.

LISA ELLIS, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hi, Charlie. As you're closing out your tenure with Visa, unfortunately for all of us, could you just do a brief kind of look-back over some of the major pieces of Visa strategy over your tenure? Particularly around the merchant side, just putting that in context of your announcement around the Visa Ad Measurement capabilities?

And then also on the B2B side with the call outs related to Visa Direct and then recent announcement with Chain around B2B connect and just how you see the progress in some of those major pieces of your strategy over the last couple of years?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, listen. First of all, and I really do believe this, which is, and I said this when we did the call last week, which is you all know as well as I do that companies like this are not dependent on any one person right? There are 13,000 other people here that are going to continue doing what they've done the day after I go. And with a leader like Al, I would assume will do it as well if not better. And so as we think about what we've done over the past four years, or even what this Company has done since its gone public, its based upon what an entire Management Team has done.

I think that, what I feel very good about when I think about the things that we've done, I think you brought up the work on -- that we have really, I would describe it as we have really begun to do with merchants, is an important part of the way we think about what we do. We are not trying to do work for merchants in lieu of any other client or any other partner, but just recognizing that everyone participates in the payments value chain should get access to the capabilities that we have.

And so, someone asked me last week if I were them, how would they evaluate how we're doing at making progress with merchants. And my answer was, I would look to see that we're continuing quarter-after-quarter, year-after-year to introduce solutions in the marketplace which help merchants grow their business and then try and drive some kind of understanding of what the adoption looks like for those products.

And don't be confused by a couple of merchants that are always going to be unhappy and that are always going to be doing things in the marketplace. The merchant world is very fragmented across the world. We've got some very, very strong relationships and we've got a bunch of relationships where those merchants are sitting there very eager to work with us on the solutions that we're developing.

And then I think, because I don't want to take up the whole call with a question, I do think just -- when I think about the way we thought about innovation here and the way we thought about our work in digital commerce, we've just -- the whole organization has just made tremendous progress. We don't talk about -- let me say it differently, we don't use the word innovation around here anymore because it becomes part of the way people think about doing their business.

We're rooted in supporting our client base and supporting the four-party model, but we are very focused on being as successful and having our clients be successful in the digital world. And whether it's the work of the dev center, the APIs, that we've made available, all of the things that we've done that position us well in the world of digital commerce, including Visa Checkout, those are all part of those things. So everything we do is about continuing to be strong in the physical world but recognizing that we needed to think very differently in the digital world.

There's a tremendous amount more to do so I don't want to -- I don't think about this as if we've done it and it's time for me to move on. I think we've done an awful lot but I'm confident that those activities and the way people think is the way the organization thinks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Darrin Peller from Barclays.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, guys. Just a quick follow up on incentives. I know you ran it about 18.9% in Q4, guidance around 21% at the mid-point. I guess I thought you already included or you were at a run rate of including Costco and USAA incentives already, along with Visa Europe. The vast majority of it was already the run rate in the past quarter.

And then quickly on expenses, you're saying single-digit growth. I know you just did, again did low single-digit growth in the year, seem to have been able to accomplish all your investment needs under that rate. If you could just explain why we need to reaccelerate? Thanks, guys.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, I think mid single-digits has been our historic -- and by the way that's the expense growth for, let's call it core-Visa ex-europe, the expense base you've been used to looking at. And if you look at the history, we've typically run mid single-digits. We are continuing to invest in all the programs you want to invest in.

What we did this year was to prioritize around all of the other things. As we look at next year, the run rate returns to what has been more of a long-term trend. Our level of investment remains as steady as it has been and we'll continue to drive productivity. Some of the charge we took is a reflection of that. So that was in terms of the expense growth rate, so it really is a return back to what has been a very long-term trend and to level of investment we need to keep the business focused on all of the right things. The other part of the question I may have forgotten?

DARRIN PELLER: Incentives.

VASANT PRABHU: On incentives, we didn't have the impact of Visa Europe in the fourth quarter to the extent that you have it next year because in the fourth quarter the rebates were still in place. We eliminated the rebates only as of the end of September. And then also, quarter-by-quarter impacts with the Visa Europe brand, a relatively higher level of incentives in the first half of the year, somewhat lower in the second half if you look to the filings we had done. So the full impact of Europe was really not as visible in the fourth quarter because the rebate to client incentive shift was not in place in the fourth quarter.

Costco, yes. We had some of the incentives in this year but clearly it's a full year of Costco so you'll see the full impact. Plus There's a whole bunch of renewals I talked about that really start flowing into next year. Mostly the ones we did in Asia. So it's all these altogether.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Andrew Jeffrey from SunTrust.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks. Appreciate you taking the call. Charlie, its been a pleasure. Bit of a big picture question. I know you've touched on it recently with your block chain announcement.

But this is a big market. Your primary competitor has made a pretty aggressive move into B2B and hedged bets a little bit with the VocaLink acquisition. I wonder if you can just think about the way that a market evolves in your mind, ACH versus cards, and what the tradeoffs might be and what the opportunity is for Visa?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. Listen, I think what's important is that there is this, I'll describe it as really a government-sponsored, whether it's official or not, push towards faster payments. And so when I think about ACH, and we think about what's going on, I think that is the predominant driver because certainly the ACH system here, and others around the world, haven't been able to provide the same kind of -- the level of service as you get from other products or other networks.

And so when we think about what it means for us, we know the capabilities that we have. When we think about what we've done and the way we've positioned ourselves with Visa Direct and getting access on a push-payments basis to three billion cards across the world, we feel really good about the position that we have with those capabilities.

It doesn't mean that, that's all we're thinking about and all that we're doing and you've seen us do some work in, as you've mentioned, in the block chain space. Thinking more about where are payments inefficient? And for what we do in our traditional consumer to business world, that's not a problem that needs to get solved today, in terms of what block chain can do. But certainly in the commercial space, it's a very, very inefficient market and there are opportunities to use different technologies to bring some efficiency there.

So the things that we're doing, they are around doing things to improve something that exists. And for the core business of what we do today between consumers and merchants and it will be through consumers-to-consumers. In terms of using our push payment capabilities, it's leveraging the core assets we have that work really well, that have access to these three billion cards across the world.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Chris Donat from Sandler O'Neill.

CHRIS DONAT, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: Good afternoon and thanks for taking my question. Vasant, just wanted to look one more time at the incentive as a percent of gross revenue. In the past few years Visa's given us this range as basically with 100 basis points, just like you've done today.

I'm just trying to make sure that I understand, does this reflect that there's confidence there? And what are the swing factors in that range between 20.5% and 21.5%? Is it mostly Europe or do you got a lot of puts and takes in renewals?

VASANT PRABHU: No, as always, you give a range because there's some things you know. The things you know are the deals that have already been done and what their impact might be based on the assumptions you're making on the revenue side. And if the revenues play out as you expect, then you get the incentives coming in as you expect.

The variability comes from things that are potential renewals during the year or things you have to do along the way because something happens that you didn't expect. So those would be the things that take you to one end of the range or the other.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And also just keep in mind, our incentive deals aren't generally structured as a percentage of gross revenues. Every deal is structured differently. Sometimes there are tiers, sometimes things are based on volumes, they are based on lots of different things.

So we make a bunch of assumptions as to what we think will play out by client in a year and it doesn't always play out that way by client. So a range really is the right way to think about it. And I just think the to-be-continued 100 basis point range is because we know a bunch of it has been signed and it's just a question of how those [bonds] play out. But we do, as Vasant said, we'll sign some new deals throughout the year that will impact those numbers and we make assumptions on what that looks like.

VASANT PRABHU: And as we've said before, there's a lot of focus on incentives and trying to predict them from one quarter to another and in the end what really counts is net revenue. Net revenue is what we essentially keep and take to the bank. And it's net revenue growth that counts.

And there's always going to be some noise in the tradeoff between gross revenues and incentives and there could be shifts from one quarter to another, depending on when renewals happen. The number to focus on is net revenues and we would keep saying that.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Don Fandetti from Citigroup.

DONALD FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Yes, Vasant, now that you've closed on Visa Europe, I was just curious on your confidence level for the consolidation of the processing systems? And if there's any kind of scenario where that could happen a little bit earlier and drive some earlier acceleration at the synergies?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, so far we feel very good about everything going on, and Charlie might want to add some more things, but we feel very good about how the integration is proceeding. So really no surprises on that front and good progress and pretty much have achieved all the things we wanted to achieve at this stage of the game. The technology integration is also off to a good start. As we told you, that is a multi-year integration.

It's too early to tell you that it will be finished sooner but our goal is to get it done as fast as we can. The gating variable there is to minimize any impact on clients, so we will pace it to ensure that the -- this is as easy for clients as we can make it. So we won't rush it if it has -- if it's going to have a negative impact on clients. So that will be the biggest gating variable in the end. I don't know, Charlie if you want to -- ?

CHARLIE SCHARF: One thing I'd add is, I personally have enormous confidence in the work that the technology teams on both sides of the Atlantic are doing. We know how to do these integrations. And remember what these integrations are is -- this is really, in many cases, what we are doing is we're taking the systems that we have at VI, we're looking at what capabilities need to be built into our systems to accommodate Europe's clients and building them out just as we always do on an ongoing basis into the VI systems and do it in a way where everything works as anticipated.

So, our team is extraordinarily professional and I personally just have every level of confidence that they will do that well. And to the timing question, I think this is one where, someone asked the question about -- before about on guidance aggressive or conservative. This is one -- we've been very clear about this, which is we could do this quicker.

It's not a question of us doing the work to build out those additional capabilities. That will be done relative quickly -- relatively quickly. I'm sorry. The real question is, what's the appropriate pace to complete these conversions along with our clients? And what we've said is that we don't intend to rush that.

This is the type of thing that we have to do in a way that fits in with things that work for clients and I think that's just a smart way. I think you'd want us to think about it that way. We'll get plenty of benefits in the next couple years from Europe and there'll be plenty more beyond that, that we should do this the right way.

JACK CARSKY: With that, Laura, we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our last question is from Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRISTOPHER BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Hi. Thanks. Thanks for squeezing me in and best of luck, Charlie. I'm really sorry to see you go. Just wanted ask a question on EMV, [you've been at it] a little over a year and do you feel like -- it's a little bit of a messy process in some ways, but do you feel like we've gotten to a point where EMV is gaining traction?

And if you could have any color commentary on the role changes relative to chargebacks and the $25 limit and how much that's improved the merchant experience with EMV? That would be helpful. Thank you.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Listen, I don't have a lot more to say from what we said on EMV. Just to make it -- give you the update on the numbers in terms of almost 65% of the credit cards and 45% of the debit cards. 1.6 million merchants, which is 40% are accepting them. I think this is a lot of work for sure. It's progressing along a time frame which is faster than we've seen in any other part of the world when they have moved from mag stripe to chip.

We said this last quarter, the quarter before, this is -- today it's the largest chip card market in the world, even though we still have a long way to go. And we -- and you can just -- you see the meaningful impacts on the reduction in fraud when chip-on-chip exists. So there's no question that, as difficult as it is, that it's the right thing to do.

And it will just take a period of time as these tails continue to complete the conversions. And while we continue to complete the EMV rollouts in the US, I can assure you that we are working really diligently, as are -- well I will say we're doing this in partnership with everyone, including acquirers, issuers, merchants, everyone in the ecosystem, to think through what's next, which is certainly looking at the online world, but also continuing to look at encryption and new ways of authentication in the physical world.

JACK CARSKY: And with that, we want to thank you all for joining us today and if you have any follow-up questions feel free to call investor relations.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thanks, everyone.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's conference. Thank you all for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161025ecao004h6
  


 HD
 Q3  2016  Visa  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,835 words
   PD
21 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa's fiscal third quarter 2016 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

   TD
JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA, INC.: Thanks, Carrie. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal third quarter earnings conference call. With us today are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer; and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's CFO. This call is currently being webcast over the Internet and is accessible on the Investor Relations site of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will be archived on our site for 90 days. A PowerPoint deck containing the financial and statistical highlights of today's call have been posted to our IR website.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could materially differ as a result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

Finally, for historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and any other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the Financial and Statistical Summary accompanying today's press release. With that, I'll turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA, INC.: Thank you very much, Jack, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking the time. There's a series of topics that I'm going to discuss today. Talk a little bit about third-quarter results, a few comments about our European acquisition, going to talk about litigation, going to make some comments about the agreement we signed with PayPal today. I have a series of business updates that I'm going to walk through, and then just a few sentences on the future before I turn it over to Vasant.

First of all, with the closing of our Visa Europe acquisition, as you can see if you look through the numbers, the quarter is somewhat complicated. But we tried to be as clear as we can in explaining the results. I want to start by saying that we're pleased with our continued consistent and predictable results in the face of an unchanged economic environment and increased geopolitical risks. To that point, the consumer has remained remarkably steadfast in the face of significant global instability.

Getting on to the results, we reported GAAP EPS of $0.17 per share, and adjusted EPS of $0.69 per share. This includes several special items related to the acquisition of Visa Europe. Vasant will discuss in further detail, but we view these as non-recurring items, and are not a reflection of business performance.

On an adjusted basis, net operating revenue grew 3% nominally, or 6% on a constant-currency basis, reflecting a continued negative 3 percentage point impact from FX, and in line with expectations we discussed last quarter. Our growth continues to be subdued by similar themes we have previously spoken about, such as the strength of the US dollar on translation and cross-border volumes, continued low oil prices, and weakness in China and oil-based economies. However, US spend remained steady, as does other domestic spend.

Overall, payments volume, cross-border volume growth, and processed transaction growth was similar to last quarter. The following numbers do not include Europe. US payments volume growth was 10%, basically unchanged from last quarter after adjusting for leap year. International payments volume growth was 11%, down from 14% last quarter, driven almost entirely by lower domestic transactions in China that yield very little revenue. Cross-border volume growth was 5% unchanged. Processed transaction growth was 10%, an acceleration of 1 point, due to lapping of Russia's [NSPCA] migration.

More recently, though, through July 14, US payment volume growth was 11%. US credit grew 18%, driven almost entirely by the positive impact of Costco and USAA. Debit growth, on the other hand, moderated considerably, falling from 8% in fiscal Q3 to 3% through July 14. The decline was driven primarily by Interlink.

About 1/3 of the decline is due to the lapping of very high growth at one of our large issuers who added Interlink to their cards last year, and the remainder is due to dynamic routing decisions. The decline due to the lapping will continue for another three quarters, while the remainder is volatile as merchants and acquirers make routing decisions dynamically.

Cross-border growth through July 14 is up 156%, but that's inclusive of Europe in the July 14 period. For comparability, if you include Europe in both periods, through July 14 growth is 12%, versus 8% in the third quarter. The increase is driven by the timing of Ramadan, and improvements that we see in the US and Asia. Processed transactions rose 42% including Europe. If you include Europe in both periods, then processed transactions are flat at 11%.

Moving on to Europe, just a couple comments. We're very happy to have closed the acquisition on June 21. We are well into the integration process. We have a Management team in place which provides a great deal of consistency. We've developed an integrated Management approach, and the teams are working extremely well together. We hosted 500 clients the week after the close in Europe, where we showcased the benefits of a combined Visa to those clients. We've implemented an integrated approach to global and multi-region clients. We're working through product and digital road maps, ensuring Europe is appropriately prioritized within Visa.

Regarding Brexit, just make a couple of comments. First of all, with Brexit or without Brexit, it does not change our long-term view that the strategic rationale for putting these two companies together makes extraordinary sense. Also want to just remind people that they had a put. In that scenario, a negotiated transaction is a far better approach than having someone exercise a put at a time which is out of your control.

Certainly in the short term, currency weakness and reduced economic growth are factors. We haven't seen much impact yet, but time will tell. We still feel good about our ability to deliver the accretion that we discussed, and Vasant will review that in more detail in his comments.

Let me quickly touch on legal matters now. The recent decision by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals to reverse the approval of our multi-district litigation class settlement is certainly disappointing. These cases were originally filed in 2005, and we continued to believe that the settlement was fair and reasonable for all stakeholders.

However, the appeals court found that there were conflicts of interest between the two merchant settlement classes, a class that would have received money for alleged past damages, and a class that would receive the benefit of certain changes to our network rules going forward. The court concluded that the conflict of interest between these classes meant that the classes were inadequately represented for purposes of settlement.

It will take some time for the impact of this ruling to be determined, and there may be further appeals. Meanwhile, Visa continues to honor the terms of the class settlement agreement, which remains in effect, and did not terminate automatically because of the court's ruling. For example, Visa has not reversed its rule change permitting US merchants to surcharge credit transactions. The funds that Visa paid pursuant to the class settlement remain in court-supervised escrow accounts.

If the Court of Appeals decision remains after any further appeals, the matter will resume in the lower federal court, where we will defend the case, and in time likely make a renewed effort to settle with the merchant classes. It is too early to speculate what shape that might take. However, I note that the US retrospective responsibility plan continues to provide protection against monetary claims in the class litigation.

As you know, a number of merchants have opted out of the class and filed their own complaints, and we're continuing to defend those claims which have not yet already been settled. The district court has set a status conference on August 11, where we hope to obtain further clarity about next steps in both the class action and opt-out cases. But this will likely go on for some time.

Finally, I should note that all the individual settlements we've entered into with opt-out merchants remain in effect despite the court's ruling, and regardless of the direction of any further appeals. The only exception is our settlement with Walmart, which was contingent upon the class settlement being affirmed. Its status will be determined after we have a final non-appealable decision in the class settlement.

Let me move on and talk about PayPal now. Earlier we announced a new strategic partnership with PayPal. The partnership will result in significantly improved payment experiences for Visa card holders in the PayPal and Venmo wallets. The partnership is designed to deliver significant benefits for Visa's issuing financial institutions, including a significantly better experience for their customers, more spending volume on their credit and debit cards, lower operational costs, and improved security. Merchants will also benefit from improved customer experiences, efficiency and security, which together should help drive increased sales.

The details include the following. First of all, enhanced consumer choice and improved experience for Visa card holders. PayPal will make it easier for new and existing customers to choose to pay with their Visa cards, and ensure a more seamless experience. Visa cards will be presented as a clear and equal payment option during enrollment and subsequent payments, with an easy ability for consumers to set as their preferred payment method.

Visa digital card images will be incorporated into payment flows. Paypal will not encourage Visa card holders to link to a bank account via ACH. Paypal will also support and work with issuers to identify consumers who choose to migrate existing ACH payment flows to their Visa cards.

Consumers will also be able to instantly withdraw and move money from their PayPal and Venmo accounts to their bank account via their Visa debit cards leveraging Visa Direct, providing experience that offers speed, security, and convenience.

An important aspect of our agreement is enhanced data quality. PayPal will ensure that the data provided to issuers and their cardholders for Visa-funded transactions will be consistent with the information that is received with traditional Visa card transactions. This will ensure a better consumer experience, reduced cardholder confusion, ensure proper application of rewards, and reduce costly and time-consuming disputes.

PayPal will join the Visa digital enablement program, what we refer to as VDEP, to enable them to expand their point of sale acceptance. This is a commercial framework for Visa partners to access our token services and other digital capabilities in the United States. Consistent with VDEP, issuers will be able to choose whether to participate or not.

The agreement affords PayPal certain economic incentives, including Visa incentives for increased volume, and greater long-term Visa fee certainty. Importantly, Visa issuers will have a 12-month period of exclusivity for promoting their cards that are within PayPal's wallets. The partnership puts PayPal and Visa on a new, constructive path forward, and provides a framework for our companies to work together collaboratively.

A couple of notes about some client activity. We're pleased to announce that we renewed a multi-year agreement with TD in the United States and Canada for continued Visa credit and debit issuance. Regions Bank, a long-time Visa client, renewed a multi-year credit and debit agreement. Chevron, one of the world's leading energy companies, renewed a multi-year credit co-brand with Visa.

As I'm sure you know, on June 20, Visa credit cards became exclusively accepted at Costco US and Puerto Rico warehouse locations and fuel stations, and the new Costco Anywhere Visa card by Citi launched. This has been a long, complex process, but we're very encouraged by the results so far.

Outside of North America, Home Plus, the second largest retailer in South Korea, with branch and home delivery services, renewed a multi-year co-brand program across multiple issuers supporting PayWave. In Taiwan, we renewed a multi-year credit co-brand agreement with Taishin Bank, one of the largest co-brand programs in the market. In Indonesia, we renewed a multi-year debit agreement with Mandiri, who is the largest state-owned bank in the country.

Moving on to EMV in the US. Nine months out from the official kickoff to chip in the US, we continue on the journey from mag-stripe to chip, and the US is now the largest chip market in the world. More than 326 million Visa chip cards were issued as of June 2016, making the US, as I said, the largest in the world, and larger than the UK and Brazil combined. 58% of credit cards and 37% of debit cards have a chip on them today.

More than 1.3 million merchants now have chip-enabled terminals, or roughly 28% of all merchant locations. Based on client surveys, we expect 75% of credit cards, 55% of debit cards, representing 96% and 73% of volume respectively, and roughly 45% to 50% of merchant locations will be enabled with EMV by the end of calendar 2016.

Having said all of this, this is a huge effort and we're doing a series of things to help make this process move more quickly and more smoothly. To that end, Visa announced a series of initiatives to help accelerate EMV chip migration for merchants. We've streamlined our testing requirements. We amended and simplified the terminal certification process. We committed to investing further resources and technical expertise in a manner that can reduce time frames by as much as 50%. We are also making policy changes to help limit exposure to counterfeit fraud liability for merchants who are not yet chip ready.

Do want to say a few things about our relationship with US merchants. We continue to invest in people, products, and solutions to help our merchant clients grow their business and reduce their cost. We made good progress on this front with many of our merchant clients, though it's early days, and this a long-term commitment on our part. You have read, surely, about some of the disputes we have with some merchants. We are committed to doing everything reasonable to resolve these issues, and we're committed to continue strengthening our relationship with all merchants.

As we continue to expand Visa Checkout around the world, we're constantly working to perfect the user experience and to deliver on our promise to make paying with Visa in the digital world as easy as it's been to pay in the physical world for more than 50 years. We've rolled out the new Visa Checkout experience to all of our merchants globally. Working with dozens of our top US merchants, we updated the Checkout experience to simplify the sign-up process for consumers to enroll, add cards, and manage their information with more fluid interactions and smart auto-fill capabilities.

We also have begun to roll out an interactive Checkout button, allowing customers to enter their password right into the Checkout button, and confirm Checkout with a single tap. Most of these features will be automatically available, which means merchants do not have to make any adjustments to their existing online checkout processes or payment systems.

As we head into the Rio Olympics, we used the global sponsor platform to highlight Visa Checkout and its merchants, including Best Buy and United Airlines, with whom we've created Olympic-themed ads that you'll likely see on TV in the US in the coming weeks.

As we continue to look forward and drive new technologies in the payment space, as you know, we opened an innovation center in our San Francisco headquarters, which has served as a destination for clients, partners, and developers to see our new payments technologies, and work along side us and our experts, and jointly create the next generation of payment and commerce applications. We've had great success, and we've committed to expand the number of facilities so we can be closer to our clients.

To that end, in April we opened our Singapore Innovation Center; in May we opened one in Dubai; and in June we opened one in Miami, all of which will serve our clients, partners, and developers in that region, and act as a hub to jointly create the next generation of payment commerce applications.

Accessible to both local and global clients, all these innovation centers will provide our partners with access to Visa APIs and software development kits available through our Visa Developer Platform. We also have an Innovation Center in London, and have plans to open others in 2017.

We announced yesterday that we'll be opening a new facility in Palo Alto later this year. The office will house work that we do around data, business intelligence, technology research, and merchant solutions. We decided to open this facility following on the great success that we've seen with our San Francisco and Bangalore facilities.

We found that the combination of location, physical design, and co-worker co-location concentration are critical in our quest to continue to lead and innovate. All of these new locations provide opportunities to draw talent from communities that have concentrations of skills different from each other, and allows Visa to benefit from the diversity of people and ideas in these very different communities.

We announced a new $5 billion share re-purchase program. This brings the total available for share re-purchases to $7.3 billion. This is a reflection of our confidence in our business, our commitment to offset the dilution from the preferred stock issued to Visa Europe members, and our continuing commitment to return excess capital to shareholders.

Before I turn the call over to Vasant, just a few words about the future. You can see that we provided full-year guidance on a GAAP and an adjusted GAAP basis, as required. We've tried to give you a clear indication of the impact of Europe in the fourth quarter. On an adjusted basis, and without the impact of Europe, we reaffirmed all of our 2016 guidance metrics. You will hear from Vasant, but we're still confident in our ability to achieve the accretion from the European transaction we shared at the time of the announcement.

Looking ahead, we expect next quarter's results to improve modestly, similar to first half of the year's results. We'll provide more commentary on 2017 in October, but our underlying business is strong, and with the lapping effect of several items, based on what we know today and assuming similar consumer spending patterns, we feel good about our ability to produce stronger revenue and earnings growth. With that, I'll turn the call over to Vasant.

VASANT PRABHU, CFO, VISA, INC.: Thank you, Charlie. In a world that's turbulent, both from a macroeconomic and geopolitical standpoint, our business remains steady and resilient. A few points to note. Net revenues grew 6% in constant dollars, and 3% in nominal dollars, at the high end of the range we had given you. Key business trends, payments volumes, processed transactions, and cross-border transactions remain stable. Currency volatility stayed high, especially post the Brexit vote. As expected, client incentives are almost 19% of gross revenue.

Once again we had good expense management. Expenses declined 7% in the quarter on an adjusted basis, and are flat year to date versus 2015. Lower personnel and marketing costs contributed to lower than projected expenses in the quarter.

Non-GAAP EPS in Q3 was $0.69, after you adjust for our GAAP EPS of $0.17 for four significant Visa-Europe-related non-recurring items. First, a $1.9 billion loss related to the settlement of the Visa Europe framework agreement as part of our acquisition of Visa Europe. Second, a $92 million stamp duty paid to the UK Treasury recorded in general and administrative expenses.

Third, $60 million in transaction-related expenses recorded in professional fees. Fourth, a net gain of $103 million, as we accumulated euros leading up to the closing of the transaction, which is recorded in non-operating income. You might recall we had a similar gain of $116 million last quarter, which we also excluded from our reported EPS as a non-GAAP adjustment.

Now a quick review of the quarter's business drivers. Global payments volume in constant dollars grew 10%, roughly in line with the prior quarter, when you adjust for the leap day. US payments volume picked up modestly, adjusted for the leap day, as we start to benefit from USAA and Costco conversions, which helped credit growth to exceed debit growth in the US.

International payment volume growth of 11% ticked down modestly. The strong dollar continued to weigh on international payment volumes. Nominal growth was 5%. Despite Brexit, an oil price collapse, commodity market weakness, a slow-down in China, terrorism and other destabilizing forces, payment volumes have remained stable for most of this year.

Cross-border volumes grew 5% in constant dollars, a modest step-up from a leap-day-adjusted second quarter. As the strengthening trend in the dollar has moderated, we have seen a reduction in the rate of decline in our large US acquired business, and in outbound commerce from Canada. However, this improvement is largely offset by a continuing slow-down of outbound commerce from China, down from 50% growth rates in Q3 last year, to barely positive right now. Cross-border commerce from oil and commodity-based economies remains sluggish.

Processed transactions totaled $19.8 billion in the quarter, up 10%. US growth was 11%, and international growth was 7%. As expected, international processed transaction growth rates are stepping up as we lap the transfer of domestic processing to NSBK in Russia.

As you know, these numbers are not inclusive of Visa Europe. In our operational package this quarter, we have included a schedule that provides you with a five-quarter history of the European geographies' payment volume and transaction statistics.

If we add these to our Q3 metrics, both to this year and last, constant-dollar global payment volume growth would be 9%; cross-border volume constant growth calculated based on merchant currencies -- merchant country currencies, would be 8%; and processed transaction growth would be 11%. Of course starting next quarter we will incorporate Europe as a new region in our operational performance data package.

Moving on to our financial metrics, service revenues grew 6%, roughly in line with nominal payments volume growth. The reduction in the growth rate from the last quarter was anticipated, as we lapped pricing increases from last year. Data processing revenue grew 10%, in line with processed transaction growth. International revenues grew 4%, generally in line with volume growth, as we lapped our price increases, and the drag of the strong dollar moderates. Fortunately, currency volatility stayed high, and comparable to the highs reached last year. Post the Brexit vote, volatilities reached levels we have not experienced in recent years.

Incentives were in line with our expectations. As we indicated, the significant year-over-year increase was driven by an unusually low level of incentives in the third quarter of 2015. Incentives as a percentage of gross revenues approached 19%, and will tick up further in Q4 as Costco incentives kick in. This will bring full-year client incentives as a percent of gross revenues to around 18.5%, the high end of the 17.5% to 18.5% range that we had provided you.

With expense growth down 7% and a tax rate of 30.4%, our run rate EPS was $0.69, after making the four Visa-Europe-related adjustments I described. As a reminder, there is no Visa Europe revenue, expense, or income in our Q3 numbers. Had we included Visa Europe results for the nine days we owned it in the quarter, it would have added a de minimis $12 million to our net income.

Some Visa Europe related considerations. The European leadership team is in place, as Charlie said, and running the business. The business is performing as expected, and integration activities have commenced. The employee consultation process, which is required by law before any restructuring of operations, is under way in the UK. The technology harmonization program has also been launched.

We are moving fast to bring Visa's global capabilities to European customers, including Visa Checkout, Visa Token Service, Visa Direct, as well as our consulting resources. Significant customer relationships have already been renewed, and others are in process. We believe our customers are excited by what a global Visa can offer them.

Visa Europe members have been informed that rebates will be terminated at the end of September 2016. We are working with our customers to transition to commercial relationships with competitive client incentive programs, as we have elsewhere in the world. This will be a multi-year process, but the early results have been positive.

The longer-term impact of Brexit on Visa Europe's business is too early to determine. The immediate impact has been on exchange rates. The weaker pound and euro will hurt revenues as reported in dollars. However, a significant portion of Visa Europe's expenses are currently denominated in pounds, which offsets the negative revenue impact. Given the relative values of the pound and the euro at this point, the net impact of Visa Europe earnings as reported in dollars is roughly neutral right now.

Brexit has also introduced significant uncertainty, which is never good for business sentiment. Most economic prognosticators are expecting an economic slow-down in Europe. Beyond this, it is too early to know what the broader and longer-term implications of Brexit are for our businesses.

Assuming exchange rates stay where they are today and there are no major economic dislocations as a result of Brexit, we expect Visa Europe earnings to offset interest expense from debt in the fourth quarter of FY16, as we told you last quarter. Visa Europe is expected to add 2% to 3% to EPS accretion in FY17, in line with the low-single-digit accretion we had anticipated.

Our accretion estimate assumes the current tax structure stays in place through FY17. Under this structure, Visa Europe is a US taxpayer. This tax structure is favorable from a cash tax standpoint. However, the current tax structure results in a high reported or book tax rate for Visa Europe's earnings. This will add approximately 1 percentage point to Visa's reported tax rate in FY17. As always, we will be working on plans to improve both our cash and reported tax rates over time.

Visa Europe has over $2 billion of cash on its balance sheet. Based on discussions with our regulator in the UK, we will leave this cash within the Visa Europe legal entity. As a result of this action and due to the higher up-front cash consideration after we eliminated the earn-out provision, we will issue additional debt later this year to fund stock buy-backs to offset dilution from preferred stock issued in the transaction. Our current plan is to issue at least $2 billion in debt before the end of this calendar year.

As we indicated, we plan to offset the dilutive impact of the preferred shares issued by buying stock in excess of our normal buy-back program. We have been buying stock back as a stepped-up base for the past two quarters in anticipation of the closing of the transaction. We plan to continue buying at this pace until we've bought back sufficient stock to offset the impact of the shares issued. We expect that we will be done by the end of the first quarter of FY18.

In the third quarter, we recognized a $1.9 billion loss related to the Visa Europe framework agreement. Under US GAAP as part of our accounting for the Visa Europe acquisition, we are required to assess all pre-existing contractual relationships between Visa Europe and Visa. If the terms of those agreements are determined to not be at fair value at the time of the close, a portion of the purchase price paid in the transaction is deemed to relate to the effective settlement of these arrangements between the parties.

The Visa Europe framework agreement was established in October 2007 between Visa and Visa Europe as part of our 2007 reorganization. This agreement provides Visa Europe with a perpetual exclusive right to operate the Visa business in the European Union in exchange for a license fee paid to Visa.

Under the terms of the framework agreement, the license fee paid by Visa Europe has increased modestly since 2007. However, the value of the Visa Europe business has increased at a greater rate. As such, Management concluded that the terms of the framework agreement were not at fair value as determined under US GAAP at the time of the close. We estimated the value of settling the framework agreement at $1.9 billion.

The size of this settlement value is driven by the fact that the agreement was perpetual in nature, and would have continued indefinitely had the acquisition not occurred. Under US GAAP, $1.9 billion of total consideration transferred to VE in the transaction is immediately charged to the income statement as a one-time, non-recurring operating expense representing the cost of settling this arrangement.

Had this arrangement not existed, or its terms been at fair value, this amount would have been allocated to net assets acquired. This would have resulted in $1.9 billion additional goodwill recorded in the transaction.

Our third-quarter balance sheet includes Visa Europe. In a few days we'll be filing our 10-Q, which will provide considerable detail on all aspects of the accounting for the Visa Europe transaction, allocation of the purchase price to net tangible assets and liabilities and to intangible assets and goodwill, as well as the impact of Visa Europe on cash and working capital balances. We would of course be happy to answer any questions you have after you review the 10-Q.

Moving to our outlook for the fourth quarter and the impact of Visa Europe, we expect nominal net revenue growth in Q4 for the legacy Visa business not including Visa Europe of around 5% to 6%, in line with the first-half trends. Q3 growth rates were depressed by unfavorable year-over-year comparisons on client incentives, which will normalize. We're also projecting a modest up-tick in cross-border growth rates, as dollar strength moderates and we lap the slow-down from last year. Visa Europe will add 13 to 14 points to fourth quarter net revenue growth.

We expect 2% to 3% expense growth for legacy Visa in Q4 from Rio-related marketing and higher technology project spend. Visa Europe will add as much as 15 to 16 points to expense growth. As I mentioned earlier, and in line with what we told you last quarter, Visa Europe income should offset debt interest expense in the fourth quarter. For the year, our key guidance metrics for legacy Visa remain largely unchanged. Visa Europe will add 3 to 4 points of growth to both revenue and expenses.

The concentration process is under way in Europe. We're also looking at adjustments to our global cost base as we integrate Europe. Assuming our plans are finalized, we expect to take a restructuring charge in the fourth quarter to re-size our global cost structure as a result of the Visa Europe acquisition. As we've said previously, the technology integration will happen later. We will regularly update you on progress.

A quick word on FY17. As we normally do, we will provide our comprehensive perspective on 2017 when we talk to you in late October. As we look ahead, we feel good about our business and what Visa Europe will add to it. There are as always tail winds and head winds.

In the tail winds column, payments volume uplift from USAA and Costco, two significant drags look likely to ease gas prices and the dollar translation impact. Cross-border growth could improve as dollar strength moderates; and last but not least, accretion from Visa Europe.

In the head winds column, continuing global uncertainty, both economic and geopolitical, the impact of Brexit on Europe, China slow-down, and market-entry costs. On balance, we anticipate 2017 will be a year with healthy top- and bottom-line growth for Visa. With that, I'll turn this back to Jack.

JACK CARSKY: Thank you, Vasant. Operator, at this time we are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Our first question is from Mr. Tom McCrohan of CLSA. Your line is now open.

TOM MCCROHAN, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, thank you. A question on the PayPal agreement. One of the aspects of the agreement seems to be focused on having Visa being more of the default payment option, funding option, on the PayPal account. Today, what is Visa's share as a default funding option for PayPal accounts? Where do you believe this new agreement is going to move that share? What happens at the end of the 12-month period, exclusivity period, if Visa doesn't get the share that you expect it to get as a result of your negotiations? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me do a couple things, and Jack can chime in here, too. Relative to what we make up of a PayPal wallet, you really have to ask PayPal that question. We know what we know. We have some general thoughts, but they really can be the ones and should be the ones.

Generally, what we've always thought is that roughly half the transactions that run you through PayPal run through a network, and we're roughly half or so of that, split between credit and debit. Those are -- I would call those gross approximations and directional. You really need to talk to them.

Relative to what happens in terms of the flows, again, if you go you through what I said, what we really are interested in doing is to ensure that Visa cards are on a level playing field. If they're on a level playing field, we feel great about our ability to increase the amount of volume that run over Visa cards, and ultimately benefit our clients. What the agreement does is it enables that to occur.

There's a period of time where we will work actively together and exclusively to move volume from ACH back on to Visa cards, if that's what the client wants to do. To the extent that happens, net-net that's a financial plus for us. As part of this agreement, as we've said, there are incentives that we will pay, Visa incentives that we will pay to PayPal. If those numbers aren't reached, then the incentives don't get paid.

The last thing I do want to say is partnership agreements work when there's alignment for everyone. We've had extensive conversations over a long period of time with PayPal, with our issuers, and other members of the payments community. What we've tried to do here is to come up with something that really does work for everyone.

Where we could sit here and say this is all about driving growth in the electronic payments universe. Because we're creating better customer experiences, where they're allowed to use products that they want to use, where they get all the benefits of those products are, get a seamless experience through PayPal, these products become a better alternative to cash and check, and other alternatives out there.

The way we see it, we've given ourselves an opportunity to grow. We've given PayPal an opportunity to grow. Most importantly, we've given from our perspective as Visa, our clients an ability, an opportunity to grow, and provide a better experience for their consumers.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Tom. Operator, next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from David Togut of Evercore ISI. Your line is now open.

DAVID TOGUT, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thanks, and congratulations on completing the Visa Europe acquisition. Now that you own Visa Europe, can you update us on your thoughts with respect to the pricing opportunity there to move Visa Europe's prices over time closer to MasterCard's which are currently at a significant premium?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, I don't think there's much that we're going to add that we haven't said before on that. In the process of moving to a commercial enterprise, we obviously know what the market is. But we're also keenly aware that pricing should be reflective of value that's added. I think that's a conversation that we'll have directly with our clients, and when it's appropriate, we'll talk more broadly about it.

DAVID TOGUT: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Jason Kupferberg of Jefferies. Your line is now open.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Great. Thanks, guys. Maybe just a quick clarification, and then a question. Are you still expecting high-single-digit EPS accretion from Visa Europe in FY20? Then my question just on the PayPal agreement, it looks like it's US only. Is there still something potentially in the works for non-US, as well?

CHARLIE SCHARF: On PayPal, it is US only. I think we're each in the position where we'd like to turn our attention outside the US. But we wanted to get the US done first.

VASANT PRABHU: On the Visa Europe accretion, no, there's no change in our expectations for the long term.

JASON KUPFERBERG: Perfect, thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Jason. Next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Darrin Peller of Barclays. Your line is now open.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, guys. Thanks for the update. Just want to go back to the timing you mentioned before around tail winds. You mentioned a number of renewals also around large clients in your remarks. Incentives and rebates broadly were thought to be timed for the Costco and USAA deals, I think early, followed by then revenue coming on the next couple of quarters. Can you just provide us an update with the timing on those, as the incentives are now flowing through. Should we get the revenue off that in the next few quarters? Also, other types of incentives coming with those renewals. Is there going to be any type of spike on that going forward? Thanks guys.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, I guess you were referring to the head winds and tail winds comments I had made. Yes, there was no -- there was nothing there about renewals as it relates to next year. There is a normal course of renewals that we would do in the course of the year.

In terms of incentives kicking in, as I mentioned, Costco incentives will definitely kick in meaningfully in the fourth quarter, with a quarter lag. As you know, service revenues kick in a quarter later. You will see in our gross revenues an up-tick in the rate of growth, both from USAA and Costco. Of course, there will be an up-tick also on the incentive line.

The net of all that, we'll talk about all that as we talk more comprehensively about 2017. Other than that, I don't think there was anything else I said that you were talking about. That pretty much explains the comments on 2017.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Dan Perlin of RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. I just had a question on the PayPal Visa agreement. The participation now in VDEP, I just want to be clear, that does now qualify them for a different interchange tier which would be lower. Then the incentive fee that you're talking about, just so I'm clear, that's coming out of your -- that would come out of your contra revenue? Do we need to be contemplating that more significantly in 2017?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I just want to be -- so VDEP, a couple of things on VDEP. What we've done is we have agreed with PayPal that they will have the ability to access Visa tokens. But in order to do that, they have to work with the financial institutions, and they have to agree to provide those tokens. What we've done is think of it like we've enabled PayPal to have those discussions directly with the issuers, and that's up to the issuers to determine whether or not they would like to do that.

DAN PERLIN: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Moshe Katri of Sterne Agee. Your line is now open.

MOSHE KATRI, ANALYST, STERNE AGEE CRT: Thanks. Just going back to Visa Europe, your large competitor is talking about opportunities for them to gain some share in Europe. Maybe you can give us some color on any sort of potential churn that you're seeing in that business, and what are we doing to kind of protect that down the road? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Listen, there are a lot of people that do a lot of talking out there, and that's fine. We spend a lot of time talking to our clients and working actively with them on delivering value day in and day out, and letting the results speak for themselves.

I would say that from the moment that we've announced the transaction, I think we're extremely comfortable with the renewal activity that's taken place in Europe. The team in Europe, I would tell you, has -- our team in Europe -- has delivered everything that they said they would deliver to us. That has continued in the period after the close.

Our conversations with clients, I feel, are exactly what we want them to be, which is they are very excited about having the opportunity to get access to the capabilities that the global Visa can bring, which Visa Europe was not able to bring. There are a lot of things that they liked about Visa Europe that encouraged them to do business with Visa Europe over a long period of time with those relationships, and we bring additional capabilities.

I look at the environment and say listen, everywhere we compete across the world, you have to show up with better products day in and day out, and that's what we're able to do in Europe. Until I see anything different than what we've seen, I'm going to continue to feel great about where we are.

MOSHE KATRI: Helpful, thanks.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Moshe. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Next question is from Chris Brendler of Stifel. Your line is now open.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Hi, thanks. Good afternoon. I want to ask a question on your comments around Interlink and dynamic routing. Can you refresh our memory, to what extent the landscape has changed recently, what's causing the increased dynamic routing? My sense is there's some merchants who are using chip cards to take advantage of not just routing on PIN, but also routing on signature. Wanted to see if you could potentially also discuss any legals aspects of the Kroger lawsuit as it relates to forcing consumers to choose PIN. Thank you.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Well, I'm not going to talk about anything regarding any ongoing litigation that we have, which I think is what you'd expect. But I'd say the following things. I think as we go through the conversion to EMV, there are just -- there are a lot of moving pieces, especially in the debit world. With terminals having to be reprogrammed, new terminals out there, multiple applications embedded on chips and things like that, and merchants turning on PIN pads at different times from times when they've actually turned on the EMV reader.

There's a lot of movement between signature and PIN which is somewhat different than he we would have seen in a steady-state environment, and that will play itself out. That's not a plus or a minus, there's just movement there, and that's just the reality of what happens during a conversion like this.

What we see is ultimately, we just want our consumers to have the ability to use the cards. Merchants have whatever abilities that Durbin has given them. We've -- and they've had those capabilities ever since Durbin was passed. A big part of that is they have the ability to choose the routing preference. As we've seen since Durbin came into place, quarter by quarter there's just a whole series of things that impact where a merchant wants to route to. People give them incentives, who's incentives they think they're going to hit or not hit, help them decide where they want to route to and route away from.

The Interlink volumes that we see, and we look at it regularly, are very volatile. Keep in mind that the numbers that I talked about, which had that decrease, they're two weeks. Someone can make a change in a routing table. We can see a very big impact. That can also change two or three weeks from now, based upon what we do relative to incentives and things like that. That is the way the business works, and I think that's the way Durbin intended -- the Durbin Amendment intended it to work.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, operator?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Bill Carcache of Nomura. Your line is now open.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES COMPANY, LTD.: Thank you. Charlie, I wanted to follow up on your comment about Visa issuers having -- I believe you said 12 months of exclusivity to promote their brands on PayPal. Do you have a sense for what would lead issuers to want to take advantage of that period of exclusivity? Do you expect -- you touched on this earlier, but maybe a different way of asking the question is do you expect that the partnership agreement's going to drive a little bit more of a shift in the mix of PayPal volumes funded by Visa products?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, listen, the way I'd put it is I think -- first of all, it's completely up to the issuers on whether or not they want to proactively work with ourselves and/or PayPal. Again, we're not telling any issuer they have to do anything. But what we've heard consistently from issuers -- and I certainly experienced it when I was at one -- is that ACH is a really bad thing. You're dis-intermediated. It's a bad customer experience. They don't understand the process to dispute things. Call centers don't understand information and things like that. Given a choice, you'd rather have a transaction run over a Visa debit or credit product rather than ACH.

I would assume that most issuers would choose to want to actively engage to try and move those transactions on to cards, which quite frankly consumers know, love, understand, and are very comfortable with how those products work. During this period of time, PayPal wants to work actively with us, because to the extent that consumers want to do this -- again, I can't speak for them, but consumer choice is an important part of the discussion in the press release. That's what this actually provides.

Again, the way we look at just as the network, the way we look at what we've done in this agreement is we've taken -- we've tried to work with PayPal in partnership to take away the things that discourage people from working together, and take away the things that create bad customer experiences. When you do that in anything, hopefully you wind up with a position where people actually work together. If you don't even just get back to -- it should produce a higher level of growth coming from some place else. Whether that comes from other networks, cash, check, any alternatives out there, we don't know.

That's what this agreement is. It's about taking those bad things out, providing a better consumer experience, and then the consumers will ultimately choose what they want to use. Again, as I said, we feel very comfortable that we'll do quite well in an environment like that, as our clients will.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Bill. Operator, next question?

OPERATOR: Next question is from Don Fandetti of Citigroup.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Yes. Charlie, MasterCard's buying VocaLink. I was curious if that has any incremental impact to you. Obviously, you dominate debit in UK. I wanted to get your thoughts there. Also, related to that, any early views on PSD2, and what that might mean to your debit volumes.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, listen, obviously they just announced it this morning, so it's very early. I would say, and I honestly haven't had a chance to read what they've actually written, but I'll just say a couple of things. I think the same goes true for PSD2, which is we as a network are successful not because we offer extremely-low-priced commodity services with very little value-add. It's the exact opposite of that.

The ability for us to have grown the business that we've grown around the world is all about delivering value-added services, whether it's fraud protection, risk scoring, work on marketing, all those things, that's ultimately why people choose networks. As I've said, that's something that we need to deliver both -- not just to issuers, but ultimately to merchants, either directly or through the acquiring community.

To the extent that we do that, whoever we compete with, because remember, we've competed -- we competed with PayPal, which has had another way of doing business here; and in the physical world we've done quite well, and felt very comfortable with our ability to compete in the online world as we've developed these solutions.

For us, it's about creating that value, delivering on innovation. I wouldn't underestimate the work that we have done at Visa on fast funds, push payments, and things that we're doing both in developed parts of the world and emerging parts of the world.

Regardless of who buys what out there, those are activities that we had under way because there's tremendous opportunity. I think those are the things that will allow us to compete not just with an acquisition out there, but the types of people that will be able to insert themselves into the payment flow because of PSD2.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Don. Operator, next question?

OPERATOR: Next question is from Lisa Ellis of Bernstein. Your line is you now open.

LISA ELLIS, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hi. Good afternoon, guys. It looks like Visa Europe's volume growth decelerated again this quarter and has -- on top of I think a deceleration last quarter. Can you just talk about, now that you've seen under the hood a bit, what's been driving the deceleration in their volume growth, and how you expect that to look going forward, both now that you own the asset, as well as in the wake of the regulatory changes in Europe? Thanks.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, Lisa. Visa Europe's growth has generally tracked well with what we had anticipated. The business is performing pretty much exactly as we expected, if not a little better. We've seen some -- it's very early to assess the impact of Brexit. We haven't seen much change. We've seen only the exchange-rate impacts, which I talked to you about earlier.

We've seen some modest impacts on the cross-border business, as you would expect. In-bound commerce into Europe and the UK in particular is picking up as a result of the exchange-rate moves most likely, especially from Asia. Outbound from the UK is relatively stable in transaction terms; but as you would expect, when the currency moves there is an impact on the ticket itself. But other than that, the business is performing almost exactly in line with expectations.

JACK CARSKY: Operator, next question, please?

OPERATOR: Next question is from Sanjay Sakhrani of KBW. Your line is now open.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: Thank you, good evening. Quick question on PayPal again. Is it safe to assume that you guys had conversations with the banks, and that they were involved in the framework of a potential deal with them? Then maybe my follow-up related is if the issuer tokens aren't used by the banks or applied by the banks, does that change the economic incentives part of the agreement? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: On the second question, no. On the first question, listen, I just -- we have -- like any business, we have clients and we talk to them. Our clients have been very vocal, not in private to us, but publicly about what they've liked and what they haven't liked about the interactions historically with PayPal, as I have been. When asked, I've been very clear about what it is we don't like about PayPal, and I've also been very clear that we think they've developed some great capabilities, have enormous respect for what they've created. If we could fix the bad things, we'd be very excited about working together.

The things that we went about from our standpoint wanting to change are exactly those things. I don't think anyone should be -- I'd be surprised if anyone here is surprised about what those things are. There were some things that were important to PayPal. But as I said, ultimately this is about taking the roadblocks out and creating the opportunity for people to work together. Again, we're not putting anyone in a position where they have to.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Sanjay. Next question, operator?

OPERATOR: Next question is from Bryan Keane of Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. Just two questions. First on looking at one of the head winds, it was market entry cost. I'm assuming that's China. In June, China announced their rules for the networks to enter the market. I'm curious, have you guys submitted your application yet, and the next steps in China? Secondly, Vasant, what has Visa Europe been growing at constant currency, and what is your expectation in the fourth-quarter guidance for Visa Europe constant-currency year-over-year growth in 4Q? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: On China, I would say the clarity that we need to finalize all the information, and submit all the pieces is still coming together. We have submitted pieces of what's required; but there are also some new things that have come forth that we're working through that relate to national security reviews that are going to be necessary, as well as encryption standards, which was something that was new that was added. These are active conversations take we're having with the Chinese government. We continue to do all of our planning so that when we do have clarity, we'll be able to submit everything that we need to.

VASANT PRABHU: In terms of Visa Europe's growth, if you look, there's a schedule in our operational data package -- I think it's on page 6 -- that gives you some historical data on Visa Europe's performance. If you're talking about volume, payment volume, over the past -- let's say the last quarter, constant-dollar payment volume growth was 6.6%. Then over the last year, constant-dollar payment volume growth was a little over 7%. It's been fairly stable, if you look at the numbers for the past several quarters, swings up and down a bit along the way.

We're not expecting anything different. We're clearly monitoring the impact of Brexit to see if there's any impact. It's really not evident at this point. It's minor. We'll have to keep watching it. But as far as related to the fourth quarter, we're not assuming any change in trend.

In terms of its specific impact on us, you see that in the guidance we provided, where we told you that the revenue impact of Visa Europe on the quarter, if you go to the table we have, was 13 to 14 points of additional dollar revenue growth that would be added to our reported numbers because of Visa Europe -- 3 to 4 points of additional revenue growth on the full-year basis. As far as the income impact, we told you last quarter, and we're reiterating that, that Visa Europe's income will offset the debt interest we had. Essentially it will make up for the debt interest in the quarter. That's pretty much it.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Bryan. Operator, next question?

OPERATOR: Next question is from Craig Maurer of Autonomous. Your line is now open.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: Yes, hi. Thanks, and congratulations for closing Visa Europe. I did have a quick question on the PayPal release. I was hoping you could explain how the VDEP portion works and tokenization, how that will enable brick-and-mortar point of sale should an issuer opt in. Are you basically saying that PayPal will have the opportunity to wrap a Visa token within the PayPal wallet and then pass it through to a merchant like an Apple Pay would for Visa card acceptance?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes.

CRAIG MAURER: Okay, so this in no way is enabling Visa to wrap any other type of funding mechanism in a larger Visa tokens for acceptance?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I'm not sure I understand what you're asking, but what you described is exactly what's contemplated. We will -- to the extent that PayPal chooses to create an experience at the physical point of sale, if they can get the issuer to agree, just as an Apple Pay or a Samsung Pay or Android Pay, there can be a token provisioned to a device, and it will be -- the transaction will take place as these other wallet transactions use tokens.

CRAIG MAURER: Right, so this would need to be a bespoke agreement between PayPal and an issuer. Okay, I understand. Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Craig. Operator, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Tien-tsin Huang of JPMorgan. Your line is now open.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks. Thanks, Jack. Kudos for getting this PayPal deal done. I was curious, Charlie, you said I think at our conference that PayPal can't be friend and foe. I was wondering, does this deal mean PayPal is now 100% friend to Visa. Are there outs or end-term dates in the agreement to call out? Also, does the deal change in any way your Visa Checkout strategy? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: The answer is it's a long-term agreement. We feel like we've addressed everything that we wanted to address, and it was a great conversation. We were both trying to get -- again, as I said earlier, what we both wanted to get to was a point that PayPal, ourselves, and the issuers would look at it and say it's something that makes sense for all of us to of work together. That's based upon the fact that we're providing a better experience and the opportunities are greater than ever for consumers and merchants. Having everyone aligned is what we were after, and that's what we think we've done here.

We feel very good that we're in a position, as I said, where this is a framework where we can work happily together, hopefully for a very long period of time, because it's going to drive more growth. That's what it's all about.

It does not change our Visa Checkout strategy. Here, too, I've been very consistent in saying that one of the things that we don't know is we don't know ultimately what experiences are going to win at the point of sale, either online or at the physical point of sale. Given the fact that we are the global acceptance mark that's recognized more than any in the world, that's something where we should have a solution that leverages that acceptance, and allows consumers to pay quickly and easily and securely in a manner that they're accustomed. That's what Visa Checkout's designed to be.

But there are other payment solutions out there. We've talked about a bunch of them on this call, as is PayPal. What we want to do is ensure that if we're working together under principles that we're happy with, which is what we've achieved here, and what we have in the other ones that we support, then we want to enable multiple experiences. Ultimately, consumers and merchants will choose which will win in the market place.

We're happy with the progress that we're making in Visa Checkout. We're glad we're doing it. Ultimately, what we're going to look at for success is how Visa usage is doing in the physical point of world online and in mobile -- secondarily where it's coming from. Ultimately, that will help us make resource allocation decisions. But we want to be the enabler. We want the volume. We're doing lots of different things, and Visa Checkout is one of those things, but it's not the only thing.

JACK CARSKY: Thank you, Tien-tsin, and thank you all for joining us today. If anybody has any follow-up questions, feel free to give Investor Relations a call.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thanks everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you, and that concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | china : China | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160722ec7l007vd
  


 HD
 Q2  2016  Visa  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,402 words
   PD
21 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa's second-quarter FY16 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Thank you, Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thanks, Sam. Welcome to Visa Inc's fiscal second quarter earnings conference call. With us today are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer, and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast over the internet, and is accessible on the investor relations of our website at www.investor. Visa.com. The replay of the webcast will be archived on our site for 90 days. A PowerPoint deck containing the financial and statistical highlights of today's call have been posted to our IR website.

Let me also remind that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could materially differ, as the result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q, which you can find on the SEC's website, and the investor relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC, are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Vasant.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA INC.: Actually, Jack, it's Charlie, I'm going to start.

JACK CARSKY: I'm sorry.

CHARLIE SCHARF: On the call, appreciate it, though. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us.

There are a series of things that I'm going to cover, before I do hand it over to Vasant. I'm going to talk a little bit about our second-quarter results at a high level. We'll make some comments about the press release we put out about Visa Europe, some general business updates, and then some further comments on how we see the year playing out from here.

So first, let me start with our overall results. We reported earnings per share of $0.71, but this includes a one-time gain on currency, forward contracts used to mitigate some of the foreign exchange risk associated with the cash portion of the VE purchase. Vasant will cover that in a little bit more detail in his remarks. If you exclude that gain, adjusted earnings per share of $0.68 grew 7% on a nominal basis, and 12% on a constant dollar basis.

If you remember, we raised $16 billion in long-term debt in December of last year in anticipation of the VE acquisition, and we absorbed $125 million in interest expense during this quarter, a $0.03 drag on our EPS growth for the quarter. This negatively impacted our EPS growth rate in the quarter by 5 points. After we close the VE transaction, we will obviously have VE operating income to offset this expense.

As we talk about the quarter, you're going to hear some themes which will sound very much the same as those we discussed on our last earnings call. Reasonable underlying domestic growth, offset by some headwinds. Our results, adjusting for the leap year, were very consistent with the prior quarter, and our growth continues to be subdued by the strength of the dollar on both translation and cross-border business volumes, continued low oil prices, and weakness in China, oil-based economies, and Brazil. But importantly, the US consumer remains strong.

Operating revenue grew 6% nominally or 9% on a constant currency basis, reflecting a negative 3 percentage point impact from FX. Adjusting for the leap year, growth was basically the same as the prior quarter. Overall payments volume, cross-border volume growth and processed transaction growth were consistent with last quarter, excluding the 1 percentage point growth benefit from the leap year. Cross-border continues at extremely low levels.

Reported US payments volume growth was 11%. International payments volume growth was 14%. Cross-border volume growth was 5%. Processed transactions grew 9%.

And more recently in April, through the 14th, so recognize this is a short period of time, we're seeing similar trends with US payments volume growth at 10%, cross-border volume growth of 5%, and processed transactions growth of 8%. The bottom line is we continue to see reasonable growth rates, but well below what we can produce in more favorable macroeconomic environment.

We issued a press release today regarding the Visa Europe transaction. As we discussed the transaction with the European Commission, we received feedback from them regarding the earn-out. Based on that feedback, we and Visa Europe have reached a preliminary agreement to eliminate the entire earn-out. Instead of an earn-out, we will pay an additional EUR750 million at closing, and EUR1 billion plus 4% interest, payable on the third anniversary of the closing, for a total consideration of EUR1.750 billion plus interest.

The transaction remains subject to negotiation of definitive document, and approval of the European Commission. It's possible that we could close the transaction towards the end of the quarter, but it could slip past the end of our third fiscal quarter. We think this is a good outcome for both parties. We've had many months now to work with the VE team up close, and feel terrific about our future together, and we obviously know more now than we knew when we have first agreed to the deal.

Transition planning is well underway, and we have great confidence in our ability to execute this well. Given the delay in closing, we won't be providing more detailed information on this call, but the basic thesis still stands: Low single digit accretion in the first full year, growing to high single digits by 2020. These numbers exclude transition costs. Next quarter, we will provide more detail on what to expect after we close.

A couple words on China, there's no real update regarding the timing regarding of our ability to apply for a domestic license, but we have been making preparations to both make our application, as well as be in a position to compete domestically. China continues to be a very important market for us. We're committed to having a broader business in China that we will build over long term, and we continue to invest locally in the country.

We announced several important partnerships this past quarter, which are great representations of our commitment to create local Chinese partnerships. First, we signed an MOU with China Union Pay, where we both agreed to collaborate on payment security, innovation, and financial inclusion. We're excited to work in partnership with CUP to lead the industry forward. The agreement provides an important platform for the two of us to work together, to strengthen and create new value for the bank card ecosystem, benefiting consumers, merchants, financial institutions and technology partners.

We've also been active committing Visa resources to support the Chinese government's efforts to reduce poverty and promote inclusive finance. We announced a partnership with the China Foundation For Development of Financial Education, and the China Foundation For Poverty Alleviation, to help support progress against these goals.

And at the end of March, we signed a cooperation plan with the China National Tourism Administration, establishing Visa as a strategic partner of the US China tourism year. This collaboration between CNTA, the US Department of Commerce and Visa will result in a year-long series of events designed to enhance tourism, trade cooperation and cultural understanding between China and the United States.

On to some updates on client activity, in the United States, Navy Federal Credit Union, the world's largest credit union, and one of our most important clients in the US, renewed a multi-year credit and debit agreement with Visa. We're very proud of this association with this great institution. Beginning June 20, Visa cards will be exclusively accepted at Costco US and Puerto Rico warehouse location and fuel stations. And we continue to expand our relationships with clients across the globe, Banco de Brazil, the oldest and largest bank in South America, renewed a multi-year credit agreement, and in India SBI Card, the State Bank of India's credit card venture, renewed a multi-year credit card agreement as well.

We continue to be encouraged by the growth we see with Visa Checkout. We have nearly 12 million registered users in 16 countries, with over 675 financial institution partners participating globally. Later this year, Visa Checkout will be available to merchants and consumers in six additional markets, including France, India, Ireland, Poland, Spain, and the United Kingdom. More than 250,000 merchants, including some of the largest global retailers, have signed on to accept Visa Checkout, representing $113 billion in addressable volume. Visa Checkout customers are also more active online shoppers in general, completing 30% more transactions per person than the overall population of online shoppers.

In February, we launched the Visa developer platform, an open platform that provides access to hundreds of Visa APIs and software development kits, for some of Visa's most popular payment products and capabilities. It's still very early days, but we've had strong interest early on in the Visa developer platform, with thousands of new users building and testing new applications in our sandbox. We have a small number of clients in or near production launch on the platform, and we expect to see more soon.

Let me just give you a simple example of how the platform changes the way we work with our clients. Earlier this year one of our largest clients outside the US sent a small team to our office in San Francisco with an idea. They wanted to give their card holders complete control over when and where their cards worked, via their mobile app. The ability to turn their Visa card on or off for certain types of merchants or transactions. Working with our team and our new APIs, they designed, built, and launched a working prototype in three days, and were ready to be in market in a few weeks. Before Visa developer platform, this would have taken months.

Move on, talk about EMV for a second. Six months out from the official kickoff to chip in the US, we continue on the journey of moving from mag stripe to chip. More than 265 million Visa chip cards were issued as of March of 2016, making the US the largest chip card market in the world, and larger than the UK and Brazil combined. 47% of credit cards and 30% of debit cards have a chip on them today, more than 1 million merchants now have chip-enabled terminals, roughly 20% of all merchants. Based on client surveys, we expect 50% of merchant locations will be enabled with EMV by the end of calendar year 2016.

One of the main pain points in moving to chip is the additional time it takes to complete a transaction, due to the time the card spends in the terminal. Earlier this week, Visa announced the launch of Quick Chip for EMV. The upgrade streamlines the processing of a chip card transaction to enable customers to dip and remove their EMV chip card from the terminal, without waiting for the transaction to be finalized, allowing the consumer to put away their card in typically two seconds or less.

The enhancement requires only a simple software update to the merchant's card terminal, or point-of-sale system. Quick Chip is available free of charge to payment processors, acquiring banks, and other networks to offer to merchants. Several merchant processors and vendors plan to offer Quick Chip to their merchant clients in the coming months, including TSYS, Ingenico, Verifone, Equinox and B2.

Before I turn the call back to Vasant, I want to say a few words about the back half of the year, and our guidance. Vasant will walk through the specifics of the changes in our guidance, but a few quick comments. We've not seen improvement in the global economic environment. Relative strength of currency pairs is still unfavorable for us, and the price of oil has remained at low levels.

As we discussed last quarter on our earnings call, our guidance assumed that these things would improve. Since we're now in the third quarter, we're far less comfortable that volumes will meaningfully change, so we're officially reducing some pieces of our guidance, especially the third quarter. We could be wrong. We don't know what the global economy will look like beyond tomorrow. It could improve, and when things improve, we will be the beneficiaries, but as of today, with a few exceptions, our business volume growth is not accelerating or decelerating, but we're obviously still seeing meaningful growth.

We do know that there will be a turn at some point for the better. We just don't know when. So our mindset continues to be cautious in the short term due to the headwinds discussed earlier, but the long term fundamentals of our business model remain strong, and our focus is on accelerating global electronic payments.

Globally, an estimated 43% of all consumer payments today are still made with cash, which leaves us an enormous opportunity, in addition to the growth that we see due to regular economic growth through PCE. Last week, Visa published a white paper, located on our website, discussing the opportunities to accelerate the growth of global acceptance, and I encourage you to take a look at that paper. It's why we feel good about the work we've done. There's still great opportunity in front of us. With that, I will turn it over to Vasant.

VASANT PRABHU, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Charlie. Much like our first fiscal quarter the global macroeconomic environment remained uncertain, but our business performed well. A few points to highlight. First, net revenues grew 9% in constant dollars, with an expected 3 point drag from the strong dollar. Nominal revenue grew 6%. The 1 point step up in the growth rate relative to the first quarter was mostly due to the leap year effect.

Cross-border business was once again very weak, but in line with the first quarter's growth rate. The deceleration of outbound commerce from China continues. Cross-border commerce out of commodity-based economies remained anemic. This has added to the negative effects of the strong dollar, especially on our large inbound US business. However, currency volatilities were higher than the first quarter, offsetting some cross-border weakness.

Through the first six months, we managed our expense growth to 4% in nominal terms, well below the high single digit rate we had planned in the first half. We have continued to hold the line on expenses, while funding all our key growth initiatives, such as Visa Checkout, Visa Token Service, Visa Developer Platform and others. During the quarter, we entered into currency forward contracts to mitigate the exchange rate risk associated with the up front cash payments for Visa Europe. as these contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, they are marked-to-market with gains or losses recorded in non-operating income.

We recorded $116 million gain, which we have excluded from our reported EPS, as a non-GAAP adjustment. These contracts are expiring in late April. When it became apparent that the Visa Europe transaction would not close before then, we entered into fully offsetting contracts at the end of March, locking in this gain. Coincidentally, this gain is almost equal to our interest expense in the quarter.

Lastly, we repurchased 24.2 million shares during the quarter, at an average price of $72.23 per share, for a total of $1.8 billion. Year-to-date, we have bought back 49.9 million shares at an average price of $75.47, for $3.8 billion. At the end of the quarter, we had remaining stock buyback authorization of $4 billion.

Now, a quick review of the quarter's business drivers. Note that all growth rates are about a point higher, due to the leap year effect. Global Payments volume in constant dollars grew 12%, despite considerable uncertainty and turbulence in the global economy, Payments volume growth globally has been remarkably stable.

US payments volume grew 11%, with both credit and debit growing at the same rate. Accounting for conversions and the leap day, US payments volume growth was slightly lower than the first quarter. International payments volume grew 14% in constant dollars, consistent with the last quarter. Once again, the impact of the strong dollar reduced nominal growth in international payments volume to a paltry 4%.

Cross-border volumes grew 5% in constant dollars, and were flat in nominal dollars. When you factor in the leap year, the trend was unchanged from the first quarter. Cross-border growth rates in constant dollars have decelerated from 9% in FY14 to 17% last year, down to 4% so far this year. As we mentioned on our call last quarter, the first leg down was driven by the strong dollar, and then starting in September last year, growth decelerated sharply due to China and the commodity price collapse.

Cross-border commerce outbound from China has dropped from growth rates above 40% a year ago to single-digit levels in the second quarter. Commodity-based economies across Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa have also experienced sharp declines. This has hit a large US cross-border acquiring business hard.

Commerce into Europe has been strong, though we do not benefit fully from it yet. More recently, we have seen commerce outbound from Europe into the US pick up. Processed transactions totaled $18.5 billion in the quarter, up 9%. Both US and international growth, at 12% and 1% respectively, was stable. Processed transaction growth rates will step up in the back half of the year, as they begin to lap last year's transfer of domestic processing in Russia to NSBK.

Service revenues grew 8%, in excess of nominal payments volume growth of 5%. The pricing we took last year contributed 3 points to the growth rate. Next quarter, we will lap the price increases, and this 3 point tailwind will no longer help us.

Payment processing revenues grew 10%, in line with processed transactions. International revenues grew 8%. Constant dollar cross-border volume growth of 5% was almost entirely offset by the currency translation drag. The year-over-year increase was largely driven by the pricing actions from last year. Currency volatilities were high in the quarter, but only contributed modestly to growth as we are now beginning to lap high volatilities from last year.

Next quarter, our reported international revenue growth rates will no longer benefit from the price increases, and as I mentioned, currency volatilities were unusually high in the second half of 2015. As such, going forward, reported international revenue growth will depend on the interplay between volume growth and the currency translation drag. Other revenues were down 3%, primarily as a result of lower license fees generated outside the US, due to slowing payments volumes.

Incentives were generally in line with our expectations, at the midpoint of our guidance range. Higher US incentives, due to acceleration of deals into the quarter, were offset by lower incentives outside the US, due to lower volumes. With expense growth in the mid-single digits, a tax rate of 30.1%, EPS of $0.68 after adjusting for the gain from our currency forward contracts grew by 12% in constant dollars, and by a healthy 17% when you account for the interest on the debt we issued to finance the Visa Europe acquisition.

With that let me turn to our outlook for the fiscal third quarter and the balance of the year, which excludes the impact from Visa Europe. We now expect net revenue growth in FY16 to come in at 7% to 8% in constant dollars, a couple of points below our expectations from last October. This was driven by three factors:

First no improvement in cross-border volume growth from current levels. Second, somewhat weaker domestic payment volumes, due to gas prices, as well as weakness in large commodity-based economies like Brazil. Third, client incentives likely to come in at the high end of our 17.5% to 18.5% range.

In October last year, as we told you on our call, we had hoped that cross-border trends would improve, as we lapped the weakening of the dollar in the second half of FY15. However, cross-border growth dropped from the 8% range to the 4% range in the past six to nine months, as outbound commerce from China and commodity economies slowed sharply. This trend continues. As such, we're assuming little improvement in the cross-border growth rate in the second half. Recent weakness in the dollar should help over time, but it is too early to tell.

We are now lapped the sharp gas declines from last year. Last October, we had hoped that this would provide a tailwind for US domestic volumes in the second half of FY16. This has not happened, as gas prices remain below the lows of last year.

Given the recent failure of OPEC to agree on production caps, low gas prices could persist. As such, we are resuming that US payment volume growth will not improve from current trends in the second half. In addition, payments volumes remains soft in large commodity economies, like Brazil and the Middle East.

Client incentives are projected to come in at the high end of our guidance range. In the first half, client incentives were around 18% of gross revenue. In the second half, they are likely to run at around 19%. Significant renewals and conversions are driving this trend, particularly in the US. Costco and USAA add more than 50 basis points to incentives, as a percent of gross revenue in the second half.

A few other factors to highlight. These are not new but will impact reported revenue growth numbers in the second half. As I mentioned earlier, we will no longer benefit from the uplift in our growth rate we got from the price increases last year. We will lap the currency volatility peaks of the second half of 2015.

There have been some delays in the rollout of USAA and Costco conversions. Given the quarter lag in reporting service revenues, these Costco and USAA conversions are a drag on net revenues in the second half of 2016. In other words, incentives expensed exceeded revenue recognized. This will, of course, not be the case in FY17.

On the positive front, if the recent weakness in the dollar continues, the currency translation drag of 3 points could moderate. Given softer than expected revenues, we will continue to hold the line on expenses, funding key strategic and growth programs while maintaining or reducing costs in other areas. As we had indicated previously, expense growth will be lower in the second half, relative to the first half rate. We expect a modestly lower tax rate of about 30% versus the low 30s, which should also help mitigate impact on net income.

As we look at the fiscal third quarter, net revenue growth in nominal terms could come in as low as 2% to 3%. In addition to the factors I just mentioned, we will lap an unusually low quarter for incentives in Q3 last year. Incentives were 16% of gross growth revenues due to deal delays, versus an anticipated 19% this year.

As we have told you before, incentive shifts from quarter to quarter can impact year-over-year comparisons. Nominal net revenue growth should revert back to the first-half growth rate in Q4. With a lower revenue growth range, and including interest expense from the $16 billion in debt we issued last December, we now expect constant currency EPS growth in the low double digits.

Interest expense will cost us over $0.09 this year or almost 4 points of EPS growth. If you account for the interest expense, it puts constant currency EPS growth at the low end of the mid-teens range. The currency translation drag is approximately 4 points.

in term of the impact of Visa Europe, for modeling purposes, we think it is best to assume the transaction does not close in our fiscal third quarter. As such, we will have interest expense in the third quarter, but no operating income from Visa Europe to offset it. Should we close on the acquisition sooner, we will, of course, break out the impact.

If Visa Europe is in our numbers for the full fourth quarter, in rough terms, it will offset interest costs in the quarter. There will, of course, be a variety of non-recurring transaction-related costs, which we will also break out. We hope to give you a more precise perspective when we have talk again in July.

As we look ahead to 2017, we remain optimistic that revenue growth rates will step up from current levels. We will begin to see the impact of Costco and USAA conversions kick in, and hopefully we will see some recovery in the cross-border business and gas prices, helped by a weakening dollar. Nominal dollar growth could also tick up as the dollar drag abates. Visa Europe will provide additional ballast, driving EPS growth back to levels you expect us to deliver. With that, I'll turn this back to Jack.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Vasant. I got to write that down. Sam, at this point, we are ready to start taking questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

And our first question is from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse. Your line is now open.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great. It sounds, Vasant, like you're saying the revenue weakness comes from the rebound that you were hoping for, not really happening. I'm wondering, can you talk a little bit, you mentioned the tax rate, but it seems like, even including the interest expense that the impact on net income is actually fairly nominal. Are there other things going on, and can you talk a little bit about what you're doing to preserve or protect net income?

VASANT PRABHU: As we've been doing most of this year, we are holding the line on expenses. I think when we talked to you last October, we had indicated that the expense growth would run, I think in the high single digits in the first half, and then moderate in the second half. It has, as you can see, run below that in the first half, and we said that the rate will be even lower in the second half. So clearly we are trying to mitigate some of the revenue softness with expense management.

And then the tax rate is modestly lower than we might have expected last year. So those two things are mitigating the impact on EPS, but not completely. But other than that, really those are the main pluses and minuses. Charlie, anything you would add?

CHARLIE SCHARF: No.

JACK CARSKY: Next question?

OPERATOR: Yes. Our next question is from Jason Kupferberg with Jefferies. Your line is now open.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Two quick ones related to Europe. First, any other regulatory impediments that you anticipate, now that you took care of the earn-out? And how much would you expect Visa Europe to drive acceleration in the cross-border volume, given all the intraEuropean travel? I think you had given some pro forma data on that a couple years ago. I don't know if the relative figures would have changed, but any thoughts there?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I'll take the first one. So we have to obviously go back and get approval for this transaction, but as I had said in my remarks, we had gotten feedback. It's specifically related to the earn-out, and so what we've crafted eliminates the earn-out in its entirety. So as with all regulatory approvals, we need to go through the process, but we would not have struck a deal that we didn't think could be approved.

VASANT PRABHU: On the cross-border question, if you go back three or four quarters and look at cross-border inbound outbound, one of the strongest markets for inbound travel and inbound commerce has been Europe. So had we had Europe in our earlier numbers, early cross-border numbers would have looked better. What it's going to look like next year, of course, that's a different issue and we'll talk about it in the next few quarters as we discuss Europe. But yes cross-border inbound into Europe has been a strong business.

JACK CARSKY: Next question?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is with Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW. Your line is now open.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: Thank you. I just want to make sure, there's no other contingencies outside of the EC approval, is there, to close this deal? And secondly, understanding it's a competitive market today, was there any concern that the removal of the earn-out loosens the ties that the banks might have in the future to Visa Inc? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Listen, on the second one, I think as I said in my remarks, we've had a fair amount of time to work with the Visa Europe team to understand their relationships with their clients, and I would just say that we would not have agreed to a deal that we didn't think was an appropriate price to pay, relative to the value that we were getting. Our view is when you actually look at what the earn-out was versus where we are today, we're confident in the value that we'll be getting, and we will get the appropriate returns. And on the first question of --

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Regulatory.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Regulatory approval, we will -- there were three that we initially needed to approve, Turkey, Jersey, and the European Commission, and we will revisit the first two to ensure, and we will go through the process with the European Commission.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. your next question is from James Schneider with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

JAMES SCHNEIDER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: As you think about the Visa European integration process, can you give us an update on the process you're going to go through, in terms of identifying synergies? and can you maybe talk about any synergies that you might look for in Visa Inc, in addition to those in Visa Europe?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes. Let me start and then Vasant can chime in. The work that we've had underway, and keep in mind, just to be perfectly clear, as we have done our work since the announcement of the initial transaction, all the work that we've been doing is pure planning. They continue to run their business.

We continue to run our business, but we've been working very closely together, to understand what the best way to organize and run the Company is on a going forward basis. So we've gotten to the point where we have pretty clear plans, area by area, across the Company, of what the expense base of an integrated Company would look like, what time frames would look like to get there.

We have some more process to go through, and we've got some specific processes we've got to go through within Europe, to ensure that we do this properly, but when we first announced the transaction, we had done the work with some information, but not the kind of information that we have had access to since the transaction was announced. So as I said, we feel very comfortable that we have a better understanding of what those expense synergies will look like, and over what time we will get them, in addition to have a deep understanding of what it will take operationally, and feel very good about our ability to get it done.

VASANT PRABHU: I think everything we told you then as to what we can do, we feel very good about, have much clearer line of sight on precisely how we would do it, and overall time frame. And to answer the other question you asked, would we look at costs comprehensively, and say, what is the opportunity when you combine the two, both within Visa Inc and Visa Europe? Yes, we would absolutely do it that way across the functions.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, and just to be very specific, there are some things where we look at what's being done in Europe. We ask the question, are they doing it better and more efficiently than we're doing it elsewhere in the Visa Inc franchise? And if that's the case, which it is in some cases, that can survive, and we'll get the synergies within VI.

VASANT PRABHU: That's right.

JACK CARSKY: Thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Bryan Keane with Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just wanted to make sure. Last quarter you warned that if there wasn't a pickup on the economy front, we're likely to see potentially a change in guidance. So not a real surprise here, but what I want to make sure is, is this all cyclical, or is there any share loss that you're seeing that's causing the change in guidance? And then secondly, we picked up some news that you could be increasing your US acquirer fee on signature debit on July 1, 2016. Just want to see if that has any impact on the model, and if that's correct? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me do the first one first. To answer the question, everything that we're seeing and everything that we've talked about, we absolutely believe is cyclical, doesn't relate to share in any way, shape or form, and we feel very good about the maintenance of the share that we have across the world. And you're right.

I'm glad you pointed it out, because we tried to be as transparent as we could on last quarter's earnings call, where we said listen, it's the first quarter. It's very early. We don't know what volumes will be two, three quarters out from now, but our assumptions are that in order to make those guidance numbers, there needs to be an improvement, and things haven't deteriorated, but things haven't improved. So that's playing out exactly, not the way we would want, but given what's happened, the way we'd expect. And so obviously, if things got better, then that would change as well, but we just don't see that, and so it's not something at this point, given that we're already in the third quarter, we think is prudent to think about

VASANT PRABHU: In terms of the US acquired debit price increase of 2 basis points, yes, we have informed people about it. They will begin to see the increase in July, but as you know, we record these things on a quarter lag. So there's no benefit from the price increase in this year's revenues. Also, just so that you're clear on it, this is not in order of magnitude terms anywhere close to the price increase we took last fiscal year. So the impacts are more modest. It's clearly helpful, and of course, we provide some level of remediation in the early months. So you should make sure that some of that is factored in, as you think about all this.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Bryan. Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Darrin Peller with Barclays. Your line is now open.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: So I just want to clarify. It sound like despite the run rate for the first half of about 8.5% constant currency, lower growth in the third quarter is the timing of incentives, and sounds like a little bit of a delay in timing on Costco and USAA. Just any reason for the slower implementation of those, and is the timings for those deals now around the fiscal fourth quarter, or early next year?

And then just a quick followup on the incentive size. I guess when we go forward, have those been in line with the timing of incentives in the third quarter, would your incentive run rate still be in the mid-point of the range? Is that really what we should expect going forward? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Well, on the first one, it's hard to pinpoint it, and the implementation of the Costco arrangement is, in a lot of respects, out of our hands. Remember they had an agreement that they had to unwind. there's a lot of work that Citi the issuer and Costco are working, as well as us.

And so given the complexity of unwinding an old agreement and moving forward on a new agreement, is just complex. And in USAA's business there's nothing specific, other than I think it's them just wanting to do it in a time frame which brings about the least amount of potential issues for their members, which we respect.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes. On the level of incentives, we are in the range we told you, coming into the year. We are in the high end of the range. And the reason for that is, we've had a significant number of renewals around the world and in the US, and of course, we've had a couple of big conversions.

That's all in our view good news in that we are renewing important contracts, and we have some significant new business. As I mentioned in the comments, the benefits from the conversions for sure are not showing up this year, and will show up next year, but, some of these, as we've told you before, there are timing moves from one quarter to another, and there's no question that the incentives are running at the higher end of the range, because these renewals have mostly all now fallen into place.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Darrin. Next question, please?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I'm sorry. I want to say I think to that point, that the reality is, these are important renewals. These are very big clients, and the new wins we've talked extensively about. So we can -- when we talk about it, in terms of how it impacts the numbers, if you sit back a second and to the question earlier about share, we feel really, really good about what our client franchise looks like, for sure, across the globe.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Next question is from Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust. Your line is now open.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Charlie, I wonder if you could maybe opine a little bit on mobile payments adoption, mobile wallet adoption in particular. It seems like some of the big banks indicated recently that it remains quite low, and maybe a little disappointing. Are there any implications longer term for Visa's volume around mobile one way or the other, and how do you think about initiatives that Visa might undertake to accelerate mobile adoption, which might benefit the secular shift?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. I think, it's interesting. I think we are doing as much as we can as an entity, to insert ourselves in a way which benefits all of our clients and their clients, into helping digitize payments in all forms of commerce. And that's how we think about it. We don't necessarily think about that we want to drive business from cards to e-com to M-com or anything like that.

Anyone who tries to drive something towards what they think is good for them, generally hasn't been particularly successful. What we want to insure is that we continue to have the best solutions to pay in the physical world, that we've got the best solutions to pay in the e-com world, and the best solutions to pay in the M commerce world. So if you look at the things we've done all across that spectrum, whether it's the things that you see, or I mean such as Visa Checkout, some of the things that we've done with third-party players, whether it's Google, Samsung or Apple, or whether it's things that you don't necessarily see like tokenization, these are all aimed at ensuring that we are a preferred payment option in all of those different mediums.

And quite frankly, the consumers and the merchants are going to be the one to drive the adoption of these different forms of payment, and so we're there to support them. We're there to be their partner. We're there to provide options. So the work we did on tokenization enabled a lot of the things that you're seeing out there, but we don't prefer one versus the other. We just have to ensure we're doing everything we can to be inserted into all forms of commerce, in a way which is friendly for our issuers and acquirers.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Andrew. Next question, Sam?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Matthew Howlett with UBS. Your line is now open.

MATTHEW HOWLETT, ANALYST, UBS: Just to follow-up on the cross-border, what is a normalized run rate? Maybe, to first start off, what you're seeing in terms of what quarter is it. Looks like the Asian region is coming up a little slower. What do we expect is a normalized run rate, and what should we expect long term?

VASANT PRABHU: Well, I mean if you go back in time, as you know, double-digit run rates are very common, and then starting about eight quarters ago, you started to see some slowdown, mostly with the strong dollar, and that brought the run rate down to the single digits, and ran at about 8%, 9% in constant dollar terms for a while. And then in October or so last year, we saw that sharp decline to 4%, and it stayed there. The biggest drivers are significant declines coming out of China, and that has not changed. In other words, the second derivative on that is still negative. It is continuing to decelerate, though still positive.

Canada, a major source of business for us in the US, has been declining for several years now, gone from a growth rate to meaningful negative levels. Then we saw a significant change in trend in the past few months, coming out of all the commodity economies, whether those are the African economies or the Middle East, big declines in those areas. And then layer on top of that our specific large economies like Brazil, which for a while was a major source of outbound business to the US and elsewhere, and other economies like Russia, which you saw really slow, go down significantly last year.

So you've got three things going on at the same time which may not happen often. One is a strong dollar, which hurts the largest part of our cross-border business, which is the acquired business into the US. Second is a significant growth engine called China slowing down. And third is, large chunks of the global economy having trouble like Brazil, like Russia for a variety of different reasons. So you've got all three things happening at the same time right now.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Just in terms of how it plays out mathematically is, remember to the extent that the dollar strengthens, we start to see less spending as goods are no longer as attractive to buy on a cross-border basis. So you're going from growth to shrinkage. So on a percentage change basis, it's significant. So the first effect will be at some point these things get lapped, assuming that it doesn't continue to get worse, and that normal business grows at a reasonable level, and then if there is any kind of weakening of the dollar, then you start to see the spending patterns shift back to what they were, and that changes the growth dynamic significantly.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Sam.

OPERATOR: Yes. Our next question is from Jamie Friedman with Susquehanna Financial. Your line is now open.

JAMIE FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP / SIG: Charlie, do you have any updates on your conversations, negotiations, with the aggregators that you had shared some perspective on last quarter?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I don't. I don't. I think what I said is what I and we continue to feel, and if there's anything more to talk about, we'll let you know.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Sam.

OPERATOR: Yes. our next question is from Lisa Ellis with Bernstein. Your line is now open.

LISA ELLIS, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hi, Charlie. Can you give an update, a little more color on Visa Checkout? How many of your large issuers do you have now auto enrolling in Visa Checkout, and are you seeing a notable uptick in adoption, as a result of that? And then similarly, on the acquirer side, do you have any acquirer partners that are sort of actively now helping you promote Visa Checkout with the merchants? Like at some point here, should we be seeing more of a steep acceleration in adoption?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes. Listen, I think to the last question first, I think it's, when we think about what the adoption curves look like, we're not looking for anything that looks exponential necessarily at this point. In fact, what we want to see is, we want to insure that there is continued growth on both sides of the equation. So not just the increase in the user base, but the increase in the merchant locations as well. And any time, if those growth rates get way out of line, then we live somewhat in fear of one side of the network getting ahead of the other.

So we have Bank of America, who is very actively promoting Visa Checkout. That has just begun, so it's hard to draw any conclusions to what it means, but we love what they're doing. It is very simple, it's very creative, and we're excited about it.

Beyond that, we're very focused on growing the merchant side, and the reality of the merchant side, Lisa is, it really is merchant by merchant. And so we can certainly -- we've done everything that we can to make it a simple integration for merchants, but the conversation really is not even necessarily -- it's not the typical conversation that either we or an acquirer have with the merchant, where we're talking about acceptance, we're talking about an Assistant Treasurer. The conversations of Visa Checkout are much more about the marketing areas. And so that is where we are focused on, is getting the conversation to a different level with merchants, and we're focused on the top merchants, not necessarily the number of merchants, or the size of merchants.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Lisa. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Yes. Our next question is from Tien-tsin Huang with JPMorgan. Your line is now open.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: A couple questions. The Costco card has pretty attractive rewards. I'm curious, has that changed the incentive equation for Visa in any way, meaning your role in funding these rewards? and I want to ask a Visa Europe question just as part of the new deal giving up the earn-outs. do you get to then extend contracts with the major issuers from Visa Europe? Just curious what the give and take is, beyond what you discussed. Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. The first question was?

VASANT PRABHU: Are we doing anything different with Costco because of the rewards available?

CHARLIE SCHARF: No, no. I mean our deal with Costco is our deal with Costco, and their deal with Citi is their deal with Citi, and so we love the product that's out there, and even more broadly, we love Visa acceptance at Costco for all of our issuers.

And on the second item, the answer is no. There's nothing special that goes along with contract renewals or anything like that, relative to the additional amount that we're paying. But I guess the way I would think about this is, we certainly, when we entered into the earn-out, wind up with a point of view of what we think we could pay, based upon the results could pan out.

And as I've said earlier, we've had the opportunity to be able to have a deeper level of understanding of what that could actually be, as well as to have an understanding of what the relationships between Visa Europe and its client base are. I don't know how to say it other than I think we feel very good about the deal that we've struck, just as I'm sure their members feel very good on a risk-adjusted basis. They're getting more guaranteed of cash and so these two things meet at a place where you get a transaction done.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes. Everything we've seen and heard indicates that the current members and the current big issuers and customers of Visa Europe actually see Visa Europe as being part of Visa Inc, and one Visa as a big plus.

Makes Visa Europe much more attractive from their standpoint, with all the capabilities that we are bringing. And in any case, we have always assumed that we were going to work with every one of these issuers to move the relationship from a member relationship to a commercial relationship, and those conversations will clearly be the important things we do with them, as soon as they're able to.

CHARLIE SCHARF: I guess I would just pile on a bit and say, if there's a belief that banks have continued to do business with Visa Europe solely because of its ownership structure, that's a very risky thought process to go down. As we all know, the payments business is extraordinarily important for financial institutions, and as we pointed out on these calls many times, these are financial decisions about the network that they're choosing, but they're also far greater strategic alliances that they're thinking through.

And what we bring is just a tremendous amount more to the banks in terms of capabilities. So the relationships that Visa Europe has are very, very strong, and what we have is additive to that. So we feel very, very good about our ability to compete in an open marketplace with others for the banks' business.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Tien-tsin. Next question, Sam?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Bob Napoli with William Blair. Your line is now open.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Vasant, you had mentioned I think just on the Costco incentives, and the high end of the range for client incentives for the back half of this year, as we think about 2017, I think you said that we would expect Visa to deliver earnings like investors are accustomed to, and I was wondering for some color on that. And then is the Costco and USAA, are there portions of the fees that are one-time very large fees, such that we shouldn't expect the high end of the range longer, that type of a range longer term, or would that be -- should we think of the higher incentive range longer term?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes. In terms -- there were several questions there. Hopefully I remember them all. In terms of the Costco business, all I was saying was that it wouldn't have an impact on 2017. I'm forgetting all the questions. There were several questions there. Jack, can you help me?

JACK CARSKY: The first piece was the return to earnings you would expect.

VASANT PRABHU: Oh, right. You made some reference to earnings. I just want to make sure we were just making sure people understood that this year we had two big things going on that hopefully we won't have to deal with next year. One is we have this interest expense, which clearly did not have offsetting operating income in the time frame that we expected, and that was a meaningful drag on our earnings this year, and clearly once the Visa Europe deal closes, we will have the offset level. That was the intent of the debt issuance. That was clearly almost a 4 point drag on growth, and we just want to make sure people are a conveyor of that.

Second, we have seen, the headwinds that we talked about coming into the year. We are hopeful that they will moderate as we go into next year. And then third, the conversions that we believe will add some additional ballast, so to speak, to revenues, really aren't helping, in fact, are a drag this year because of this lag issue.

So all I was doing was pointing to those things. We'll talk about next year at the appropriate time and give you our best sense of next year. I think we were just highlighting some of the elements of this year that were fairly unique.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Bob. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Chris Donat with Sandler O'Neill. The line is now open.

CHRIS DONAT, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: I'm curious, with the software solution you have announced for the EMV chips in the United States. Do you an opportunity to roll out the same software solution across the other markets that already have EMV, and would you do this for free, or would you charge for it? Is there some potential revenue upside associated with it?

CHARLIE SCHARF: No. First of all, on the second one, this isn't about revenue at all. This is about just improving the customer experience. And remember, around the rest of the world, I'd say two things. EMV is working. It's well accepted, and so we're addressing a very specific concern here as we go through this transition.

And then the second thing is, in some of the major markets across the world, there's a very high degree of contactless. That's the card with the chip in it that can be used on a contactless basis, which are very, very fast transactions. And so we continue to promote that as well, and we don't have the issue outside the US that we have in the US, as we go through this transition.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Sam?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Don Fandetti with Citigroup. Your line is open.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Charlie, so you've won two sizeable deals with USAA and Costco. Just curious if there were any other large portfolios or conversions out there that you were looking at? And secondarily, it sounds like you're upbeat on the US consumer, but the volumes did slow a little bit. Wanted to get your sense there

CHARLIE SCHARF: So let me -- on the first one, and I talked about this a little bit. When it comes to our position, especially in the US, where certainly a lot of these big co-brands are, we love the position that we have. We aren't looking to gain share by being very, very active at targeting, or anything like that.

Costco is very unique. That was Costco looking to initially think about whether or not they wanted to change their issuer and their network, and I've spoken about USAA, about how that actually came about. So what we're most focused on in the US is continuing to do a great job and retain the great business that we have on the issuing co-brand side.

VASANT PRABHU: The second part of your question around the US consumer, I think it's important to point out that I think perhaps to everybody's surprise gas prices today are actually lower than the lows reached last year, and in the second quarter, the gas drag was almost as bad as it was last year. It was at least a point on growth in the second quarter, and if it stays at these levels, gas is still a drag on US payment volumes, almost, not as bad as last year, but quite high.

So that's another thing that I guess most people might have expected coming in, that you would get to see some kind of a tailwind. It isn't there. It's anybody's guess, though, where gas prices go.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes. But I think when you look at relatively stable growth in the US consumer spend, plus you talk to the banks about increased savings rates, you just draw the conclusion that the US consumer is in very, very good shape. We can debate about the reasons why spend isn't accelerating, but it certainly, I would say, feels better than some of the stuff that we've heard, and the fact that savings increased at the right point, when there's confidence, we feel pretty good that spend will move to higher levels.

So if that happens, if the dollar versus currency changes, and all of a sudden our big cross-border business changes, these are things back to one of the original questions, these are cyclical things that are out of our control. So when we look at underlying numbers of transactions and we look at how we're doing on share, the numbers are still very, very strong, and that's what's going to drive the business in the long term, once we move in and out of these different cyclical trends that we have.

VASANT PRABHU: Just one other thing to add, as Charlie said, the underlying transaction trends are very good, and on the margin, even setting aside gas, a stronger dollar is mildly deflationary, as you know, which pays through into payment volumes.

JACK CARSKY: Sam, with that, we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: And our last question is from George Mihalos with Cowen. Your line is now open.

GEORGE MIHALOS, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Just I'll ask a mobile payments question, and that would be, Charlie, any updated thoughts on the potential longer term to monetize tokenization, and maybe bring us up to speed with conversations you're having with issuers about them running their own token vaults? Would appreciate any color there.

CHARLIE SCHARF: We've been very, very consistent. We're not looking to monetize tokenization. Tokenization is -- it is a great enabler of different experiences that are out there. We think we're a logical place for the tokenization to take place, but we don't have to be the only place that tokenization is done.

So there's some that would like to do more work themselves, create the infrastructure to do that, and we're working with people to ensure that people have that ability. But like most things, we have to compete because, we recall the right place with the right set of capabilities, the way that they trust more so than other places. And so for us, it's a service, it's an enabler, but not something that we're looking to charge for.

JACK CARSKY: And with that we want to thank everybody for joining today. If you have any followup calls, feel free to give Victoria or myself a call.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you, speakers, and this does conclude today's conference. Thank you for joining. All parties may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc | pclb : Costco Wholesale Corporation
   IN
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards | iretail : Retail
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160422ec4l009ey
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  Visa  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,770 words
   PD
28 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa's fiscal Q1 2016 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA, INC.: Thanks, Sam. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa, Inc.'s fiscal first-quarter earnings conference call With us today are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer; and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast over the Internet and is accessible on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will be archived on our site for 90 days. A PowerPoint deck containing the financial and statistical highlights of today's call have been posted to our IR website, as well.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could materially differ as a result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro-forma-related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Reg G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release. With that. I'll turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA, INC.: Thank you, Jack. I'm going to start with a series of comments, both about the quarter and a little bit about what we're seeing in the world. Then I will pass it over to Vasant before we take questions. First a few comments about the overall results.

We continue to be pleased with the performance of the Company, given the ongoing macro-economic head winds that we have discussed before. Operating revenue grew 5% nominally, or 8% on a constant-currency basis, reflecting a negative 3-percentage-point impact from FX. Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 10%. Volume growth continued at a healthy pace, growing 11.5% in constant dollars, only down slightly from September's12% growth. US payments volume growth was essentially flat, at about 10%. Again, healthy growth.

International payments, volume growth was 14%, down 1 point from last quarter, but we continue to see weakness in cross-border volume. US outbound spend is strong, but it is offset by continued weakness from Canada, Brazil, and Russia. More recently, we're seeing increasing weakness in the Middle East and China. We do see some areas of strength, such as Mexico, Japan, and New Zealand, but they are obviously smaller markets for us.

Now a couple of words about the US holiday season. Overall, consumer spending by our Visa cardholders during the season was similar to last year, but spending patterns are changing. E-commerce continues to grow at a much higher rate than the spending at physical stores. We saw mid-teens e-commerce growth during the holiday period, versus mid-single-digits growth in the physical world.

More than 25% of all spending on Visa cards during November and December was online, up from less than 20% just three years ago. Also, the pattern of spending during the holidays has changed. While Black Friday and Cyber Monday remain important shopping days, less spending is consolidated on these two days in recent years, and more people delayed their spending to later in the season this year.

We move on and say couple of words about Visa Europe. We're making very good progress. We continue to work towards a projected second calendar quarter closing. We have received two of three required regulatory approvals, with the third one that's required from the European commission. Vasant will discuss it, but we feel very good about the execution of our $16-billion debt financing.

Most importantly, we feel as good about the transaction today as the day we made our announcement. We've had great interactions with our Visa European colleagues. We've had a series of very positive conversations with European financial institutions, and we remain confident that we are creating value and are focused on execution at this point.

Move on to China now. We continue to work towards the ability to make a formal application. We are waiting for final regulations to be released. We have a clear path to have a compliant operating environment so we can compete domestically if we are awarded a license. I was in China last week and participated in the signing of two MOUs. They involve Visa working with two Chinese groups on driving financial inclusion as a means to support poverty alleviation.

The strategic partnership and programs we announced underscore our long-term commitment to China, and to fulfilling the Chinese government's goal of reducing poverty and promoting inclusive finance. We also continue to collaborate with government institutions, industry organizations, and NGOs to support the global goals of alleviating poverty, promoting transparency, and fostering inclusive social and economic development.

As we work through our plans for entry into the domestic Chinese market place, we continue to feel good about our ability to help expand the rate of growth of the Chinese economy, and increase the Chinese banks' ability to compete domestically, especially in the e-commerce space.

Talk for a second about some client activity. In the United States, we expanded our relationship with Fidelity and US Bank, where we are now the exclusive payment network for their co-brand card. Card members can earn cash back with the Fidelity Rewards Visa Signature card and the Fidelity Investments 529 College Rewards Visa Signature card. The new cards in the program will be issued with chip technology for security, and give access to the payment industry's leading digital wallets, including Apple Pay, Samsung Pay, and Android Pay.

Visa and Walmart announced an acceptance agreement with Sam's Club. Beginning next Monday, more than 650 Sam's Club's across the United States and Puerto Rico will begin accepting Visa credit cards in store. Walmart.com and SamsClub.com will also begin supporting Visa Checkout this year.

We continue to expand our relationships with clients around the world, as well. Just a few notable highlights. We've seen very strong renewal activity across the world, in places such as New Zealand, India, China, and Latin America. Some names include A&Z in New Zealand, ICICI, Bank of China, and the Agricultural Bank of China.

In Latin America, we renewed a multi-year credit, debit, and commercial agreement with BBBA, one of the largest issuers within our Latin American region. The deal covers seven markets, including Chile, Peru, Venezuela, Uruguay, Paraguay, Argentina, and Colombia. We renewed a multi-year credit and debit agreement with Bradesco, another one of our largest issuers in Latin America.

Say a few words about Visa Checkout. We continue to be encouraged by the growth that we see since it was launched 18 seconds ago. We have more than 10 million registered users in 16 countries, and over 600 financial institution partners participating globally.

More than 250,000 merchants, including some of our largest global retailers, have signed on to accept Visa Checkout, representing $100 billion in addressable volume. Starbucks, Walgreens, NFL Shop, HSN, and Match are among the new merchants taking advantage of Visa Checkout's ability to deliver seamless digital payments. As I mentioned earlier, Walmart.com and SamsClub.com will also begin supporting it this year.

Our confidence in Visa Checkout is based upon independent research that supports the notion that it makes commerce easier for consumers, and ultimately results in increased sales for merchants. According to new independent research from comScore, Visa Checkout significantly increases sales conversion. Visa Checkout customers completed 86% of transactions, compared to 73% for PayPal Express Checkout, and 57% for the traditional merchant check out.

Visa Checkout customers are more active online shoppers in general, completing 30% more transactions per person than the overall population of online shoppers. 95% of Visa Checkout customers say sign-up was easy, and 96% feel secure making purchases with Visa Checkout.

We recently launched a new platform called Visa Commerce Network, built on the trial pay platform which we acquired in 2015. Visa Commerce Network enables our merchants to deliver targeted discounts and benefits to Visa cardholders in order to acquire new customers and increase sales. Visa cardholders receive these benefits seamlessly by simply using their Visa card to make purchases. No coupons or codes are required.

To date, more than a dozen leading merchants, including Dunkin' Donuts, Regal Entertainment Group, Shake Shack, and others have successfully used Visa Commerce Network. We recently entered into a partnership with Uber. Uber riders have started receiving discounted rides when they use their Visa card at certain local retailers.

Say a couple of words about the migration to EMV in the United States. We reached an important milestone on October 1, which was the official kick-off to chip in the US. We're optimistic about the progress and momentum we're seeing, as banks issue more cards, merchants activate chip terminals, and consumers increasingly make secure chip transactions. Already there are more Visa chip cards issued in the US than in any other country in the world.

More than 200 million Visa chip cards were issued as of December 2015: 43% of all credit cards, representing 72% of purchase volume; 21% of all debit cards, representing 45% of purchase volume. Over 750,000 merchant locations have enabled EMV, representing 17% of the total face-to-face locations in the US. Based on our recent client surveys, we expect 50% of locations to be enabled by the end of this year. While we know we have a long way to go over the next few years to reach the critical mass of adoption that we desire, we feel very good about the progress to date.

Now before I turn it over to Vasant, just a few comments about the environment. It's clearly a mixed bag, but certainly creating some short-term pressures for us. The head winds we discussed last quarter continue, and are probably slightly worse, with little relief in sight in the short term. As a reminder, they are the translation impact of the strong US dollar, reduced cross-border volume driven by the strong dollar, continuing drag from lower oil prices. While we are believers in China for the long term, the domestic volatility is creating increased head winds for us.

These head winds are muting our growth today, both through the translation effects, as well as reduced business volumes, and will likely continue for the foreseeable future; but our ability to grow over the long term will be driven by our continued strong underlying payment volume growth. Our mindset is that we have to be cautious in the short term due to the head winds, but the long-term fundamentals of our business volume growth remains strong.

As I've said before, our business volumes can change quickly. With changes in the US dollar and domestic consumer confidence around the world, it's just hard to predict the timing. Vasant will cover it in more detail, but even though there's been much talk over the past few weeks of a slow-down in the US, our business volumes in January have been strong.

Given all of this, our results are reasonably good, which speaks to the strength of our business model, our brand, our people, but do not reflect the long-term value of the franchise. But the pressures we have seen will likely continue for the seeable future before abating. Now over to Vasant.

VASANT PRABHU, CFO, VISA, INC.: Thanks, Charlie. In a turbulent and uncertain global environment, we're pleased to report that our business performed well in the first quarter, with results modestly ahead of our expectations. A few highlights. Net operating revenues increased 8% in constant dollars. The exchange rate drag was 3 percentage points, both in line with expectations. Weaker-than-anticipated cross-border revenue was offset by lower-than-expected client incentives. Client incentives were lower due to softer volumes in international markets and some deal delays.

Expenses only grew 2%, well below the high-single-digit rate we had indicated. We have focused hard on prioritizing and phasing our spending programs, given the uncertain macro-economic environment. As the year progresses, we will continue to look at opportunities to moderate expense growth while ensuring critical initiatives are adequately funded.

We marked down the value of the Visa Europe put from $255 million to $0 since the VE Board, Visa Europe Board, amended the put in connection with our proposed acquisition. We are required to revalue the put each quarter. We're still awaiting regulatory clearance, but expect to close the transaction in line with the transaction agreement, leading us to lower the value of the put. This non-cash, non-operating gain added $0.10 to our reported earning.

As a reminder, should the deal not close, the put will be reinstated in its un-amended form, and we will need to value this liability based on all available information at that point. In December we issued $16 billion in debt, with maturities ranging from 2 to 30 years. The weighted average interest rate was 3.08%, with a weighted average maturity of 13.1 years. This was the low end of the 3% to 3.5% interest rate range we indicated last year.

We are pleased with this outcome. We will of course use the proceeds to fund the up-front cash consideration for the Visa Europe acquisition, as well as to step up stock buy-backs over the next five to six quarters, to offset the dilutive impact of preferred stock that will be issued to VE members.

With a debt structure now in place, we will have interest expenses of $125 million each quarter, almost $0.04 per share. In the first quarter, we recorded interest expense of $24 million. We will incur the full $125 million interest expense in the second quarter, with no offsetting benefit from Visa Europe operating income.

Finally, we repurchased 25.7 million shares during the quarter at an average price of $78.52 per share, for a total of $2 billion. As we had indicated, we stepped up the pace of our buy-backs to make up for stock not purchased in the fourth quarter last year, due to the impending Visa Europe transaction. At the end of the quarter, we had remaining authorization of $5.8 billion for stock repurchases. We have continued to be buyers of our stock in January under our 10(b)(5) program.

Moving on to the quarter's business drivers. Global payment volume growth in constant dollars for the December quarter continue to be strong at 11%. US credit grew 9%, moderating 1 percentage point compared to the September quarter, as the positive effects of the Chase conversion have lapsed. US debit grew 10%, up 1 percentage point, benefiting from some interlinked gains.

Adjusted for conversion, and the impact of gas prices, underlying growth in US payment volumes for both debit and credit has stayed very stable over the past several quarters. In the quarter, the gas price drag was around 1 percentage point on credit, and 2 percentage points on debit. In December, we lapsed the inflection point for gas price declines, which should help reported growth rates going forward, although gas prices will remain a modest drag, since pricing is still below last year.

This is already evident in January US aggregate payment volume numbers, which show a modest up-tick of one percentage point to 11% through January 21. To date, macroeconomic weakness is not evident in US consumer spending, but this could change as the year progresses.

International payment volume constant-dollar growth of 14% was down 1 percentage point from the prior quarter. While 14% is a healthy level of growth, we have seen a step down in growth rate in Brazil, Russia, and the Middle East, as a result of the oil price collapse and weakness in commodity markets. Growth has remained strong across Mexico and other parts of Latin America, as well as parts of Asia, like India. Of course, the impact of the strong dollar on international payment volumes has been significant, with growth flat in nominal terms.

Cross-border volumes have been slowing for several quarters now. Cross-border growth continued to decelerate, dropping to 4% in the December quarter, from 5% in the prior quarter. In the past quarter, we saw a sharp slow-down in out-bound commerce from China and the Middle East, and the strong dollar continues to hurt commerce into the US.

You might recall that we had expected cross-border trends to remain weak in the first half, and had hoped for some improvement in the second half of our fiscal year, as comparisons became easier and/or the dollar stabilized. Given recent trends, that appears less likely, due to the deceleration from oil-linked and China-linked economies.

Through January 21, cross-border volume growth in constant dollars is running at 5%. On the positive front, in-bound commerce into Europe remains the strongest corridor, though this has also slowed, due to China and the Middle East. Post the closing of the Visa Europe transaction, we will begin to benefit from growth of commerce into Europe.

Transactions processed over VisaNet total $19 billion in the first quarter, an 8% increase over the prior period, and unchanged from the September quarter. The US delivered 11% growth, and international growth was flat, both unchanged from the prior quarter. As a reminder, the international growth rate is negatively impacted by the transfer of domestic processing in Russia that started at the end of April. Through January 21, processed transaction growth was 8%, with a US rate of 11%, and flat international growth.

Turning to our financial results. Service revenues grew 7%, in excess of nominal payment volume growth of 4%, helped by the pricing actions we took last year. Data processing revenues also grew 7%. Both were in line with our expectations.

International revenue growth dropped to 6%, from 16% in the prior quarter. Currency volatility moderated substantially in the quarter, reverting to the long-term mean. This drives most of the decline in the reported rate of growth. The impact of the pricing actions we took last year was largely offset by the significant negative impact from exchange rates.

While this sharp decline in the growth rate of international revenues was mostly expected, cross-border volumes were weaker, as I mentioned earlier, due to China and the Middle East. Exchange rates and revenues from currency volatility will continue to be a drag on reported international revenue growth through the year. Other revenues were down 3%, primarily as a result of lower license fees generated outside the US due to slowing payment volume growth.

As it became clear that the global economy was going to experience a period of turbulence and uncertainty, we focused hard on prioritizing and phasing our spending plans for the year. As such, we were able to limit our expense growth to 2%. We held the line on personnel costs and professional fees. Marketing programs have been re-prioritized, and phased in the context of the uncertain revenue outlook for the year.

Network and processing expenses grew, due to the NSB cash transition in Russia. Reported G&A expenses were up, driven by a variety of factors, including exchange rate adjustments and cost of product enhancements. Our adjusted effective tax rate was 29.3%, modestly lower than our full-year expectation of low 30%s. This was largely due to the recognition of certain benefits earlier than we had anticipated. Our full-year tax rate projection remains unchanged.

Looking ahead to the second quarter, service and transaction processing revenue trends remain unchanged. International revenues remain weak. Currency volatilities are high going into the quarter, but could revert to the mean, as they did last quarter, and we will lap high volatilities from last year.

The exchange rate drag remains approximately 3 percentage points. Net-net, mid-single-digit nominal revenue growth appears likely to be sustained. Expense growth rate will step up to the mid-single-digit range, with increases in personnel costs, and the growth in network and processing expenses due to Russia.

One big change between the two quarters, which is important to note, is interest expense. We will have a full quarter's interest expense starting in the second quarter of $125 million, almost $0.04 per share. We want to make sure you all incorporate this into your models going forward.

As we look ahead to the second half of the year, our primary concern is the economic weakness in international markets, and the risk that will impact the US. As you may recall from our commentary last quarter, our outlook assumed some second-half acceleration in US growth, and higher cross-border growth due to easier comparisons. Current trends create some uncertainty around our revenue outlook for the year. As the year progresses, we will continue to look at opportunities to moderate expense growth, while ensuring critical initiatives are adequately funded. At this point, there is not much more we can tell you about the back half.

In terms of Visa Europe, we do not have any financial updates at this time. As a reminder, our outlook for the full year excludes Visa Europe. Assuming things proceed as planned, we will provide more detail on our second-half expectations, inclusive of Visa Europe, we talk to you again at the end of April. With that, I'll turn this back to Jack.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Vasant. Sam, at this point we're ready to start Q&A. I'd just to remind everybody if they could please keep their questions to a single question, and then queue back up so that more folks are able to get up on the call.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Bob Napoli, William Blair.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Thank you, and good afternoon. A question just on the competitive intensity of the industry, and any changes you may be seeing. Certainly, the credit card industry broadly at the margin continues to seem to get somewhat more competitive. You also have some regulatory challenges around the world. Historically, this hasn't really been able to penetrate its way through to Visa and MasterCard revenue yields. I was wondering if you could give any update, given the competitive changes on the issuer side, and the regulatory changes, if there is anything for us to be concerned about on the revenue yield for the business?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Well, I think the business is competitive. I always remind everyone that it's been -- our business has been competitive since the day we went public. We and MasterCard evolved our structures roughly the same period of time. We compete in the market place every single day. That has been a very consistent way of doing business.

Domestically across the world there are local networks that we compete with. There are emerging global competitors, such as Chinese Union Bank in the traditional space, as well as a series of people in the e-comm space, whose names you know that we continue to compete with.

I think when we think about what we have at Visa in the quality of the network, the safety, the security, the global acceptance, and now the capabilities that we have built in the world of digital commerce, and the value-added services, we feel terrific about our ability to continue to compete. We're very clear that we know that we have to continue to add value to transactions that run over our network in order to sustain the kind of margins that make this such an attractive business. We think that there are a couple of us, with us leading the pack, who are uniquely qualified to do that. Those these, I think, are very consistent with where they were last quarter, last year, and a couple of years ago.

JACK CARSKY: Next question?

OPERATOR: Dan Perlin, RBC Capital Markets.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: The question I have is as you think about serving all these incremental constituencies, much more merchant-direct and centric, and then also much more consumer-direct and centric. I'm wondering how you are prioritizing your expenses when you think about throttling back on projects, and what we should be mindful of? As I look back on your expense lines, maybe back in -- when we were coming out of the last recession, your actually marketing dollars as an absolute dollar almost at absolute levels. I don't know that you pull that back more. I'm just wondering where you throttle back? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, let me take a stab at it, and then Vasant, you can add anything you want to add. First of all, I want to be really clear for a second. We are not building a business which is consumer-direct, and we're not building a business which is merchant-direct. There are occasional times when we will do something directly with the consumer or directly with the merchant, but it's in a way that supports the four-party model, in a way we believe is ultimately good for issuers and acquirers. We're just acting as the facilitator.

We still very much believe that the model that we have is an amazing model, and we continue to -- most of what we do to work through those people. The fact is we are a consumer brand, and we have a role that we've got to play there.

When it comes to the comments on expenses, what you should take away is that nothing that we have done when it comes to re-phasing, delaying, or reducing any of the expense dollars that we contemplated, in our minds relate to anything which is going to help build the business for the future. If you asked us are we as efficient as we should be, are we spending every last dollar wisely across the place, the answer is no, and the answer is still no today.

What this environment does is it gives us the ability to take a harder look at where we are not as efficient as we should be, and attack those dollars. We've not cut back on anything that relates to building our digital business, the APIs and SDKs that are part of the developer center, the things that we are doing on behalf of merchants, the things that we're doing on behalf of the issuers to build our consulting services. We're still very committed to building that. As we think about what this environment does is, it's just creating extra focus for us.

We certainly don't think that the slow-down that we're seeing that's affecting the business is something that changes the business model for the long term. We're not going to change the things that we think really build the business for the long term, as we sit here.

VASANT PRABHU: The only other things I would add is we've said that the expense growth rate will be back in the mid-single digits in the second quarter. As Charlie said, there's nothing we've done to date that does anything in terms of either the funding or the pacing of critical initiatives, whether that's Visa Checkout, Visa Direct, (inaudible - accent) service, all the critical initiatives. Times like these are a good opportunity to take a hard look at is every dollar well spent, prioritize once again. We took some time to do that in the first quarter. In the second quarter the expense growth rate will be back in the mid-single digits. We'll keep monitoring the external situation.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Sam?

OPERATOR: Chris Brendler, Stifel.

CHRISTOPHER BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Hi, thanks. Good afternoon. I wanted to ask another question on the competitive environment, and get your updated thoughts on PayPal, in particular. It seems like they have been a good supporter of online volumes, and a lot of transactions are funded by cards. The [venlo] opportunity seems a little bit different from a [discrimination]threat. I just wanted to hear your thoughts on that particular threat.

Also, when it comes to Braintree and the in-app development and the potential for discrimination risk there, is there a competitive response from Visa to some of the technology that they have been able to over in that kind of stuff. Is that an area you can potentially expand into becoming a competitor when it comes to online in-app purchases? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, let me do the first one first. I'm not going to talk about any specific company. What I will say is that we love partnering with people that we think are good for the payment system, and preserve our clients' roles and our role in the ecosystem. There are many examples around the world of people that we partner with in order to do that. There are also some examples of people that don't do that. People that generate business for us in the short term, whose business model is built around disintermediating us eventually and our clients, is not something that we like, not something that we support, and not something that we're just going to sit idly by and watch.

Our first preference is to figure out how to work differently with those people. Those are the active conversations that we're engaged in. If we can't get to a productive conclusion, there are a lot of things at our disposal that we can do, which we have not done, which will enable us, we believe, to compete in a very clear and very direct way, in a way that's a level playing field for everyone. Our first preference is to figure out how to partner with people, but if that doesn't work out, then we will compete directly with them. That will evolve in the near future. More to come on that.

In the second question was around more specific Chris. I guess the question was, there are people like Braintree out there who services help enable mobile commerce, and what our response to that.

The second question was around more specific Stripe, Sanjay -- I mean Chris? I guess the question was there are people like Braintree out there whose services help enable mobile commerce, and what's our response to that. On this one our response is multiple, on multiple fronts.

First of all, we have a great business in CyberSource, where we also own a business called Authorize.net that deals with smaller merchants and helps enable smaller merchants to accept online payments. That business is focused both in the browser space, but also in the mobile space. We've just made a series of changes internally with some leadership changes that we're very excited about, to help re-energized the business there and to be in a position to compete.

We also made an investment in Stripe and work very closely with them. We think they are just extremely talented people who are almost solely focused on the mobile space, and enabling mobile commerce in a way that's very friendly to us. We're excited to continue to help them build their business globally.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Sam?

OPERATOR: Mosh Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSH ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great. Could you talk a little bit about -- you mentioned a couple of very large merchants that are going to be deploying Visa Checkout this year. Can you talk a little bit about what the sales and implementation cycle might be, and how to think about the progression, perhaps over the next couple of years in that? It seems like it's pretty important from a competitive standpoint?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, the sales cycle -- I mean honestly the sales cycle varies dramatically with the priorities that the individual merchants have. Obviously the more continuing success that we have changes that sales cycle, as well. When we're able to quote the kind of numbers that we're able to quote on comScore for what it actually does to merchant sites, and the merchants themselves can actually share those experiences, nothing is -- nothing changes the sales discussion more than that.

I think it's fair to say when we first started these discussions it could be six to nine months in terms of a calling process, if not longer. I will tell you I saw a note today on the way down here that we got an incoming call from a sizeable merchant, which was very surprising to me, saying that they would like to implement Visa Checkout.

It really is -- the game is changing, but we also -- in our minds, we know -- this is merchant by merchant. It's a long-term build. We just have to continue to show the kinds of progress that we're seeing with these -- both the numbers of merchants and the size of merchants.

The implementation piece, I forgot what it was, but it's dramatically quicker and easier for a merchant to implement. If they can fit us into their queue, it's literally weeks at this point, as opposed to when we had the first incarnation, it was multiple months. The real issue is just making sure they understand why it's good for them, and having a merchant decide that it's a priority for them, and that's what we're starting to see.

JACK CARSKY: Next question?

OPERATOR: Jason Kupferberg, Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks, guys. This quarter clearly seems to support the view that Visa can really protect the bottom line with cost controls, and more or less any macro climate; but obviously the tone is getting understandably more cautious regarding the volume outlook. I understand you're not changing your FY16 revenue guidance, but just curious whether or not the lower end now feels more likely than it did at the last earnings call. Then just very quickly, any metrics on Visa Checkout volume you can share?

VASANT PRABHU: I'll just jump in on your first question. The thing to point out is, if you look at international payment volumes as we had in our comments, in constant dollars they were actually up 14%. It's still incredibly healthy growth. Then in nominal terms it comes down to 0%. You can see what a huge impact exchange rates have had. US payment volumes, both credit and debit, if you just for conversion and GAAP, have been remarkably stable. That's what makes us optimistic about the long term.

In the short run, as Charlie said, there's two issues. The strong dollar is hurting commerce into the US, which is a very sizable business for us, and has been a big drag now for multiple years. The dollar also affects translation. You saw that from 14% constant-dollar growth to 0%. It's huge. Then cross-border trends clearly are being hurt by both the strong dollar, as well as what's happening in commodity markets, China, et cetera.

We see all these as not really reflecting the long-term trends in our business. We really don't want to change anything in terms of our long-term profile of investment. But we are also mindful of the fact that the next few quarters we will face the same pressures. All we're really doing is being prudent and prioritizing, but not fundamentally changing anything in our investment posture. The next question was on Visa Checkout numbers. I think you provided some in your comments.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, but we actually don't provide the volumes.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thanks very much. Charlie, my question is also on an element of the competitive environment, which is we've seen Visa now maybe partnership in new ways with some of the banks in order to win portfolios that were -- and co-brand relationships that were up for RFP. Of course, there is the evolving relationship with JPMorgan and what they're doing there on Chase Pay.

I wonder, is there something occurring now between Visa and the banks in terms of the kind of relationship that banks are seeking to have with you in the United States. That's different than in the past, because it seems like the stance is a little more aggressive in response to some of the dynamics that are making growth so hard to come by in the states?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I think it's a good question. I think it's -- there are a couple of different things going on. I think first of all, part of what you're seeing in the evolving relationships that banks have with the networks -- not just in the US but around the world -- is as the years passed, since we've transitioned from association to public Company, networks are sorting out their -- I'm sorry, banks are sorting out their point of views on networks, and what they want those relationships to look like.

What you start to see now is at the same time payments evolving very rapidly, driven mostly by digital, but by -- but I think also as importantly, the payments businesses broadly, including the debit card business and the credit card businesses, are now very much a part of what a band does and the way they think about their entire relationships, as opposed to five, six, seven, eight years ago, we were transitioning from the majority of the business being done on the credit side by standalone companies, to all of a sudden being integrated into a bank but still being run separately.

As the combine these businesses and really run them as an integrated business, they are now thinking about how they need to have a partnership with a payment network, which is much more strategic, as opposed to just a third-party provider of services.

What you're seeing is, you're seeing longer-term contracts, whether it's people used to do one- and two-year contracts; now you've seen us do three, five, seven, and 10, in some cases. That's because it's a -- it is a different kind of relationship.

I think the other thing that's going on in the market place is you start to see, especially here in the United States, banks have become very good at understanding the different segments, the different opportunities that they have to use payment products to serve their clients. They're able to compete with the likes of other names out there that they didn't necessarily focus on before, and are having great success in that. When you have success, it gives you confidence to go get more aggressive, and some of these co-brands and some of these other things that you see.

What we want to do is to be the payment partner of choice; to be the one that helps them think strategically, as well as to be the best actual provider of network services; and you're seeing people make choices relative to who their network partner is. What that means for the aggressiveness in the market place is it's a more competitive market place. Again, to me that's something -- we've seen it increasing over a period of time. It's because there are people, there are more people that have better abilities in the payment space today than there were three years ago, five years ago, or 10 years ago.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Jim Schneider, Goldman Sachs.

JIM SCHNEIDER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. I was wondering if I could ask a question about the US consumer trends that you're seeing. Clearly, it sounds like from the data you've seen so far, you're not seeing any material down-tick in the US consumer though you're watching it very closely. Can you talk about any underlying stats you're looking at?

Almost a year ago you talked about the speculation about lower gas prices driving increased saving and banking of that savings. I'm wondering if you're seeing any evidence of increasing discretionary spend. Then this is a clarification relative to the one point of acceleration you mentioned so far year to date. If I stripped out the effect of lower gas prices, would you still be seeing the same consistent underlying trends, or the one point of acceleration? Thank you.

VASANT PRABHU: I think what we're seeing is a very stable US consumer environment. If you look at multiple quarters all the way through last year, and into this year, and you adjust for, as we said, conversions and gas prices, it's been very stable -- certainly question marks about whether there's benefits from gas prices floating into. We've seen a little bit of that on the debit side. We said that earlier.

Yes, there is a small benefit, as you look at January, from the impact of gas prices declining; but gas prices are still below where they were last year. We had a 2-percentage-point impact on debit, 1% on credit. That will moderate, but it won't go away completely. Most of it we would ascribe to that.

I wouldn't read too much into three weeks of January. We then had some awful weather in the last few weeks -- last few days, and that definitely will affect some of the commerce. Overall, I don't think there's a whole lot more we have to add than what Charlie gave you in terms of holiday spend, the shift to commerce channels. I don't know if there's anything else you could add?

CHARLIE SCHARF: No, I think that's it.

JACK CARSKY: Okay, next question.

OPERATOR: Darrin Peller, Barclays.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, guys. Look, I just want to follow up on guidance. Since your guidance was provided last quarter, we've had further deterioration on some macro areas. You mentioned gas prices in definitely some of the emerging oil-based economies. But again, you maintain your guidance for now and did pretty well in the quarter.

As of now, do you include similar trends on the slower areas like Brazil, Russia, Middle East, as persisting at these similar rates throughout the year? Then what, if anything, would you say has been a surprise to the up side since last quarter on revenue that might offset the slower macro -- maybe it was cross-border versus the 3% rate? If you could just give us more color on that? Thanks, guys.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, listen. This whole concept of guidance is -- it's a very strange thing, right? Because you're asking us what we think our volumes will be next quarter, the quarter after that and the quarter after that. We know a little more than you know, not a whole lot more. Asking people to give precision in terms of what's going to happen effectively to the dollar consumer confidence and things like that, we really don't know.

What we try and do is be as transparent as we can about what we do know. We recognize that it's hard sometimes to figure out what a trend is; and it's hard to know what the triggers will be to either see an up-tick or a down-tick. We've tried to be very clear in our remarks that we are not changing guidance, but if we don't see improvement, then the guidance will come under pressure.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, I think if you want to know what could offset, we told you that we saw some additional factors that would cause a deceleration in cross-border trends. That was really two main things. It was travel out of China, and it was travel out of oil-linked economies. What could cause -- what is the most significant variable that could cause [chain] trends to change in a positive way? Do we know it's going to happen? We don't; but it's the dollar.

If the dollar begins to show some signs of weakness, clearly it has a big impact on our business -- not immediately, but over time on two fronts, one the translation impact, which you can all estimate. But then there is the other impact which will play out over time, which is in commerce into the US, which is a big part of our business. Then in the second half, certainly Europe will be part of Visa. The travel into Europe has been better than travel into other geographies. Hopefully that will help us. Some of that, we knew going into the year and giving you some of our perspective, we incorporated some of that.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Just to give you a little sense, we were looking earlier in detail at cross-border spend. If you look at -- look over a much longer period of time. You go back to when our cross-border growth was in the low-double digits, versus where it is today, and say where is -- what's the biggest effect, almost something like 75% or 80% of that effect is the reduction, is from sales wired in the US. It's the drop in spending of non-US cardholders in the United States.

It's a very dramatic, very clear, very specific item, predominantly driven by the dollar -- not totally, but predominantly driven by the dollar. It moves quickly on the way down, and at some point it could quickly change the other way, as well. We just don't know when.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Sam?

OPERATOR: Ken Bruce, Bank of America.

KEN BRUCE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, good afternoon. My questions really relate to some earlier comments. I recognize that you have some expenses that you can manage. I was wondering if you might be able to provide some sense as to what you would -- how we should be thinking about what would be core spending or core investments in the expenses, versus maybe some of those areas that you talked about in terms of gaining more efficiency, so we can have an understanding as to how much leverage you have from that standpoint? Second question, and this is granular, but are you seeing any changes in activity within the US in those areas that are particularly known for high energy, or high exposure to gas and oil in particular? Thank you.

VASANT PRABHU: I think you can see some of this from things that we might put out through our economics group, but there is clearly -- you can see the subdued activity in oil-related states. The west is doing better in aggregate than other parts of the country. But other than that, I don't think there's anything we would tell you that is not available from other sources of data that you see.

The other question was on the cost side. What we said earlier was costs related to technology initiatives that are critical to product development for the future, cyber-security, those have a long-term -- we have long-term perspective on that, and there really is no change in our posture on those things. It's on the margin where we can tighten the belt on things that may be somewhat more discretionary, and you could do them later or you could do them now. There comes a point where you certainly don't want to cut below certain levels, so we're being very prudent. We see many of these as transient and cyclical kinds of things, with some strong underlying trends. We see no reason to change our posture and our long-term investment outlook.

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only thing I would add is that we're going through the initial discussions with our colleagues at Visa Europe. Obviously after we close the transaction, we will go through a full-fledged integration. That is an opportunity to help us focus on efficiency in general.

To repeat what we said is that we still are believers that the underlying trends in the business are extraordinarily strong, that there are places that commerce is moving to, and we're building the appropriate solutions that will enable us to be as successful in the digital world as been in the physical world, and we're very committed to continue to invest in that space.

But remember, we are a very young for-profit Company. It wasn't that long that we were an association. Opportunities to focus internally and to get smart about where you're spending your dollars to ensure that they're going towards the future and towards client-driven things is a good thing. That's our focus as we talk about the allocation of our resources.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Sam?

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: Thank you. I have a question on the share buy-back and the dilution offset to the preferred issuance. Understanding the markets are volatile, but is there anything that precludes you from maybe having a little bit of a shorter time horizon in repurchasing those shares? One data point question. I'm sorry if you guys have disclosed this before, but do we have a specific number on how much of your volume is travel that's coming out of China into other countries? Thank you.

VASANT PRABHU: I believe on the second question, no, we don't provide that. In terms of buy-backs, if you calibrate our buy-backs, as you know, our buy-backs have always been more programmatic than opportunistic. But within a programmatic buy-back, you've seen us calibrate up or down depending on market conditions, and our assessments of valuation and so on.

Yes, there are opportunities to speed it up if we want to. But I think our best expectation remains what we told you earlier, which is that our goal is to buy back or offset the dilution caused by the issuance of the preferred stock by the end of FY17. The pace in which we do that, whether it's more in some quarters, less in others, I'm sure will calibrate as each quarter comes by.

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only thing I'll say is, to add on that is, we -- I guess I'll say it this way. If you look at our actions on the debt offering, we issued the debt in December, well ahead of what we expect to be the closing date, because we looked at what we thought the right long-term economic decision was, as opposed to what the negative effect would be this quarter and next quarter. When it comes to buy-backs, it's the same economic discussion. Obviously depending on the size, depending on how much you want to accelerate, there are different costs to do those things, and we think about that in terms of what the right thing for us to do is.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, Autonomous.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: Hi, thanks. Two questions. First, just Vasant, should we expect the incentives that were pushed out due to deal delays to show up in the fiscal second quarter? Will they be spread out more through the year? Secondly, Charlie, Visa Checkout, we've been noticing a lot of incentives being pushed through the channel for consumers to sign up and use the offering. I was wondering if you could comment at all regarding potential share gains against competitors in the digital wallet space, if there's any anecdotal evidence of that yet? Thanks.

VASANT PRABHU: On planned incentives, as I mentioned in my comments, some of the reasons they were lower than we expected, they were in the middle of the range rather than the high end of the range, so it was a small difference. Partly it was volumes, because our international volumes were lower, and so you get a reduction in incentive payments as a result of lower volumes. It is only partly because of delays. Some of those, yes, they will move into the second quarter. You should expect that second-quarter client incentive range will not look a whole lot different than the first quarter. But these are small shifts, these are not big shifts. I tuned out after the first question was the second question? Visa Checkout.

JACK CARSKY: Visa Checkout. Anecdotally, do we know if we're gaining share over other checkout-type solutions?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I don't know the answer to that, to be honest.

JACK CARSKY: With that, we'll go to the next question.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane, Deutsche bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, I just wanted to ask again about the revenue sensitivity. If cross-border doesn't accelerate in the US, doesn't accelerate in the second half 2016 as is in the guidance, let's just say the cross-border stays at this depressed level along with the US staying more of the same, are we talking about potentially than the revenue guidance for the full fiscal year 2016 has to come in, and you would protect the bottom line through other cost cuts? Just want to make sure I know the sensitivity of what happens if we stay in more of the same environment? Thanks.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, I think you could probably run those numbers as well as we can. Cross-border, the international revenues are roughly 20% of our revenue base. They're about 6% now. Maybe there was an expectation that it would be somewhat better in the second half as we lap easier comparisons. You can look at if it stays at these levels -- we wouldn't do anything that wouldn't -- would be wrong for the long term in our business. As we said, we will continue to look at creating and prioritizing expenses while investing in things that matter.

I don't think we're suggesting that we can offset all revenue shortfalls that might emerge. It's too early, really, to tell you how the second half might shape. As you know, when we get to the second half, the comparisons do get somewhat easier. We'll have to see how that plays out. We'll have to see what the dollar is doing at that point. Lots of unknowns. We've given you our best sense of the next quarter. It looks to be very similar to what we saw in the first quarter. That's about as good as --

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only thing I would add is -- to your point, Vasant, we tried -- we feel like we've got a much better line of sight obviously to the next quarter, so we tried to be as clear as we can there. As we get to the end of the next quarter, by that point we should have a much more definitive point of view on what the year looks like, as well as the impact of what Visa Europe will be at that point in time.

JACK CARSKY: At this point in time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Tien-tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks for fitting me in. Good job on the expenses here. I just wanted to ask about some of the deal wins, and if there's any update on the timing. I'm curious if your outlook already contemplates USAA, and I guess Costco and some of those things coming on? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, there is no update on those things. They are all proceeding on plan, and they were in our guidance.

JACK CARSKY: With that, we would like to thank everybody for joining us today. If you have any additional questions, please feel free to give either myself or Victoria a call. Take care.

OPERATOR: Thank you, speakers. This does conclude today's conference. Thank you for joining. All parties may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160129ec1s0076k
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  Visa  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
14,753 words
   PD
2 November 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa's FY15 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thanks, Dexter. Good early morning, everyone, and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fourth-quarter and full FY15 earnings conference call and Visa Europe acquisition discussion. With us today from London are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer, and Nicola Huss, Visa Europe's Chief Executive Officer, while here in California we have Vasant Prabhu, Visa Inc.'s Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the Internet and is accessible on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will be archived on our site for the next 30 days. PowerPoint decks containing the financial and statistical highlights of today's earnings commentary and an overview of the Visa Europe transaction were posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that these presentations may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance and our actual results could materially differ as a result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, to related GAAP measures and other information required by Reg G of the SEC, are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release. With that I'll now turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks a lot, Jack. And greetings from London. It's great to have Nicola here, as well. You'll be hearing from him in just a little bit. We certainly appreciate the early hour especially for those on the West Coast this morning. Given our announcement regarding Europe, we thought it was important to do the call as early as possible given the desire to communicate with our clients, employees and partners here in Europe. We're quite excited about our announcements and have a full agenda so we'll try and move through our prepared material quickly, leaving plenty of time for Q&A at the end.

We have six topics to talk about this morning. First, we reported a solid fourth quarter and strong year end to FY15. Second, we'll review our outlook for the FY16 year on a standalone basis. Third, I have some brief comments on our previously announced dividend increase.

And, fourth, we announced the acquisition of Visa Europe. As you know, we have been clear that this was a transaction that we thought made tremendous sense for both our Company but also for Visa Europe and its members. So, we're thrilled to be able to move forward as one Company.

And with the Visa Europe acquisition we announced two other items regarding our capital structure. First, our Board has approved an increase to our buyback authorization to bring the total available to $7.8 billion. And second, we announced that we will implement a new capital structure for the Company. We intend to raise $15 billion to $16 billion of debt in conjunction with the Visa Europe announcement. But you'll see that we view this as a trigger to implement a more efficient long-term capital structure for the Company.

We'll first talk about our earnings results and outlook for 2016, then we'll discuss the Visa Europe acquisition and our capital actions, leaving time for questions. With that I'll turn it back to Vasant.

VASANT PRABHU, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Charlie. As Charlie indicated, we have a lot to talk about on this call. I will only comment briefly on our fourth-quarter and 2015 results and spend most of my time giving you as comprehensive a picture as we can of our outlook for FY16.

We're pleased to report another strong quarter and full-FY results with solid revenue and earnings growth. Our high growth in a tepid global environment demonstrates yet again the fundamental resilience of our business model. Results were generally in line with our expectations going into the quarter with a few call-outs.

First, our core metrics remained robust around the globe. The underlying secular conversion from cash and checks to electronic forms of payment continues at a fast clip, as demonstrated by high domestic payment volume growth rates. This is obscured by the significant drag caused by the strengthening of the dollar against most major currencies over the course of the year. In the fourth quarter this impact worsened as the dollar strengthened further against key currencies. This hurts us not only in currency translation terms but also in slowing cross-border volume growth.

Second, as expected, client incentive levels in the quarter came in at 18.4%, well above the full-year run rate of 17.1%. This sets us up well for FY16 payments volume growth. Several key renewals as well as a couple of significant wins will drive the incentive rate higher in 2016. I'll talk more about this when I discuss our outlook for 2016.

Third, expense growth was somewhat higher than we had anticipated due to a legal settlement in Australia and Visa Europe transaction costs. This cost us about $0.01 of EPS in the quarter.

Finally, we did not repurchase stock in the quarter, due the Visa Europe conversations that were under way. For the full year, we repurchased 44.1 million shares at a price of just under $66 per share for a total of $2.9 billion. We currently have authorization to repurchase up to $2.8 billion of stock under our prior plan and an incremental $5 billion recently authorized by our Board.

Moving on to the quarter's business drivers and our financial results. Global payments volume growth in constant dollars for the September quarter continued to be strong at 12%. US credit grew 10%, moderating 2% compared to the June quarter as a positive effects of the Chase conversion win.

US debit grew at 9%, up 3 points from June. Though gasoline prices continued to have a significant negative effect of approximately 2 percentage points, growth in [intellect] volume tied to certain routing wins offset a significant portion of the gas impact.

International payments volume, constant dollar growth of 15% was up over the prior quarter, with increases posted in all regions, and more specifically powered by the Middle East, Sub-Sahara and Africa and Mexico. More recently, through October 28, US payments volume growth was 9%, with US credit growing 9% and debit 10%, a slight down-tick in credit and up-tick in debit versus the fourth quarter.

Global cross-border volume growth declined to 5% after three consecutive quarters of 8% constant-dollar growth. As has been the case for several quarters now, the strengthening of the US dollar is negatively impacting key corridors across border commerce. Specifically, outbound commerce from Russia, Canada and Brazil have deteriorated further in the past few months.

While growth rates were still high in Q4, outbound commerce from China has seen a moderation in trend. Inbound commerce into the US continued to drift lower in August and September. The bright spots are outbound commerce from the US and the Middle East, commerce into Europe has been growing from most regions but as you know we do not benefit as much from it currently.

Despite the slowdown in cross-border payment volume growth and the significant negative drag from currency translation, international revenues grew 16% helped by the previously announced pricing actions and continued high-currency volatility. Overall, growth was impacted relatively equally by pricing and currency volatility.

Through October 28 cross-border volume growth on a constant-dollar basis has slowed further to 3%, in line with the August, September trend. Transactions processed over VisaNet totaled $18 billion in the fourth quarter, an 8% increase over the prior-year period, and unchanged from the June quarter. The US delivered 11% growth while international growth was flat.

International process transaction growth is 13% when you normalize for the transfer of domestic processing in Russia that started at the end of April. Through October 28, Russia's transaction growth was 8% with a US rate of 11% and an international growth rate that remained flat. The international rate of course being impacted by Russia. Overall, we had a strong finish to another solid year of top- and bottom-line growth.

Net operating revenue in the quarter was $3.6 billion, a 13% increase year over year in constant dollars or 11% in nominal dollars. For the full FY, net operating revenue was up 12% on a constant-currency basis, over 9% in nominal dollars.

Diluted earnings per share in the quarter was $0.62, a 16% increase in constant dollars, or 14% on a nominal basis over the prior-year's adjusted results. For the full FY, diluted adjusted earnings per share grew 18% on a constant-currency basis, almost 16% in nominal dollars.

With that I'll move on to our outlook for FY16, starting with payment volumes. Payment volumes globally have grown around 11% in constant dollars for the past two years. As we look ahead to 2016, we're anticipating an up-tick in growth driven by the US. Most of this step-up in the US growth rate is expected in the second quarter of FY16 and beyond.

The first-quarter trend should be generally in line with what we experienced in the fourth quarter of FY15. As we enter the second quarter of FY16, we begin to fully lap the big gas price declines from last year.

In the second half USAA conversions are expected to start and then late in the FY Costco conversions should commence. Offsetting these to some extent will be the end of JPMorgan's conversion gains.

Outside the US, easier comparisons in our Latin America and EMEA regions as they lap the sharp declines last year in Brazil and Russia should help reported growth rates. If all this plays out as we expect, global payments volume growth will accelerate in 2016, ramping as the year progresses and setting it up nicely for 2017.

Moving on to the cross-border business, cross-border volumes, as you all know, are dependent on global economic conditions and the relative strength of key currencies, most particularly the US dollar. In FY15 we experienced sharp declines in outbound cross-border volume growth due to both these factors in key markets like Canada, Australia, Japan, Brazil, and Russia, starting late in the first quarter and worsening as the year progressed.

Our large US inbound business also declined as the dollar gained strength. And in the fourth quarter Chinese outbound volumes started to soften. Through the first half of FY16, we are not anticipating any meaningful improvement in cross-border growth rates from current levels.

As we enter the second half, comparisons are easier, and if the dollar stays stable or weakens, we could see an up-tick in growth. Net-net, we expect the cross-border business will remain sluggish in the first half, dollar strength and macroeconomic conditions will determine the second half. On balance, we are planning for improved cross-border growth rates in the second half of FY16.

While cross-border growth slowed in FY15, currency volatility hit new highs as the year progressed, serving as a significant offset. Year-over-year growth rates were accentuated by the unusually low levels of volatility experienced in the second half of 2014. Speculation about Fed rate increases in the US, the sharp decline in commodity prices, uncertainty about Chinese growth, Greece, et cetera, all contributed to keep currency markets guessing.

Given the high levels experienced in 2015, it seems very unlikely that volatility will be a tailwind again in 2016. Volatility has moderated in recent weeks and, although uncertainties persist, one might project a reversion to the mean for the year. Given all this, we're assuming that currency volatility will be a headwind throughout FY16, and significantly soar as the year progresses when comparisons get a lot tougher.

Process-transaction growth rates dipped from 10% in the first half to 8% in the second half as we transferred domestic processing to NSPK in Russia. About half of the domestic transactions shifted in Q3 and all domestic transactions in Q4, FY15. This will continue to impact reported transaction growth rates through the first three quarters of FY16. As we enter the second half, US transaction growth rates will rise as we bring on USAA and then Costco volume.

Moving to client incentives. In 2015 client incentives came in at 17.1% of gross revenue, below our expected range of 17.5% to 18.5%. This was due to volume shortfalls in markets like Russia and Brazil, delays in renewals, and some shift to dollars from incentives to gross-price reductions. We anticipate a step-up in client incentives in FY16 based on renewals completed to date and renewals anticipated in 2016, as well as the conversion of USAA and Costco.

Among the significant renewals completed in 2015 were core brands like Southwest and United, Wells Fargo and US Bank in North America, large issuers in Russia, Japan and Latin America. USAA related incentives will kick in mid year and Costco later in the year. In 2016, we also expect several large renewals.

Our current expectation is that client incentives as a percent of gross revenue could climb to the middle of the 17.5% to 18.5% range. The first quarter in particular should see a high level of renewal activity and the largest impact from renewals worldwide. The Q1 incentive rate will likely be at the high end of the full-year range or possibly higher.

With incentives growing faster than gross revenue, net revenue growth will lag gross-revenue growth. In constant dollars we anticipate FY16 net revenue growth in the high single-digit to low double-digit range. Also, based on all the factors I discussed earlier, the first-quarter growth rate will likely be 2 percentage points lower than the full-year growth rate, with growth picking up as the year progresses. As a reminder, our service revenues lapped one quarter from payment volumes, whereas incentives are booked in the quarter in which payment volumes occur.

Which brings us to the currency translation impact from the strengthening dollar. The FY15 impact of exchange rates was a 2.5 percentage point drag on net revenues, higher than we had anticipated at the start of the year. If we look at where the dollar is today and the basket of currencies we are exposed to, the FY16 impact looks to be 3 percentage points. The bulk of this impact is in currencies like the ruble, the real, the Venezuela bolivar, the Argentinian peso, and the Canadian and Aussie dollars.

On the expense front, we will continue to invest in key growth initiatives such as Visa Checkout, Visa Token Service and other strategic programs, as well as our long-term plan to bring key technology and customer-service activities that are currently outsourced, in-house. Network-related expenses will grow due to the full-year impact of fees paid to NSPK for processing transactions in Russia. We will start to lap this added expense in Q4, 2016.

We will have significant start-up costs to set up domestic operations in China. We are actively working on being in a position to compete domestically and will submit our application upon release of the final regulation. We are presuming China startup expenses will ramp through the year.

We are holding the line on cost increases in all overhead functions. In nominal dollars, we expect a step-down in the rate of expense growth in FY16 as a result of all these actions, versus almost 6% growth in FY15. Expense growth will run at a high single-digit clip in the first half and substantially lower in the second half.

Our tax rate in 2015 came in at an adjusted 29.3%, almost 100 basis points lower than expected due to the favorable resolution of some tax items. As always, we have various tax initiatives under way. However, we expect our tax rate to normalize in FY16 back to the low 30%s.

In FY15, the lower than expected tax rate added over 1 percentage point to our EPS growth. In FY16, the anticipated increase in the rate could be as much as a 2 point drag on EPS growth.

Now that we've announced the Visa Europe transaction we can resume our stock buyback. It is fully our intent to step up the pace of buybacks immediately to make up for buybacks not completed in Q4, FY15. Despite this, our weighted-average share count in 2016 will be higher than it would have been had we been buyers of our stock in the Q4 of 2015.

When you put this all together, we expect our constant currency EPS growth in FY16 to come in at the low end of the mid-teens range. Without the expected increase in the tax rate, EPS growth rates would be almost 2 percentage points higher. Furthermore, the currency translation impact will be higher on earnings than it is on revenue.

We project a 4 percentage point drag on EPS growth from exchange rates. This is due to two main reasons. First, a larger proportion of our expenses are dollar denominated; and, second, profits relative to revenues are proportionately higher in some of the higher [risk] currencies.

The first-quarter EPS growth rate will be significantly lower in the mid-single digits for all the reasons I outlined earlier: our net revenue growth rate in Q1, the [track] a couple of percentage points below the full-year run rate, and an expense growth rate that will run meaningfully higher than the full-year run rate. The EPS growth rate will step up as the year progresses except in the FY, Q3 when we lapped the large tax benefit last year.

As you can see, there are a variety of factors that will drive our revenue and EPS growth in FY2016. The key underlying drivers of our business remain very healthy. We expect a step-up in payments volume growth, major new accounts and renewals, good expense control resulting in healthy core revenue and earnings growth in constant dollars despite a generally uneven global economy.

We have several significant factors driving down our reported growth rates in FY16 which should moderate with time. These are: a potential regression to the mean for currency volatilities; the continuing strength of the dollar impacting both the cross-border business and creating a currency translation drag; and a return to normalized tax rates. As the impact of these unfavorable year-over-year comparisons fade, the strong underlying growth momentum of our core business positions us well for robust reported growth in FY17. We remain as bullish as we've ever been about the long-term secular trends in our business.

As always, we will update our views as the year unfolds and share them with you each quarter. This outlook excludes the Visa Europe acquisition. When I come back, I'll walk through the potential financial impact of Visa Europe on FY16.

And with that, I'll turn the call back to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thanks very much, Vasant. I'll try and keep my comments brief so we can move on to Europe. First of all, we're very happy with our performance both in the quarter and 2015. We continue to deliver strong results in a global economic environment which still has more headwinds than tailwinds for us.

Adjusted earnings-per-share growth of 14% in the quarter and 16% for the full year include the continuing negative effects of a series of items, including the translation impact to the strong US dollar, reduced cross-border volume driven by that strong dollar, and continuing drag from lower oil prices. Of course, there are positive offsets including strong payment volume, healthy process transaction growth and high-currency volatility. Our strong results in the face of these pluses and minuses speak to the resilience of our business model.

Regarding what we see across the world, I'll keep it simple and just say that the economic environment has shown little change over the last quarter with some slight deterioration, especially outside of the United States. Having said that, domestic activity is still fairly strong. And while we didn't get much help from an accelerating economic environment, our business still showed continued strong growth.

Our longer-term bullish outlook is intact and, most importantly, the underlying fundamentals of our business continue to deliver. And these will continue to drive continued growth.

We'll discuss capital in much more detail when we review the Europe transaction but I do want to comment on our recent dividend increase. We've discussed our view that the dividend is an important way for us to return capital to our shareholders. We've also said that we would hope to consistently grow the dividend as we grow the earnings of the Company. And the recent 17% increase maintains the payout at our stated target range of the low 20%s. Most importantly, we feel it's a strong statement that we're increasing our dividend at the same time that we're announcing such a significant transaction.

Now let me turn and make some comments about the fundamentals of our business. We continue to strengthen our key-client relationships across the world. In the United States we're in a great position. Over the course of the year we extended some of our biggest relationships which were up for renewal, including our partnership with Wells Fargo, which we renewed just this quarter. We now have partnership agreements in place with five of our top six until at least 2020.

Outside of the US we're also in a very strong position. We continue to expand our relationships with clients around the world. For example, in Australia we signed a new 10-year exclusive partnership with the National Australian Bank.

While we did have some notable losses this year, we also had successes winning significant new business with Costco and USAA. I wanted to make a couple of observations about how we view pricing and share in this context.

First of all, and most importantly, we view the big opportunity for us is to drive growth in the marketplace. And therefore, the most profitable growth is a achieved by electronifying cash and check across the world, expanding participants in the electronic-payments universe, and helping grow commerce more broadly. We believe this is how we create real long-term sustainable value.

If you look at what's driven our revenue growth over the last several years, it's just that. Not taking share from competitors. That's not to say that the market isn't competitive. It is. And as you know, our competitors are very, very good and we respect them.

And since we've been public you've seen clients make long-term partnership decisions, some of which have benefited us, others of which have benefited others. There will be situations where clients seek to do more business with us because of our capabilities, products and brand and we will support them. We'll also defend our share aggressively. We will be competitive with the market but we do not seek to win deals solely on price. We do not view pricing on its own as the best mechanism to grow. So I strongly believe in focusing on long-term value creation and that our future is about growing electronic payments and commerce broadly and ultimately expanding into new or underpenetrated segments.

Now a few comments on the underlying business. Visa Checkout continues to gain momentum. We now have more than 7 million registered users in 16 countries and over 470 financial-institution partners participating globally. More than 250,000 merchants are currently live globally including 10 of the top 50 eCommerce merchants. New merchant partners include Kohl's, Best Buy, Shutterfly, Lands' End, Fanatics and Abercrombie & Fitch, to name a few.

We also announced that we now have built the ability for issuers and merchants to tokenize Visa Checkout transactions. We expect this to begin in early 2016 as merchants and some issuers complete the work required to enable token acceptance. Many issuers are ready now, but given the rapid approach to holiday season we do not expect merchants to enable token acceptance as they head into their year-end annual system freezes.

Second, as you all know, we partnered with Google and Samsung to bring two great new mobile experiences to market. Android Pay and Samsung Pay both launched their solutions in the US in September and in the upcoming months will roll out their programs internationally.

Third, we continue to build out our technology capabilities to deliver differentiated services in the marketplace. In September we launched Visa Integrated Marketing Solutions, a card marketing platform designed to help small- to medium-sized issuers optimize their marketing efforts. It's a service offered by Visa Performance Solutions which provides a range of advisory services to issuers, merchants and acquirers, and is currently available to any Visa issuer in the United States interested in increasing the performance of their Visa consumer credit or debit portfolios. And the platform is expected to expand globally in the coming months.

Last month, CyberSource launched Decision Manager Replay, the industry's first fraud-tuning analytics tool which allows merchants to quickly analyze and adjust their online fraud-management strategies. Merchants can take a batch of recent transactions and run them through the decision-manager system, re-testing for fraud using more or less stringent risk levels. The system can reconfirm which transactions are fraudulent and which ones have been mistakenly flagged for fraud and denied but were in fact valid.

Looking ahead to FY16, let me just share a couple of thoughts following Vasant's. Our guidance for 2016 is reflective of several things. First of all, it excludes the impact of Visa Europe, which will make the second half of our FY more complicated. We will do our best to isolate the impacts for you so you can understand the impacts discretely and evaluate our sustainable performance.

While we cannot predict the future any better than you can, we do have to make assumptions as we plan for the year. We have shared these in a fair amount of detail with you in addition to providing the numerical guidance but at some point you need to make your own determinations. Having said that, there's some things that I want to emphasize from Vasant's remarks.

The effects of the strong dollar will have an increased negative effect on us in 2016 but there will be a point when the dollar stabilizes and we lap this effect. As Vasant said, we are planning for a negative 3 point impact on revenue growth and 4 points on EPS growth in 2016 before we hope to see some improvement.

Cross-border weakness continues but could change quickly you with movements in the dollar and domestic economic growth. And please pay attention to Vasant's comments on timing. While we don't usually get as specific as we've done on this call, we do have some line of sight which would suggest that some of the items Vasant spoke about should impact the early part of the year disproportionately, especially Q1.

Having said that, we always look to our results and ask what has changed about our views on growth beyond the FY. We continue to feel great about our opportunity to drive revenue, earnings and EPS growth for our shareholders. There's more cash to disintermediate than ever and we have more tools than ever to accomplish.

And with that, let me switch gears and talk a bit about the Visa Europe transaction. Today, as you've seen, we announced that we and Visa Europe have entered into a definitive agreement for Visa Inc. to acquire Visa Europe. We're thrilled about the prospect to bring these two companies together and believe the transaction will benefit all involved.

I'll give an overview of the transaction starting on page 3 of the prepared presentation if you want to follow along, and Nicola will add some comments. After that, Vasant will cover the financial aspects in more detail before we take questions on all the topics covered on the call here.

We will acquire Visa Europe for an upfront consideration of EUR16.5 billion consisting of EUR11.5 billion in cash and EUR5 billion in convertible preferred stock. In addition, Visa Europe member owners will potentially receive an earn-out payment of up to EUR4 billion and EUR0.7 billion in interest. This earn-out will be based on the achievement of net revenue targets during the 16 FY quarters following the close, and provides additional upside to both parties if those agreed targets are met. It will be payable following the fourth anniversary of the transaction close.

We plan to issue between $15 billion and $16 billion in senior unsecured debt to finance the transaction and establish a more efficient long-term capital structure. We plan to offset the effect of the issuance of preferred stock with increased stock buybacks, and believe our capital structure will still provide us flexibility to pursue future growth opportunities. And as you know, this is obviously an attractive time to issue debt given the historically low interest rates.

Our initial leverage will be between 1.4 and 1.5 times gross debt to EBITDA, and we target our long-term leverage at between 1.1 and 1.5 times gross debt to EBITDA. Based on discussions held with the rating agencies, we expect to maintain our current investment credit ratings of A-plus and A1.

The transaction has been approved by both Visa Inc. and Visa Europe Boards. It will result from the exercise of the amended-put option and does not require VI or VE shareholder votes. It is subject to customary closing conditions and transaction regulatory approvals, and we expect to close in Q3, FY16.

Moving on to page 4, turning to the transaction rationale behind the transaction. This is obviously strategically important for both of us. We believe the combination will create significant benefits for both European and Visa Inc. clients. They will benefit as we work every day to earn their business, bringing them the full power of our global platform, innovative products and services, as well as our world-class brand.

The transaction will provide European clients with direct access to our investments in technology, differentiated products and services, capital and talent. We'll also prioritize European needs in the allocation of our resources. And we believe we can deliver a stronger set of digital capabilities than would be possible without this combination.

With that, let me turn it over to Nicola for him to add his perspective.

NICOLA HUSS, CEO, VISA EUROPE, VISA INC.: Thank you, Charlie. A few comments from European perspective. The first one is that the time is right. Payments are increasingly global with more and more powerful competition. Scale and investment capacity are also increasingly important. Adding to these dynamics is regulation, which you are all well aware is a key focus for our Company and industry.

We're now seeing the world of payment becoming more global from consumers traveling and shopping across borders to retailers, and of course many of our most important bank issuers and acquirers being more regional or global players. We're also seeing the tech giants and mobile companies launching services in the payment space here in Europe. And the relationship between issuers, acquirers and merchants is changing.

In terms of processing, scale is a critical driver of competitive advantage and becomes even more important in Europe with the mandatory separation of key [main] processing activities. If I look at it from a customer perspective, Visa Inc. commitment to continuing to develop the European market is important for our clients. Representing 26% of total combined payment volumes, Europe will be Visa's second largest region. Our clients are reassured that there will be an empowered [re-general] of fees with strong regional focus, processing in Europe and potential for investment that will be attractive to European members.

From a management perspective now, the focus is on completing the transaction so that we can get on with integration. The signing is an exciting and significant milestone to our uniting the two parts of Visa, but up until completion my message to the team will be that we also need to continue to deliver our strategy and the service that our members and stakeholders value highly. Continuing to deliver puts the business in the best position to benefit from the integration of the two organizations.

Finally, I strongly believe that the uniqueness of this deal lies in the fact that our two Companies already work together and have done so throughout our history. We share our brand, rules and a number of rational practices, further facilitating our union and rationale to come together.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thanks, Nicola. Let me just make a comments about the perspective from Visa Inc. This transaction does create a truly integrated global leader that will allow us to capitalize on strong growth opportunities in a highly attractive region. We also expect it will create substantial value through revenue opportunities and cost efficiencies associated with the transaction from a member-owned association to commercial entity and the opportunity to integrate the two businesses.

We're also confident in our execution capabilities given our experience of transitioning to a commercial model from a member-owned model ourselves. Also remember, as Nicola pointed out, we're merging two entities that have a close working relationship and share many common products and platforms.

Let me make a few comments about our views on this financially. The transaction is financially attractive for both parties with balanced consideration of a mix of cash, stock and earn-out. We expect it to be accretive to our standalone revenue and EPS growth before transition costs beginning in FY17, the first full year of the combination.

The preferred shares offer current VE members continuing ownership stake in the Company and also serves to provide liability protection to our Visa Inc. shareholders in conjunction with the new loss-sharing agreement with key UK banks. The earn-out provides additional upside potential for both parties if net revenue targets are achieved.

We feel very good about the structure of the transaction since the balance consideration encourages VE's current owners and VI to work together to enhance the long-term value of the business to the benefit of all parties. Vasant will go through this in more detail in a few minutes.

I think in the interest of time I will skip page 5, which you can read on your own, which just talks about why we think it's an attractive growth opportunity, as well as page 6, which is this current snapshot of the Visa European business, as well as page 7 and 8, which show you the complexion of the new combined Visa.

Let me move on and talk about page 9 which are our post-acquisition plans. Before I get into the details here, just want to make a comment about our ability to execute. We've done this transition before, as I pointed out, when we created Visa Inc. and have a great deal of experience not just knowledge of what's required.

In addition, as I've already said, we also have people on both sides who worked together for a long time and we'll benefit from those strong relationships. Since his arrival, Nicola has made significant changes to VE which has resulted in an even closer working relationship between our two Companies. He's also made changes to the business which are consistent with the way we would run the Company going forward. He and I spent some time thinking about the integration process and our timeline and approach will put clients first. In short, we know how to do this and we'll pace it properly.

Turning to our integration plans, I want to first recognize the shift in focus that occurs as we transition from a member-owned association to a commercial entity. The nature of our relationships with clients will evolve and we will be working hard to continue to earn their business. We think we've got a fantastic platform from which to do that with innovative and differentiated products and services in addition to our world-class brand.

We also plan to maintain a strong European presence, just as we do in our other regions. We expect to have a local empowered leadership team in Europe led by Nicola, with the European headquarters here in London.

In addition we'll invest in the country resources needed to serve clients effectively. We intend to maintain a data center in Europe and will obviously continue to comply with European data privacy regulations.

Finally, Visa Europe comprises 38 countries and we will ensure that we have country-specific strategies that are responsive to the evolving competitive and regulatory landscape. One of the strategic benefits of the transaction is that we will be able to deliver enhanced digital and mobile capabilities in Europe, so this will be an important focus post close.

Our plan is to provide access to our digital-solutions road map and partners. VE had already announced plans to roll out Visa Checkout and we're already working with them on that in the context of our existing partnership. We can extend to Europe all we're doing to open our technology platform which will enable collaboration and co-development of innovative payments experience.

By combining the two Companies we do expect to get benefits of scale and efficiency, providing access to our infrastructure, products and corporate services to VE. We will fully integrate the VI and VE systems which we expect to take three to four years as we work carefully with our clients to do this properly.

On the pricing side, we believe there is an opportunity to expand yields in Europe as we align the economic model with the value we bring and generally evaluate pricing from the perspective of a commercial enterprise rather than a member-owned association. However, we will be careful to remain competitively priced for our clients.

It's obviously a very competitive environment, and please remember that it wouldn't be intelligent for us to telegraph our specific plans. So, we're not going to talk any more about the specifics about pricing and yields.

And with that, I'll hand it over to Vasant to go through some additional details about the transaction.

VASANT PRABHU: Thank you, Charlie. On slide 10 we outline the financial impact of the acquisition on Visa. Assuming the transaction closes on April 1 next year, 2016 will be a stub year with two quarters of Visa Europe in our numbers. We expect low single-digit percentage point EPS dilution in FY16 before one-time integration costs. There are three reasons for this.

First, we will be issuing preferred shares, which at the time of issue will, on an as-converted basis, amount to approximately 80 million shares of our Class A shares, or 3.3% of shares outstanding. This creates almost $0.025 of EPS dilution each quarter until we buy back an equivalent amount of Class A shares.

We will be stepping up our stock purchases over and above our normal course buybacks to offset this dilutive impact. Our plan is to do this through open-market purchases over six quarters post closing. In other words, we expect to have bought back an amount of our Class A shares equal to the preferred shares issued on an as-converted basis in addition to our normal buybacks by the end of 2017. As you may expect, the dilutive impact of the shares issued to Visa Europe members will be greatest in the second half of 2016 and taper off through 2017.

Second, we expect to issue $15 billion to $16 billion of debt with maturities from 2 to 30 years. We're putting in place a long-term capital structure. The weighted-average cost of this debt could be around 3% to 3.5%, depending on market conditions.

We are working with Visa Europe to prepare the required financial information which will include unaudited pro forma financial statements reflecting the combined entity under US GAAP for FY15. Market conditions permitting, we could be in the market in early December. Interest on the debt is expected to cost us $0.03 per share per quarter. This is $0.03 of dilution in the second quarter of FY16, if we have the debt in place three months before we close.

Third, we're not assuming significant benefits from revenue and cost actions in the second half of 2016. We will have some benefits but they will not be material enough to offset the dilution from the stock and debt issued until 2017 and beyond. As we get to closing, we will refine our estimates and be able to giving you a better sense of the impact on 2016 EPS.

In FY17 both revenue and cost benefits accruing from the acquisition will start to kick in. And the dilutive impact of the share issuance will fade away. It is our current projection that Visa Europe will be accretive in FY17, our first full year as a combined entity. 2017 accretion is expected to be in the low single-digit percentage points range before integration costs.

We will provide non-GAAP numbers that adjust for one-time costs associated with the restructuring of Visa Europe as we integrate it into VISA. We are working on purchase accounting and its associated impact on our financial statements. It is our current expectation that the bulk of the purchase price will be allocated to indefinite-lived intangible assets which will not be amortized.

Other than adjusting for one-time integration costs we do not plan at this point to move to cash EPS reporting. Once again, we will provide more clarity as we get to closing.

We expect the full integration to take until the end of 2020. As Charlie indicated, net revenue yields are expected to expand as we move to market-based pricing over time, depending on client competitive and regulatory factors.

On the cost front, the majority of the savings are derived from the technology integration which requires the most time. As such, technology-driven savings will be largely realized after 2017. We will have savings from organizational integration in 2017 and 2018 but we will also be making immediate investments in deploying our additional initiatives and enhancing our client-service model.

We expect all the revenue and cost synergies from the Visa Europe transformation to be realized by 2020. In 2020, we would expect high single-digit percentage point EPS accretion and Visa Europe operating margins to be comparable to Visa Inc. margins.

In total, we're targeting $200 million in cost savings, or roughly 30% reduction from the current run rate. When we look at the current run rate we exclude the royalty that Visa Europe is currently paying us. This is included in their reported expenses but, as you know, it is not a cost reduction for the combined entity. We also exclude non-cash depreciation, amortization expenses.

While we reduce costs where we can leverage Visa scale we will also be adding costs as we invest to bring our digital capabilities to our European clients, as well as to enhance the service we offer them at the local-market level. As Charlie indicated, we will continue to operate with London as our regional hub, much as we do today in Singapore, Dubai and Miami for our other international regions. We will also retain a data center in the EU.

To fully integrate Visa Europe we will incur $450 million to $500 million in one-time costs over thee to four years. The bulk of these integration costs will be incurred to compete the technology transition. As I mentioned before, we will specifically identify these costs each quarter and update future estimates as needed until the integration is complete.

We will have some one-time cash and non-cash charges coincident with the closing of the transaction. Cash closing costs are estimated at approximately $150 million, which includes stamp duties payable in the UK plus the usual contingent fees paid to bankers, lawyers, et cetera.

Since the put will cease to exist at closing, we expect to reverse the put liability currently on our books, a one-time, non-cash gain of $255 million. Also, under US GAAP, the royalty fee currently paid by Visa Europe is deemed to be below market.

At closing, we have to establish the value we are realizing for implicitly paying Visa Europe to end this arrangement. As a result, we expect to record a $1.5 billion to $2 billion non-cash write-off of the purchase price to reflect the settlement of the existing franchise agreement. Once again, we will have more precise estimates as we get to closing.

Visa Europe operates as a US taxpayer with a 35% tax rate. As you know, Visa's effective tax rate is currently below this. As such, our blended-tax rate will increase modestly post acquisition. As always, we will work on tax planning initiatives to reduce our tax rate over time.

Moving to slide 11, as we've said for many years we will put in place a long-term capital structure coincident with this acquisition. We intend to issue $15 billion to $16 billion in debt with maturities ranging from 2 to 30 years. The size of each tranche will be adjusted based on market conditions.

Our plan is to issue in the US market in US dollars the best execution. Our gross debt-to-EBITDA ratio could rise to 1.5 times immediately post the acquisition. It is our plan to manage our long-term gross debt-to-EBITDA ratio in the 1.1 to 1.5 range. Based on our conversations with the rating agencies, we expect to maintain our current A-plus, A1 ratings at these leverage levels.

Of course, our net debt-to-EBITDA ratios will be significantly lower at all times given the cash we hold for settlement as well as any offshore cash. We could have used offshore cash to fund part of this transaction but have chosen not to do it at this time. Post closing we expect to put in place alternative structures that will allow us to achieve the same goal in the more logical and tax-efficient manner.

As I indicated earlier, we will use proceeds from the debt offering to fund the upfront cash payment to Visa Europe members, as well as to increase stock buybacks through 2017 to offset the preferred stock issued. The capital structure we will have in place will not only be more efficient but will also not restrict our future flexibility to invest in growing our business organically, to fund appropriate M&A, and to maintain our philosophy of returning excess cash to shareholders through dividends and buybacks.

Slide 12 provides a summary of sources and uses of cash. It's important to note that we expect to have approximately EUR2 billion or $2.3 billion of cash on the Visa Europe balance sheet which will transfer over to us at closing. This cash is freely available for settlement or general corporate purposes, as needed.

As I mentioned earlier, post closing we will work on restructuring some of the new entities to put in place mechanisms that will allow us to use excess cash we have offshore more efficiently. In terms of the upfront cash consideration, which is to be paid in euros, we plan to hedge a portion of our euro exposure between now and the close of this transaction.

Moving to slide 13, Visa Europe members can realize a total value of up to EUR21.2 billion at the end of four years. Almost half this value is in the form of the earn-out and preferred shares. The earn-out provides additional upside potential to both parties if agreed net-revenue targets are met cumulatively over 16 quarters post closing.

Preferred shares give Visa Europe members a continuing stake in Visa and the opportunity to benefit from the value we can create in Europe and globally. The preferred shares also provide a funding source for legal fees and litigation settlements if we have them in the future. As we do in the case of the Class B shares, we will adjust conversion ratios to account for any payments made.

There will be two series of preferred stock issued. One to UK and Ireland members, and the second to all other members of Visa Europe who are eligible to receive preferred stock. We will have an additional layer of coverage in the UK under a loss-sharing agreement with 11 of the largest UK members to directly fund settlements for domestic claims after certain levels of losses are paid from the UK and Ireland preferred stock. They will not be any additional indemnities in the UK for domestic claims.

Outside the UK, the second layer of coverage will come from existing indemnities, which will remain in place. This mechanism is designed to fund legal expenses and settlements, if any, related to interchange in the Visa Europe territory. Specifically, potential losses based on domestic and EU rates, up to the value of the preferred shares, are covered 100% by this mechanism, as are 70% of potential losses based on inter-regional rates. In the UK, as necessary, Visa Inc. can rely on additional protection under the LSA for 91% of claims related to domestic interchange.

Slide 14 describes how we expect to account for the earn-out and the preferred shares in our financial statements. The earn-out will be accounted for as contingent consideration. The fair value of the obligation will be recorded as a liability on our balance sheet at closing based on a probability weighted estimate of the payout.

Each quarter, we will mark this liability to market based on the revised view of the probability and size of the payout. This quarterly adjustment will be recorded as non-operating expense or income over the 16 quarter earn-out period post closing. As a reminder, all these amounts will be non-cash until the fourth anniversary post closing.

At this point a cash payment will be made to Visa Europe members up to a maximum of EUR4 billion plus up to an additional EUR700 million of interest depending upon the cumulative net revenue performance of the business over the earn-out period. The preferred shares will be recorded as equity at close based on the value of Class A share equivalents at EUR5 billion, with a small discount to reflect the restrictions around transferability of the shares. If covered litigation payments are made or legal expenses are incurred, the conversion ratio of the preferred shares is reduced with an offset to litigation or professional fee expenses. In addition, we expect to record the two non-cash charges I mentioned earlier.

With that, I'll turn this back to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thank you, Vasant. In summary, we are delighted to be reuniting the Visa family. We believe that we've structured this in a way that creates value for both Visa Europe members, our shareholders, and our clients globally.

Before I turn it over to Jack, first I want to thank both the Visa Europe team and the Visa Europe Board. To the Visa Europe team, congratulations on the great Company you built. Thank you for all that we've done together to this point. And we look forward to being your partner as one combined Company.

And to the Visa Europe Board, thank you for the energy, patience, detailed work and the way in which you focused in a balanced way on delivering both short- and long-term value to your members. We'll work hard and I'm confident this combination will deliver both short- and long-term benefits to your members.

With that, Jack, we'll turn it back to you.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Charlie. Dexter, at this time we're ready to start the Q&A session. And I would like to just ask all of the folks listening today to limit yourself to a single question so as to provide more folks the opportunity to get on the call. Dexter?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Charlie, I heard you loud and clear that you don't want to talk about pricing. But one of the concerns that's been expressed is that banks, once the check clears, want to leave. Obviously you've got the earn-out payment and the preferred. Could you talk about how you thought about that structure in terms of the long-term partnership with the current banks that make up Visa Europe?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. Let me start and Vasant can obviously chime in. Listen, I think as both Vasant and I each talked about, we think the structure very much aligns the interests of us doing what makes sense for Visa Inc., as well as doing the right thing on behalf of the former members. And as I you said, we live in a competitive world. We understand what goes on. But at the same time, we are going to have to transition from a member-owned structure to one which is different than that.

Again, all I can say is that we're very, very conscious of both sides of the dynamics, which is there's opportunity for us as a combined company. But we also have to do it very intelligently and very carefully in a way that our clients understand and at this point probably expect, given all of the conversations directly that we've had with the Board.

OPERATOR: Okay. Our next question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore ISI. Your line is open.

DAVID TOGUT, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thank you and congratulations. Can you give us a sense of how the $200 million in cost saving will layer in approximately between FY17 and FY20?

VASANT PRABHU: Sure. As I said in the comments, in 2017 mostly we will look at the global platform that Visa Inc. has and seek to integrate from an organizational standpoint Visa Europe into Visa Inc. There will be some adjustments in 2017.

But then the bulk of the savings, as I mentioned, really come from harmonizing the two technology platforms. And what we will be doing in 2017 will be working on harmonizing the platforms, and then, as Charlie said, very carefully transitioning over to our new platform. We will run both platforms for a period of time which is where some of these integration costs come in.

Technology-related savings will kick in mostly in 2018 and beyond, with the bulk of them in place by the end of 2019 and into early 2020. The savings pick up over time, and that is factored into the outlook we've given you. We will have accretion next year. When I say next year I mean in FY17. And then we expect that we will be in the high single digit accretion range by the time we're done with all the integration.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me just add to that, just a little bit of color around the reason why the conversion takes the amount of time that it takes. What we're not doing is just taking the existing platform we have and asking all of Visa Europe's clients to convert to that.

The work that we have to do is to go through very carefully and understand what needs to get billed out in the Visa Inc. systems to accommodate everything which is very specific for the European clientele. We then need to go build and then we need to have a conversion plan in place that works on behalf of clients.

VASANT PRABHU: The other thing I would just also mention in case it wasn't entirely clear, we will almost immediately post the closing make investments to bring our digital capabilities to our European clients, like Visa Checkout, as well as make investments to provide a level of service at a local level and enhance what we have today. So there will be investments happening fairly quickly in the process, too.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani of KBW. Your line is open.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: Thank you. Vasant, I heard you say, I think, that Visa Europe and Visa Inc. margins you're assuming will be equal at some point in time. Could you just talk about whether or not there might be some deviation in that? I just figure you might be able to extract more synergies from Visa Europe on a combined platform. Thanks.

VASANT PRABHU: I think what you've got is our best sense of things at this point in time. Obviously as one gets into this and we go into years two and three we'll learn more about all the possibilities in terms of both what we can do on the cost side, what we can do on the revenue side, and so on. I think this is at this point the best point of view we can offer you.

When you adjust for the royalty that Visa Europe is paying us, when you look at the cost savings we can generate, it gives you a sense of where margins can get to from where they are. So, we feel good that by the time we're done with the integration Visa Europe margins should be in the Visa Inc. range.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Don Fandetti of Citigroup. Your line is open.

DONALD FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Shift gears to the core business. Charlie, the cross border business obviously is probably one of the highest margin areas of the Company. It continues to be light even after the quarter. Do you think we've troughed here or is your sense that you could tick a little bit lower?

CHARLIE SCHARF: The easy answer is we really don't know. There's been continuing weakness and the early part of this quarter is slightly below where we were running. But that's a call on, as Vasant talked about in his remarks, the strengthening, the weakening of the dollar and broader economic impact.

I do want to say relative to cross-border, when you think about what we have to offer and what our competitors have to offer, cross-border payments is hugely value added. It's something that will experience the kind of volatility that we've seen, given the impact of the dollar on people's ability to spend, but it doesn't change the long-term value that we provide in cross-border. And we believe that ultimately translates to volume as these things evolve over time and also as we start to lap decreases that we've seen.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of James Schneider of Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

JAMES SCHNEIDER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Charlie or Nicola, could you maybe comment specifically on whether the agreement includes any terms whereby the owners of Visa Europe re-up for a certain length of time and agree to remain at a certain issuance volume level or card level with Visa Inc?

CHARLIE SCHARF: There are agreements in place in Visa Europe that stay intact and we work commercially beyond that. Beyond that, you can look at the structure yourself and see what that provides for.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Darrin Peller of Barclays. Your line is open.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, guys. On the financing side you're bringing on roughly $15 billion to $16 billion unsecured debt versus I think about $12 billion up front needed. Obviously you're using another $5 billion for preferred. I think you said, you've mentioned in the past, you've had about $5 billion plus foreign cash. And I know you mentioned you're not using it now. When you think about all the cash you have there plus $7 billion-plus of free cash flow annually, can you just comment on the increment buyback potential in additional to the $5 billion authorization you mentioned that we could potentially expect to see maybe even above and beyond the preferred?

VASANT PRABHU: As we said earlier, we will borrow more than the cash that is paid out to Visa Europe upfront. We will use that additional cash to step up our pace of buybacks. Our goal is to buy back the equivalent Class A shares to offset the effect of the preferred shares issued over four to six quarters post the closing. So, by the end of 2017.

We will have more flexibility in the use of our offshore cash post the closing. We have a variety of plans that we expect to put in place, and as they fall into place we'll talk to you about it. The goal would be then to have not only have more freedom to move the offshore cash but also to move it efficiently and with minimal friction cost.

I should also make sure you remember that we do keep cash available as a backup for our daily settlement process. Some of that offshore cash today is used for that purpose. So shouldn't assume that all that is excess cash.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Jason Kupferberg of Jefferies. Your line is now open.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Hey, guys, I wanted to get a sense of how much revenue synergy is assumed in the FY17 and the FY20 a accretion projections, and just directionally how much of that might be expected to come from improvement in the net revenue yield versus other general sources of top-line synergy likes cross selling.

VASANT PRABHU: As Charlie said, we don't plan to talk much about specific pricing plans for obvious reasons. But as you work through some of what we told you, clearly when you move from an association model you would expect there to be improvement in net revenue yield. How much, how fast, exactly how, I think we've given ourselves the ability to do it in the way that makes the most sense competitively and otherwise. And there's not a whole lot more about this that we plan to talk about publicly, but you'll see as we go along how things evolve.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of George Mihalos of Cowen. Your line is now open.

GEORGE MIHALOS, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Great. Thanks for taking my question and congrats on the deal, guys. I wanted to start off going back to the core business. How do you guys think about improvements in the net revenue yield given some of the puts and takes around cross border, some large business coming up with Costco and the like, your thoughts about being able to drive that higher over the intermediate term?

VASANT PRABHU: As you saw, we had some pricing last year. We'll get the benefit of that pricing in the first half of FY16 also. Clearly the mix of the business, with growth we have happening outside the you US, which is a higher net revenue yield business, the mix of the business improving in terms of e-commerce and so on helps yields. We'll always look for opportunities where we create value to price for that value. And over the past three or four years you've seen some steady improvements in net revenue yield.

So, as Charlie said, fundamentally we like what we see in our business. The underlying trends of the business remain as good as they've ever been. We have some short-term what we consider to be transient drags on the business on a reported basis from some of the reasons I outlined. And then we have, as you see happening from time to time in this business, we have some big new wins, some big new renewals happening that have some impact in the early years and early quarters of those renewals and wins.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And I would just add to that, first of all, I obviously agree completely with what Vasant said. When we talk about the specifics, the way we're thinking about 2016, they are driven by some very discrete and very specific items that don't continue for the long term in this business, as opposed to what we do believe is the strong underlying growth that you'll see, especially as we get to the latter half of 2016 in the domestic business and then ultimately in the cross-border business. And that's really what positions the core business to continue growing.

But what I really do want to just -- it would be remiss if I didn't point out is, with commerce moving to digital platforms, as we're seeing, we have more ways to involve ourselves in that commerce than ever before. And as we stood here when this Company went public and we talked about what we were going to do to attack all of the cash that was still in society, the things that we're talking about now, especially as it relates to mobile, didn't exist to the extent they do today.

So, as we think about our ability to tackle and take advantage of disintermediating that cash and continue to provide value-added services along side that, that's not in how we're thinking about 2016 or probably 2017. But that's what we come to work every day to try and drive and why we feel so good about the long-term growth that still exists in the business.

OPERATOR: Thank you very much. Our next question comes from the line of Craig Maurer of Autonomous. Your line is now open.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: Hi. Thanks. Considering the strong appearance of under investment in the Visa Europe platform since the recession, I was hoping for an honest assessment of where you see their capability now versus Visa globally. And also if you can discuss the intense regulatory scrutiny that this deal's likely to come under, all things considered. Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me take a shot at the first one and then Vasant you can chime in on the second. On the first one, I personally think it's like a gross overstatement to talk about whatever words, Craig, you used to describe Visa Europe's investment since the recession. My view -- again, I've only been here three years and I'll tell you in the three years that I've been here, it was a year into that or so that Nicola joined, we have been working extremely closely together on leveraging our platform at Visa Inc. to help Visa Europe's clients.

In addition to that -- and I'm speaking for him, but he can certainly chime in, he's sitting right here -- he's been fairly aggressive about coming in and thinking about running the Company the way you would think about running a for-profit Company. And if those things together result in a lower expense base, so be it. That does not mean that they're not investing in the future of the Company. I actually think just the opposite in a lot of what we're seeing. Having said that, even with all that he's been able to do as a standalone business, it's a small portion of what we'll be able to deliver as a combined Company both in terms of efficiencies and additional capabilities.

NICOLA HUSS: That's a very good answer. I don't think I have anything specific to add to that.

VASANT PRABHU: On the regulatory front, obviously we've been in touch with the various authorities. They are aware of what has been under way. We have been in touch with them even as we got to this announcement.

If you look at it from a regulatory standpoint, Visa Europe as part of Visa Inc. now, has access to substantially greater financial resources, which makes it a financially much stronger player. If there's any concern around settlement risk management, the resources available now are vastly bigger. If it comes to concerns about cyber security, et cetera, you now have Visa Inc. and all our capabilities available to Visa Europe on an unfettered basis.

So when you look at all that, we think this makes Visa Europe far more stable and stronger from a regulatory standpoint. We have indicated, as Charlie did, that we will maintain, as we have with all the other Visa businesses, a very large local presence in London, and increase our local presence in many of the other key European markets. And we will continue to have a data center in the European Union and comply with all the regulatory requirements. So we really think that this is a big plus from the standpoint of what regulators care about.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me just add to that for a second. Just to be really specific for a second, when we look at the specific regular regulatory approvals required there's three antitrust control filings which will take place. It's the European Commission, the Turkish competition authority and the Jersey Competition Regulatory Authority. And when we think about what this means for competitive reasons, we're very, very confident that we will get through this process in the time frame that we spoke about.

And then what Vasant is talking about goes beyond regulatory approvals required. It goes to the fact that our combined Company and the way we intend to run it is very consistent with what we believe European regulators want out of this Company.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Tom McCrohan of CLSA. Your line is now open.

TOM MCCROHAN, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, guys. Visa Checkout seems to be a pretty significant initiative here in the United States. I was wondering if you could share with us the conversations, dialogue you're having with the European banks and their willingness to embrace that, as well, in the 38 countries in Europe.

NICOLA HUSS: Nicola speaking. I think we've started the process of talking to our customers about Visa Checkout. And they like the fact that it will be a common approach between what used to be up to now two Visa to different Visa Company. Having said that, once again, we're very early in the process so we'll see how it goes but I see no reason why they shouldn't like it.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me just add because I think this is second nature to Nicola but for the rest of us it's different than the environment we operate in. When decisions like that are made at Visa Europe, they're made with a great deal of effort from the Visa Europe management team. But I would describe it as deep involvement from the Board, which includes some of the most significant and a fairly wide representative group of the clients that exist within Visa Europe. So it's not management on their own making a decision to do something. It's done management with the Board that do in fact represent the existing clients.

NICOLA HUSS: And there was a lot of scrutiny from the Board on this specific topic.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Tien-Tsin Huang of JPMorgan. Your line is open.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you so much. Just want to try and assess how the terms of the earn-out tie with the accretion targets that you set. I heard the revenue targets. How about costs and the timely execution of the synergies of $200 million that you called out? Are they stipulated anywhere? Again, trying to gauge how visible the synergies are on the cost side. Thanks.

VASANT PRABHU: Tien-Tsin, as we disclosed, the earn-out is linked to net revenue targets. So cost is not figured into it. Net revenue we think, as you all know, reflects significantly value created in this business. It's also relatively easy to track. And the whole purpose of the earn-out is that if this business has greater value then both sides benefit from that value.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Smitti Srethapramote of Susquehanna (sic -- "Morgan Stanley"). Your line is open.

SMITTI SRETHAPRAMOTE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: It's Smitti from Morgan Stanley. Charlie, I'm just wondering if you could share more details or give us more of an update on the China opportunity, any more granular details on when you could potentially get a license. And, also, can you share with us some of your early thoughts in terms of how you plan to address the issuing and acquiring side over there.

CHARLIE SCHARF: As far as timing goes, there's really not anything additionally to talk about, otherwise I certainly would have covered it. We cannot submit our application until the final regulations come out. As best we understand, they're actively being worked on within the Chinese government. But again, it's up to the Chinese government, not up to us.

Within our Company, you can imagine that we're not sitting around and waiting for that event. We've got a tremendous amount of work going on inside the Company of people working on both an application, because there are series of models out there for industries which have been opened up to competition. So, we've done a fair amount of work on being prepared for that.

As well as there's a fair line of sight relative to what our operating environment will have to look like within China. So, we've got a team of people working on being in a position to have that in place in the time frame that's outlined in the licensing process. And then we've got our China team working on just what you asked, which is what our strategy is to grow the acquiring side of the business because we've got a very, very big gap between where our cards are accepted and where union pays are in the physical world, as well as the big opportunity that exists in the online space.

And on the issuing side, as I've pointed out many times, we have fairly deep relationships with Chinese banks, as evidenced by the sizable cross-borer business that we have today. So, our domestic plans are a regular part of the conversations we have with the issuers. That's a very long way of saying we've got active plans that we're working through but obviously we can't do anything until we're able to submit our application and then see what the Chinese government decides from there.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Friedman of Susquehanna. Your line is open.

JAMIE FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP: Hi. Thanks. Nicola, in your prepared remarks you had mentioned that the relationship between issuers, acquirers and networks in Europe are changing. I was wondering if you or Charlie could elaborate on that. I know it's an open ended question but your insights would be appreciated.

NICOLA HUSS: I think one of the points that we'll be changing due to regulation is the relationship with the retailers and therefore with the acquirers. And that's the point I was referring to. Once again, this will come from the new regulation that we have, as you know, in Europe and we will see that happening during next summer.

My last comment maybe would be the fact that from a competition perspective this might open a different approach to retailers. That's what I was referring to.

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only thing I would add is, those of you that have been following us for a while have heard us talk about the efforts that we have under way on the merchant side of our business. And we're very hopeful that the solutions, like what we announced with CyberSource this past quarter, will be all applicable within Europe to help build those relationships and ultimately the acquiring side of the business.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Keane of Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes, hi, guys. Just to follow up on that, how do you guys believe the new European regs will impact Visa Europe? Will there be some positives and negatives? And does it come out neutral or do you guys come out more on the positive end or the negative end? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: A couple things. Number one is, relative to the timing of the transaction for us, there's a fair amount of clarity at this point on what the environment looks like. So, as we think about the way we forecasted the impact on our Company as a combined entity, it takes into account what we believe the pluses and minuses are of the regulatory environment. When you look at things like the separation of scheme and processing, where the final regs haven't been released but there's pretty clear direction where things are going, it's like anything else in life, there are potential pluses and potential minuses. And what we've got here is the ability to be very proactive about thinking through how we're going to make it a plus for us. And I think that's as much as I want to say at this point.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Ken Bruce of Merrill Lynch. Your line is now open.

KEN BRUCE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Charlie, I know you're reluctant to project too much here, but you point out the experience that you've had or Visa's had in terms of converting from a bank association. I'm wondering, should we look back to the Visa Inc. transition as being a blueprint or a playbook for how you would approach Visa Europe here? Is that helpful at all for us?

CHARLIE SCHARF: The short answer is, on most things, no, other than what we learned as we went through that in the training that the people at Visa Inc. have had on both sides, on being on the Visa Inc. side, call it the US-based part of the business, as well as the strong contingent of non-US people. We've been through it, know how to do it.

When we talk about our lack of willingness, or whatever words you use to talk about specifics, I actually think we're being pretty clear here. What we're not doing is we're not telling you the specifics of what we intend to do on price. And, again, as I said in my prepared remarks, I hope you understand that's the smart thing for us to do as opposed to lay out exactly what you're going to do. By the way, I can't imagine a company in any industry that would think that's a smart thing to do.

What we've done in lieu of that is we've given you what we think the expense synergies are. We've laid out what we think our capital actions will be. So, you can get to your own point of view on what that means for our share count. And we've given you what we think will happen all in all relative to EPS accretion at different points of the transaction.

So, if you have all that, you should be able to do the revenue number. And behind that is what we believe we'll do overall in pricing. Again, what we're trying to do is be fair and transparent for this transaction because it is a different kind of transaction, starting from a different place in a different environment, both competitively and from a regulatory perspective. So, the case is built specific for this transaction but we're trying to create that balance of being as transparent as we can while not giving away anything competitively.

OPERATOR: Thank you very much. Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Ellis of Bernstein. Your line is now open.

LISA ELLIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hey, guys, taking a step back from the details of the transaction, when you look out to 2020 and beyond, what effect do you think your Visa Europe acquisition as well as the regulatory changes in Europe will have on the underlying secular dynamics in Europe -- meaning adoption of card, adoption of digital, mix of credit and debit. There's some sharp differences between some areas of Europe and much of the rest of the world.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Listen, there are. Broadly speaking, what I'd say is -- and I know you all know this -- but any time there is stronger competition, there's an ability to drive greater results. That means that because we are able to bring the capabilities that we have today, and that we're able to continue to develop based specifically upon the European needs, that will allow us, we believe, to drive deeper penetration than Visa Europe would have been able to do on its own just because of the resource constraints that they had.

As we become stronger here, our competitors will become stronger here, as we've seen in other parts of the world. I know you all spent a lot of time comparing us to our competitors. We do as well because we want to learn and because we compete with them every day.

But the reality is the stronger we each become, the stronger we make the other. And you see that as being evidenced in the swiftness that we move in the marketplace and the types of things that we are doing. If you look at the types of things that we're doing as a company or MasterCard is doing as a company, I don't believe that those things would have been in market if we were continuing on as associations.

So, we do think that we will bring more competition to this market. The competitors will respond knowing that there's more competition. But our belief is there's still a tremendous amount of opportunity to electronify payments in the marketplace and we've got a greater ability to do that as a combined entity.

VASANT PRABHU: The only other thing I would point out is, despite all the troubles that Europe has had economically in the past five years, you've seen from Visa Europe's reported numbers on payment volumes, there's been very healthy payment volume growth through that entire time frame. And there still is a very large opportunity, as Charlie said, in Europe in 38 countries that will now be part of Visa Inc. to disintermediate cash and checks. So, we're very excited about that kind of opportunity that was previously not available to Visa Inc. shareholders.

OPERATOR: Thank you very much. And the last question is coming from Jason Deleeuw of Piper Jaffray. Your line is now open.

JASON DELEEUW, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Yes, thank you. I want to ask a question on Chase pay and the announcement with MCX. Does that agreement change Visa's interaction with Chase or just the general payments transaction at all? And are you hearing from any other large issuers that are now more interested in an arrangement like ChaseNet?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Whatever they've announced doesn't change anything with any contractual agreement that we have with Chase. Whatever they've done with MCX is something that they've done. I would say that, as we've said before, we have very active dialogue with our clients, both here in the US and abroad -- not here, I'm not in the US right now -- but in the US and abroad of what the potential benefits of that structure are and whether that's something they're interested in. And to date there has not been a lot of appetite. Whether that changes or not we'll see.

We are very, very focused on solutions that make it easier for all Visa card holders to pay for things, any way, whether it's physical point of sale or in the digital space. And we will be aggressive in helping all of our clients to compete on that level playing field, every single one of them, regardless of what any one individual issuer does.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Charlie. With that, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your patience today. We know it was a very long call. We thank you all for joining us. On the off chance that anybody actually has more questions, Victoria and I are around all day to take them. Thank you again.

OPERATOR: And that concludes today's conference. Thank you all for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc | pclb : Costco Wholesale Corporation
   IN
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards | iretail : Retail
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151103ebb20018i
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  Visa  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,533 words
   PD
23 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Incorporated's fiscal Q3 2015 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA, INC.: Thanks, Jamie. Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to Visa, Inc.'s fiscal third-quarter earnings conference call. With us today our Charlie Scharf, Visa's CEO, and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's CFO. This call is currently being webcast over the Internet, and is accessible on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 90 days. A PowerPoint deck containing financial and statistical highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could materially differ as the result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on forms 10-K and Q, which can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of our website. For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Reg G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release. With that, I'll turn the call over to Vasant.

VASANT PRABHU, CFO, VISA, INC.: Thank you, Jack. We reported another solid quarter of financial results, with strong revenue and earnings growth against an economic backdrop that continues to be uncertain. Most of our results were in line with our expectations going into the quarter, with a few highlights and exceptions. Let me speak to those first.

First, we recognized a tax benefit of $280 million. When we last talked to you in April, we had estimated that this would be a fiscal fourth quarter event, so this is essentially a change in timing. This resulted in an effective tax rate of 22% in Q3, and shifted $0.12 of EPS into the third quarter from the fourth. Based on this shift, we now expect our tax rate in the fourth quarter to approximate 34%, and for the full year we are now anticipating a rate between 29% and 30%.

Second, revenue growth of 12% on a nominal basis was significantly higher than we anticipated, in spite of continuing foreign exchange rate head winds of approximately 3 points in the quarter. Revenue growth out-performance was driven by sustained high currency volatility that substantially offset the foreign exchange rate head winds, as well as lower client incentive levels than previously presumed.

Third, our expectation for higher client incentive levels in the third quarter did not come to pass, due to lower payment volumes and performance adjustments in specific geographies, as well as the timing and impact of certain issuer deal renewals. Some of these client incentives are shifting to the fourth quarter as these deals are signed. As a result, client incentives will be higher in the fourth quarter, both in dollars and as a percent of gross revenues. Despite this, we now expect client incentives for the full fiscal year at the low end of the 17.5% to 18.5% range.

Finally, we re-valued the Visa Europe put option, taking $110-million, non-cash non-operating expense. The increase in value of this liability was a result of an increase in estimated Visa Europe adjusted sustainable income. As a reminder, US GAAP requires us to estimate the put option liability each quarter.

Moving on to the quarters business drivers and our financial results. Global payments volume growth in constant dollars for the June quarter continue to be solid at 11%, in line with the March quarter. The US grew 9% and international grew 14%. In the June quarter US credit grew 12%, flat compared to the March quarter, as the effects of the Chase conversion begin to wane. US debit grew at 6% in the June quarter, down about 0.5 points compared to the March quarter. Gasoline prices continue to have a significant negative impact, reducing growth in aggregate US payment volumes by approximately 3 percentage points. We continue to see the largest share of these savings going to debt repayment and stronger consumer balance sheets.

International payments volume growth of 14% was powered by China, the Middle East, southeastern Europe, and South Asia. The modest up-tick in growth rates versus last quarter was driven by the initiation of domestic payment volume reporting by a large Chinese bank. More recently through July 21, US payments volume growth was 10%, with US credit 12%, and debit 8%, not materially different from Q3 trends.

Global cross-border volumes registered their third consecutive quarter of 8% constant-dollar growth, though the international component declined 1 point to 9% compared to the March quarter. As has been the case all year, out-bound corridors of Russia, Canada, and Brazil remain challenged. Brazil in particular was hurt both by a weak currency on issuing, and lapping the FIFA World Cup on acquiring. The strong dollar has continued to depress in-bound commerce into the US.

As we look ahead to the fourth quarter, we're monitoring travel into South Korea due to the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome virus, also known as MERS, and the impact on out-bound Chinese travel from the recent equity market correction.

In Venezuela, currency controls have effectively shut down the cross-border business for private banks. The bolivar continues to depreciate, and we have moved to local currency collection. All this will significantly reduced revenues from our Venezuela business for the foreseeable future.

On the positive front, out-bound US spending remains robust, as well as cross-border trends across the rest of Latin America, Asia-Pacific, and the Middle East. Through July 21, cross-border volume on a constant-dollar basis grew 8%, with a US growth rate of 7%, and an international growth rate of 8%.

Transactions processed through our Visa network totaled $18 billion in the fiscal third quarter, an 8% increase over the prior period, but down 3% from the March quarter. The US grew 8%, while international delivered 7% growth.

As most of you know, in Russia we transferred domestic processing to the new national processor NSPK in April. This resulted in an aggregate two-point decline in process transaction growth in the June quarter. We expect this drag on process transaction growth to continue for the next three quarters, approaching almost 3 percentage points each quarter. Through July 21, process transaction growth was 8%, with a US growth rate of 10%, and an international growth rate of 1%. The international growth rate, of course, being impacted by Russia.

Now to financial results. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $3.5 billion, a 12% year-over-year increase, and was driven by solid results across all revenue line items. Strong global payments volume drove service revenue to $1.6 billion, up 9% over the prior year. The quarter also benefited from previously announced pricing actions. Data processing revenue was $1.4 billion, and grew 6% over the prior year's quarter, based on continued strong growth rates in Visa-processed transactions, both in the US and internationally.

While on the subject of data processing revenue, let me call out a dynamic associated with the transition of Russia domestic processing to the NSPK. While we are no longer processing these domestic transactions, we continue to own the issuer-client relationships. For this reason, we will continue to recognize the associated processing revenue in our data processing revenue line. This will be offset by payments to NSPK for the actual processing, which will flow through our network and processing expense line. In short, the revenues stay the same as before, but our expenses will increase.

International transaction revenue grew 21% to $1 billion, as the impact from the previously announced pricing actions and higher currency volatility offset soft cross-border volume growth. As expected, total operating expenses for the quarter were up 11% over the prior year. Higher personnel costs were the key driver, impacted by above-normal employee incentive accruals, tied to better than expected year-to-date performance.

In terms of the fiscal fourth quarter, we still expect net revenue growth to approach double digits, despite continuing foreign exchange rate head winds, and higher client incentives than we had in the third quarter. Expense growth rates will moderate from Q3 levels, with the full-year growth rate coming in as we expected in the mid-single-digit range, which is a couple of points higher than current consensus. For FY15, we now expect to end with double-digit constant-dollar net revenue growth, and mid-teens adjusted EPS growth.

We were active in the market in the quarter, repurchasing a total of $15.5 million shares at an average price of just over $68. Fiscal year to date, we have purchased 44.1 million shares at a price of just under $66 per share for a total of $2.9 billion. We currently have authorization to repurchase up to $2.8 billion of stock.

Finally, some early observations on FY16. As we look ahead, currency volatility could moderate from record levels, reducing the revenue contribution of cross-border transactions. We will lose the benefit of recent conversions, and absorb the full-year impact of large deal renewals happening in the fourth quarter. Also, China start-up costs remain unclear at this time.

On the positive front, we're heartened that despite an uncertain global economic environment, payment volume growth has remained steady and healthy. We hope that as the dollar stabilizes, cross-border growth rates will accelerate. In the US, we will lap the sharp declines in gas prices.

We're working through the details of these and other head winds and tail winds, and how they might impact us next year. As we always do, we will provide a more comprehensive point of view when talk to you again after the fiscal fourth quarter.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA, INC.: Thank you very much, Vasant. Good afternoon to everyone, and thank you all for joining us. Let me start by just reiterating how pleased we are with our quarterly results. As Vasant mentioned, revenue growth of 12% was better than we anticipated, especially given the FX impact of about negative 3 points. Adjusted net income growth was 33%, as our anticipated tax benefit was accelerated to the fiscal third quarter from a previously expected fourth quarter.

Adjusted earnings per share of $0.74, excluding the revaluation of the Visa Europe put option, and including $0.12 from the tax benefit I just mentioned. Payments volume growth of 11% on a constant-dollar basis, the effect of a strong US dollar and lower gasoline prices continued to negatively impact growth by three points. Processed transactions and cross-border volume both grew at 8%.

Overall, our results were especially pleasing given that we continue to see very little change in the overall global economy, with a few exceptions. We are hopeful, but not counting on an improvement in the US economy; but we see very little improvement with the US consumer in our numbers thus far, if any. There are positive signs in employment and housing, and the accumulated savings from lower gas prices should help, but we'll have to wait and see. Internationally, we see continued weakness in Brazil and Russia, but we see strength in southeastern Europe and parts of Asia-Pacific.

I'd like for a second to just address the topic of Visa Europe for a moment. As you may have read in our earnings press release and 10-Q filing, we've updated our language regarding the put option valuation, which Vasant just covered. Separately, we announced that we're in discussions with Visa Europe about a potential business combination. I've said many times that we believe there is compelling logic for both Visa, Inc., and Visa Europe to merge, and is something we would like to pursue. This should not be a surprise to anyone.

We are targeting to resolve these discussions quickly, certainly by the end of October, and we'll provide an update during the fourth quarter earnings call, if not sooner. Given these discussions, we may be restricted from buying back our stock. There's also no assurance that any transaction will ultimately be agreed or implemented. At this time there's really nothing more we can add, and won't comment beyond what I've said here, or disclosed in our 10-Q. Rest assured that when there is an update to be made, we'll do so in a public forum.

Let me move on now and talk about our business, and let me start with our client-related activity, which I feel great about. Starting with our issuing co-brands, we renewed our co-brand credit card partnership with Southwest Airlines in the United States. Visa will continue to be the exclusive payment network for Southwest's terrific co-brand credit card. This renewal is an extension of our 15-year-long standing partnership with Southwest Airlines. It represents one of our largest and fastest-growing co-brand partnerships in the world.

We renewed an important co-brand partnership with Avios, the loyalty program for British Airways and Iberia, a partnership with Visa covering the United States, Canada, Bermuda, and the Caribbean. AAA extended our longstanding 37-year credit card partnership agreement. We also renewed the credit card portfolio for Wyndham Rewards, the loyalty program for Wyndham Hotel Group, the world's largest hotel company based on number of hotels.

Turning to our business internationally, we renewed our strategic credit partnership with Shinhan Card, the largest issuer in Korea, and Lotte, another top-10 issuer in Korea for debit and credit. Softbank SB, Japan's third-largest mobile carrier has partnered with Visa to launch a new pre-paid card offering to their 37 million subscribers. Gazprombank, one of Russia's largest financial institutions, renewed a multi-year debit and credit agreement.

Let me make a couple of comments about China. I don't have very much to add since we last talked about it last quarter, but I want to reiterate a couple of things. We continue to move forward with our work to enter the domestic Chinese payments market, and look forward to growing our investment within China. Our business model, as you all know, is about partnership with banks, retailers, governments, and technology companies. We believe our ability to help them grow will help accelerate broader economic growth within China, both in the cities as well as the rural areas. We continue to view this as a significant and important opportunity, and one which is very long term in nature.

Vasant talked a little bit about Russia. Here we completed the full migration of our domestic transaction processing to the NSPK in accordance with the law. As Vasant said, Visa is now only processing cross-border transactions into and out of Russia.

Our work to transform commerce and build out digital payment platforms to support our clients continues. First on Visa Checkout, we continue to gain momentum. We have over 270 financial institution partners globally. We have over 160,000 merchants who are currently live globally, with over $50 billion in total addressable volume. New merchant partners include US companies such as Under Armour, Taco Bell, Dunkin' Donuts, Williams-Sonoma, Eddie Bauer, Living Social in Canada, and Starbucks in Australia.

To date we have over 5 million registered users, and we have launched Visa Checkout in 16 markets around the world. New markets include China, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Singapore, Brazil, Colombia, the UAE, and South Africa, to name a few. We continue to see great reactions from our merchant clients, and have launched several new global marketing campaigns, including with Dunkin' Donuts, Zulily, and Fandango in the US; and Cineplex theaters and Indigo Books and Music in Canada.

Second, we continue to expand the Visa token service. More than 2,300 financial institutions and banking partners are participating. In addition, Apple Pay in the US and Google globally. International expansion of our token service will begin later in the fall within our US, Canada, and Asia-Pacific regions, and allows us to begin tokenizing Visa Checkout.

Third, we continue to build out our capabilities to support our merchant partners. We are partnering with Verifone in a way that enables merchants to offer their customers a more streamlined secured purchase experience across digital and face-to-face commerce environments. Verifone will connect its point-of-sale gateway to Visa's CyberSource global merchant payment management platform, providing merchants with a single platform to protect customer payment data, mitigate fraud, and integrate digital and off-line payment systems.

Last, but equally important, is payment security. Obviously, this is an area which is evolving, and for us we're doing everything we can to differentiate ourself through innovation. Given the current cyber-threat landscape, especially facing merchants, we're committed to developing solutions to help the industry better detect and respond to data breaches.

We announced a partnership with FireEye to bring the first of its kind cyber-security capabilities to the payments industry, and extend our combined expertise and intelligence to acquirers, merchants, and issuers of all size. The Visa and FireEye community threat intelligence system will bring together threat information from both companies, allowing merchants and Visa clients to easily access our leading knowledge of cyber-attack data to quickly detect and respond to the attacks. These new solutions will focus on minimizing risks and vulnerabilities, and detecting and responding to breaches faster.

On a final note, regarding FIFA and football, for our investors, but also our clients and all of our partners. We view the stewardship of our Company, our brand, and our clients with the utmost importance, and try to hold ourselves to the highest standards. We seek to partner with those who think and act like us. I don't believe that FIFA is living up to these standards. Furthermore, their subsequent responses, in my opinion, are wholly inadequate, and continue to show lack of awareness of the seriousness of the changes which are needed.

To this end, we believe two things need to happen to ensure credible reform. First, an independent third-party commission, led by one or more impartial leaders is critical to formulate reforms. Second, we believe no meaningful progress can be made under FIFA's existing leadership. Football itself is a great sport for which we are proud to be associated, and we want to be proud to be associated with FIFA, and hope and look forward to working with them to that end.

To close, I just want to reiterate that we are pleased with our financial performance to date. Although we will provide full-year 2016 metrics next quarter, we feel good about our business, our performance, and our innovation initiatives, which should drive our success in the future. As a reminder, we have nothing incremental to say about our discussions with Visa Europe. With that, Vasant and I are ready to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question from David Togut, Evercore ISI. Sir, your line is now open.

DAVID TOGUT, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thank you, good afternoon.

CHARLIE SCHARF: How are you?

DAVID TOGUT: Very good, thanks. Could you talk about your strategic options in Europe in the event that you don't consummate an agreement with Visa Europe. In particular, have you looked at possibly acquiring some of the domestic payment networks in Europe?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Listen, we have and I have talked about this broadly, as well. We have a terrific relationship with Visa Europe today. We have been operating in the fashion that we have been operating now since we have gone public. We work closely together on a day in and day out basis. They have responsibility for the business and the brand in Europe, and we do everything we can to enable them, and vice versa. That's the relationship that we would see continuing if these conversations didn't move forward.

DAVID TOGUT: Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Jamie, next question.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Chris Brendler with Stifel.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks, good evening. Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to talk about the strong growth in cross-border revenue this quarter -- how sustainable that is, and whether or not you see additional opportunities for pricing down the road? Thanks.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes we had, as you saw, good growth in cross-border. It's a few things. We talked about the geographies that are doing well, and some -- we were helped on cross-border revenue growth by two other things, as you know, pricing and also by currency volatility, so we got spread revenues that flow through that line.

As we look ahead, I think if the dollar starts to moderate, a big chunk of our business is somewhat depressed right now, which is the commerce into the US. Several corridors are soft, like Brazil, which was hurt in a couple of different ways, Russia, et cetera. There is hope as we go into next year that with some of those things now lapping and the dollar hopefully stabilizing, that things could ramp up in terms of volume. On the other hand, volatilities may go back to more normal levels and would reduce that line. A couple of different trends there, but all in all we feel good about it.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Excellent, fantastic result. Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Jamie.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Smitti S., Morgan Stanley.

SMITTI SRETHAPRAMOTE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I know it's early days so far, but I was wondering if you could share with us qualitatively if the transactions that you're seeing taking place on Apple Pay and other mobile payment to go systems starting to take share away from cash transactions from consumers who use it, or is it mainly just a basic substitution of classic for mobile at the moment.

CHARLIE SCHARF: I honestly don't think we have enough real data yet to talk intelligently about it. All I can talk about is my own experience, which is I've been using it for both. When we have more acceptance, and we start to see more transactions, we'll have a much better feel and we'll make sure we share that.

SMITTI SRETHAPRAMOTE: Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Jamie?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Lisa Ellis. Your line is now open.

LISA ELLIS, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hi, guys. Can you talk a little bit about your competitive strategy against PayPal now that they are independent, and to what degree you view them as a competitor, and what sort of specific competitive initiatives you have in place?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. I've talked about our relationship with PayPal in the past. I'm not sure it changes very dramatically, whether they're owned as part of a broader company or if they're independent. Something like half the transactions that go through eBay wallets are on general purpose cards, of which we are roughly half. That's important. But they also have a very big business that they then use our transactions to mine from, to disintermediate our clients' relationship with us, and the client's relationship with our clients, ultimately which are their banks. That's something which is -- which has to evolve, and is not something that we think is sustainable for the long term.

Our view is when we think about what we have got to do in the market place, we actually don't spend a lot of time thinking about what PayPal is doing or what we're doing any more or less than we look at all the interesting people -- things that people are doing in the world of digital commerce. What we're focused on is the fact that we're lucky enough to have a platform and have a client base where we're the leader in the payments business globally.

Commerce is moving to digital platforms. Forget about all of our competitors or people who want to compete with us. We're doing everything that we can to ensure that we're going to be as successful in the world of digital commerce as we have been face to face. To that end, you see our solutions in the market place such as Visa Checkout, which I obviously covered here and I've talked about elsewhere.

But it also relates to all the other mobile solutions and digital solutions that you've heard us talk about, everything from our token service to the digital enablement program, as well as even more broadly opening up APIs and access, and allowing others to access our services in a way that inserts us as the payments network into experiences that people are building. That's what we're focused on, and it's very much focused on the opportunity that exists in the world, and not any one individual company out there.

LISA ELLIS: Terrific, thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bob Napoli, William Blair. Your line is now open.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Thank you. I know you said nothing on Visa Europe, but maybe this is something you could answer. When you did change the valuation on the put option, can you tell us what you're looking at, like what information you're looking at to change that? Then I know there was a formula out there -- a put call for buying it. Is that -- if a transaction happens, would it be under that previous contract formula?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, I'll talk about how we go about the put valuation. In general, I think we're not commenting anything on the transaction discussions themselves, but we do have to revalue the put every quarter, and it has to be done on the basis of updated information, the most up to date information we have. Based on that -- we did that again this quarter -- and as a result of that we came up with a value that is reflected in our Q. And that is a formula that we have used, I believe, for the entire eight years that the put has been in place. And it relates to making estimates of what sustainable net income would be and then there's a multiple applied to that, all of which is described in some detail.

When you run through that based on the information -- the best information we now have to estimate sustainable net income for Visa Europe, and you look at the multiples you have to apply, methodology being exactly the same as what we've used before, you get to the value we laid out in our 10-Q. That's pretty much all there is to it. There really isn't anything different than we've done before.

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only thing that I would add to that is that -- as I referenced, we spend a lot of time with Visa Europe because we're connected at the hip. It's very clear that with their change in leadership over the last year and a half, they have moved to a more commercial model, and increased what they would view as the economic that they are providing for their clients. That translates through to this view of sustainable income that we've been able to observe that Vasant just referenced.

JACK CARSKY: Jamie, next question?

OPERATOR: Craig from Autonomous, your line is now open.

JACK CARSKY: Craig, are you there?

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: I'm here. Can you hear me?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Hi, Craig. We got you. How are you?

CRAIG MAURER: Okay. I have a question on commercial card. We've been seeing weakening trends across several issuers, including AMEX and USB. I was hoping that you could comment on what you're seeing in that segment?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, in general we had a good quarter on the commercial card. Volume growth in the US for commercial payments -- volume is 10% in the June quarter. It continues to perform well. We renewed several multi-year US and Canadian clients. There's a lot of interest from non-financial institution participants who want to provide value-added services within the payments and commercial payments industry. These would be things like technology providers or health care entities and B2B programs, entertainment verticals, and so on. All in all, we feel pretty good.

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only thing I would add to it is that when we look at the detail behind the numbers, you actually do see a fair amount of divergence based on the type of clients that you have. Clients that are focused on the oil industry, and it's a long list of them, you do see fairly significant weakness, which is to be expected. On a portfolio basis, there are other types of businesses that are performing much better. Overall, we do get here in the US that 10% number, but a lot more differentiation than at least we've seen recently.

CRAIG MAURER: Is virtual card starting to play a big role in commercial payments?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Honestly, it's still very small, but obviously something we're focused on and growing.

CRAIG MAURER: Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Jamie?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW. Your line is now open.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: Philosophically, I was wondering if you could rehash, Charlie, how you would think about a large M&A transaction and the criteria you would use to assess its value, and go forward with the deal? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. What we've said consistently is first of all we would start with our first preference would be to grow organically. We've got amazing assets and we've got amazing people here that have built great things without having to rely a lot on acquisitions. That really -- and it genuinely is our first and foremost way that we want to go about building things. Having said that, there are certainly times when it makes sense to buy things. I always like to point back to the three things that we've done so far as the type of things that we think could continue to make sense.

CyberSource was the most significant acquisition that we've done in the payment space, and we're not looking to get outside the payment space. Things that we do want to strengthen the benefits that our clients get of running transactions over our core network. CyberSource allowed us to broaden the capabilities that we had in the online space. In the core of the business, but made tremendous sense for us.

We then bought a Company called PlaySpan, which at the core of what we from PlaySpan was technology and people. Those people and that technology is what built and powers Visa Checkout today. It wasn't for the rest of the business at PlaySpan; the rest of it was actually very small. Then the Fundamo business, which got us far more engaged and understanding, and brought us some capabilities in the mobile payment space in the emerging markets.

As we look at the type of transactions that we're looking at, what we've said is Europe is a big one that could be on our radar screen because that put exists, and because of this compelling logic. Beyond that we're mostly focused on smaller things that again would add to the capabilities of the existing network that we have.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Is there a specific financial criteria that you would look at?

CHARLIE SCHARF: No, I think every one of these deals is different. Take the deals that I just described. You evaluate them differently, including what it would cost you to go build something versus acquiring it, and how much time it would take to get to market, and what that would be.

I did not talk about a fourth company because it's small, but very important that we just acquired called TrialPay, which inserts us into the merchant to merchant offers business. We bought that because we thought it was important to get in the market sooner, and the time it would take to build it would be much longer than that. Each one of these I think would have a very different rationale, and if it was a big enough transaction that we would talk about the economics, we know we would have to have compelling logic, both strategically and financially for you all.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Darrin Peller, Barclays.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: (no audio) -- straightforward. One question. It looks like -- I think we saw a shelf was filed. Whether or not something happens with Visa Europe, can you remind us again how you think about balance-sheet flexibility or debt leverage possibilities? Really, just in terms of capital structure and use of cash, I think you mentioned there could be restrictions on buy-backs. Is that included in your guidance for the year? Thanks, guys.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, in terms of a Visa Europe transaction -- if it happens, should it happen, when it happens -- we've always said that we would be viewing that transaction as an opportunity to do two things at one time. Clearly, it's a great transaction in terms of reuniting the Visa family; but beyond that we would also use that as the trigger to put in place a long-term capital structure. I don't think our views on that have changed much. In terms of the second question, Jack, there was another question on that one?

DARRIN PELLER: It was around buy-backs, and whether or not --

VASANT PRABHU: Oh, on buy-backs, yes. As you know, there are certain rules under which companies can and cannot buy back stock depending on the information that is either available or not, and how material it is, and all that. It is our sense at this point that we might not be able to buy back stock in the quarter, but things can change.

DARRIN PELLER: Is that in your guidance already?

VASANT PRABHU: In terms of its impact on our guidance, if we end up not buying back stock for the entire quarter that's what happens. It will have some modest impact on this year. It will certainly have some impact on next year, depending on whether we catch up later on and so on. There's a fair number of variables there. It depends on how long we're not buying, and how fast we catch up, all those kinds of things.

CHARLIE SCHARF: For one quarter it's not that significant.

DARRIN PELLER: For one quarter, as you can run the numbers yourselves, it won't be that significant. But it is certainly different than what we might have expected when we last talked to you. You should definitely factor that in. All right. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Dan Perlin, RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

DANIEL PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I want to revisit a comment you made earlier about -- let's just say competitors who use your information to mine data to ultimately change behavior away from your bank partners. I'm wondering would they operating rules that you set forth in VDEP be a means with which to preclude that practice from happening?

CHARLIE SCHARF: In VDEP -- VDEP does address the usage of our clients' data. The answer to the question is absolutely. I think the reality is we sit between a series of people that participate in payment systems. It used to be just the issuers and the acquirers and the merchants. Now there are additional parties being introduced to that. We do think it is our responsibility to all of our clients to ensure that data is being used appropriately and the way they want. That's two ways. Whether it's issuer data that passes over our network, the issuer should be comfortable with. If it's merchant data that happens to pass over our network, the same is true there. VDEP is one means, but it's a broader concept that we do take very seriously.

DANIEL PERLIN: Okay, thank you.

CHARLIE SCHARF: I just want to clarify, if I wasn't clear earlier, that when we talked about our full-year mid-teens, that does envision the possibility that we might not be buyers of our stock in the fourth quarter.

JACK CARSKY: Jamie, next question?

OPERATOR: Our next questions comes from Jason from Jefferies. Your line is now open.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks, guys. Just a clarification and a question. Clarification is just on the revenue guidance for the year. Is there any minor tweak up here at all? I know you're still saying low double digits, but I think you had been saying the low end of low double digits previously. I'm not sure if I heard that same language on today's call. Or is the only change in the revenue outlook just the extra half point of currency headwind?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, we were rounding down to 2% last quarter. We're rounding up to 2.5%. The currency effect, as you know, has been growing through the year. I think the only thing we would say is the third quarter came in clearly better than we expected, because currency volatilities were higher. The incentive piece moved some into the fourth quarter. I think, as we said earlier, incentive levels both in dollar and rate terms, percent terms, will be higher in the fourth quarter. We said last time that we would expect revenue to approach double digits in the fourth quarter, and that is still our best estimate for the fourth quarter.

JASON KUPFERBERG: Okay. Then just a clarification is on the incentive adjustments in certain geographies that I think you mentioned is one of the reasons why the incentive line came in lower than expected. What exactly was that? Did some issuers have to pay back some incentives to Visa?

VASANT PRABHU: No, it's a couple of situations which varies depending on the geography. Volumes don't come in as expected, so they don't earn the incentives that we or they might have expected, so it hits you both on the gross revenue line and the net revenue line and on the incentive line. Then in a particular few situations there are unique things in contracts that are resolved within the quarter.

CHARLIE SCHARF: It's also just flat-out timing of when things get signed. Remember, when we -- that's a little bit of -- I like to talk about this internally. We have to do budgets and we give you guidance. But we really don't know as we look out in the future what the timing of our clients are going to be, and how different negotiations will actually take place. When we come to an agreement with a client, it then needs to be documented. The processes and the timing is usually driven by them. Very often they need to go through their own approvals. It's very easy for these things to slip by weeks or even a month, if not more, depending on how far out we're looking. That's a very natural thing that happens, which is hard for us to predict and hard for us to control.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, and this quarter we had a few of those -- a few international banks that moved into the fourth quarter, and will get done in the fourth quarter. That's the timing issue.

JASON KUPFERBERG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bryan Keane from Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. Vasant, I just wanted to ask -- can you help us quantify the impact price changes had on the quarter, and maybe what percentage of the price changes have showed up in the third, and do we expect the full impact in the fourth?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, as we told you last time, there will be some modest additional impact in the fourth quarter. One of the price changes was coming in with a little bit of a lag, so there will be a modest -- it's a small up-tick in price impact. But yes, I don't think we specifically quantified the price impact in total; but it hits two lines, the service revenue line and the international line. It's those two prices increases we took -- just to remind everybody, it's the increase in the US acquirer service fee on all credit products, which went up by 2 basis points, and the international service assessment fee, which increased 40 bps for transactions in US dollars and 80 for transactions not in US dollars. There will be a little more impact in the fourth quarter than there was in the third.

BRYAN KEANE: Okay, helpful. One quick one. Will the intangibles associated if there is an acquisition of Visa Europe will be amortized, or will it be long-lived?

VASANT PRABHU: Well, that is getting very far ahead of things right now. If there is a transaction, if and when, and once the details are clear, we can talk about all that.

BRYAN KEANE: All right, super. Thanks, guys.

JACK CARSKY: Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Glenn Greene from Oppenheimer. Your line is now open.

GLENN GREENE, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thank you. I just wanted to go back to the incentives conversation. Obviously it was lower than I think most of us thought in the quarter, and it sounded like it was timing. Does some of that timing bleed into next year? I don't know, Vasant, if you're trying to call out that incentives as a percentage of gross revenue increase going into FY16? Just to clarify, did you have incentives meaningful for Costco, or does that happen when the volumes come on?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, I think it's too early to give you any particular point of view on 2016. We'll do that when we talk to you in October. We'll also talk about Costco and its impact on 2016 and so on. As it stands today, the incentives -- the deals we were thinking we would get done this year are still -- still look like they're going to get done this year. We'll probably see the full-year impact of them next year, but it doesn't seem like any of them are moving into next year at this point.

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only thing I would add is on Costco for a second is Costco is Costco -- the impact to us of Costco is next year for us fiscally. Whether it's incentives, whether it's volume, revenue associated with it, that's when you'll see the impact of Costco. The other thing I would add is, because we've -- those of you that have been covering us for a long time know this, we do view our incentives going up as a good thing. Incentives go up when we're driving more business through the system. That wouldn't be a surprise to us.

GLENN GREENE: Okay, great. Thanks for the clarification.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Jamie?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Kevin from Macquarie. Your line is now open.

KEVIN MCVEIGH, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Great, thank you. I wonder, is there any type of sensitivity to think about relative to the FX volatility, in terms of a certain band of volatility, how it impacts the revenue? Obviously, you've seen a nice pick-up. Not to get 2016 specific, but any band in terms of how it impacts that revenue?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, there's two dimensions here. In this quarter you probably saw both dimensions at play. One, I believe there's publicly available information on currency volatilities and different metrics you can look at, so at least you can get a relative sense of how currency volatility is doing versus last year or prior quarter, or on a multi-year basis and so on, and it's been high.

The other thing that also had an impact on this quarter was the year-over-year comparison. This was a quarter where not only were volatilities high in this quarter this year, but they were unusually low, or lower than they've been recently in the third quarter of last year. We benefited from both things, when you look at a year-over-year comparison. But you can look at external data to track some of this.

KEVIN MCVEIGH: Great.

JACK CARSKY: Next question?

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Ken Bruce of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line is now open.

KEN BRUCE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good evening. My question relates to the co-brand partnerships and just general issuing partnerships. It really is independent of any one. But I guess if you could step back and look at there's been a lot of discussion about the increasing competitiveness on some of these deals. I'm hoping you might be willing to share some observations from your position at the table as to how the balance of power, if you will, is shifting -- if there's any clear direction of who's capturing more of the economics, or just how things have evolved over the last couple of years?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. Listen, I think it's a -- co-brands are certainly a very competitive part of the business, especially here in the United States. We've been lucky enough to have a significant number of the large and successful ones. When you're the big incumbent and they come up for renewal, they're always on your mind, and you're very tuned to what's going on in the competitive environment.

Just as we talk about on the issuer side, people ask about well, is the issuer side getting more competitive in terms of the way networks think about it? I think the reality is since we've gone public, there's been an extraordinary amount of competition between us and our competitors on these deals. You see that competition embedded in the numbers that we've all been printing for years now. The answer is yes, you see it in the co-brand space. But I also think that the co-brand business and the issuing side of the business, there has been more concentration that has developed.

The other thing, which I think is becoming quite important now, is with the evolving nature of payments and things that are going on, whether it's issuers or co-brands, I think what we wind up seeing is that our clients are making very significant strategic decisions at this point relative to who they want their payments partner to be.

They're not talking about this as a commodity. They're not talking about just network services is something you need to look at in terms of just what the price is. They're sitting there saying payments is an important part of my business, whether I'm a co-brand partner, because these are my most important clients; or on the issuing side, where they say payments is core to what I do. I need someone that's going to help me navigate and be successful in this brave new world of digital commerce and evolving payments that we live in, and I need to pick the very best partner to do that.

We're thrilled with the success that we've had -- not just with Costco, but Southwest as you've seen, is a terrific partner, and other conversations that we have ongoing. The answer is yes, financially they are competitive. Again, we've seen that. That's to be expected. But there are two parts to the conversation.

KEN BRUCE: Great, thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Jamie?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from James Schneider from Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.

JAMES SCHNEIDER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good afternoon, and thanks for taking my question. Charlie, I was wondering if you could give us any more color on China in terms of -- and understanding that it's still early days and you have limited visibility -- but do you have any sense in terms of the restrictions you might be subject to when you do eventually enter that market? If not, can you give us any kind of road map for when you expect to see greater clarity on those rules?

CHARLIE SCHARF: On the first piece the answer is no. What has been published is helpful relative to what we need to do in order to do the work to apply for licenses to start establishing the functions that have to reside in China. Those have been very helpful. Relative to how regulations evolve, and what the actual business would look like in China, that's a ways off. We do not have a tremendous amount of clarity on that yet. I'm sorry, what was the second part of the question?

JAMES SCHNEIDER: The timing for when you get more clarity?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I don't know. No one knows. We live here in the United States and we know our own system quite well, and we never know what timing looks like in this country. Listen, I think they -- the Chinese government has been -- the state council issued its decision. They've come out with some more information, which is certainly helpful. We -- at this point we've got -- we have plenty of information to do the work that we need to do to be in a position to apply for a license and to do the work. Honestly, that's what we're focused on. There's a lot of work for us to do, both to make the application, but also be in a position to be able to operate, if we're lucky enough to be issued one of those licenses. That's what we're focused on.

As I've said, when we talk about this being a long-term opportunity, it's for some of these reasons you point out. We don't know exactly what the regulatory climate will ultimately be. We don't know exactly the role we will play until we actually get there. But we do believe that there is great value for all the participants in the market place for us to be helpful. We feel very good about what we can do in the country, and what it means for us in the long-term. But again, it will likely be long term and not short term.

JAMES SCHNEIDER: Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, Jamie?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mr. Huang from JPMorgan. Your line is now open.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks. Good quarter here. I want to ask on the delta from your reported 12% revenue growth and the 6% to 7% you expected. Can you break it down for us by component what each driver was, in terms of how big it was? I heard FX volatility, lower incentives. Did pricing stick maybe better than expected -- things like that?

VASANT PRABHU: No, I would say you got them. Volatility is -- normally going into a quarter we don't assume that volatilities will stay at the high levels they were last quarter. We assume things may have settled down a bit, which they actually might in the fourth quarter, given things are settling down in Greece, and settling down in China and places like that. It was the spread revenues from volatility. It was somewhat lower incentives. It was offset by exchange rates. You've got all the factors. The pricing didn't have an impact relative to what our expectations were. It was as we expected. I think you've said it.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay. Vasant, did you size the FX volatility and how big that was? Also separately on OpEx, were there any one timers that drove up the OpEx, or was that really just personnel? Thanks for taking the questions.

VASANT PRABHU: Yes on the OpEx, as we said, the year is progressing better than we might have expected, so we made some adjustments as we normally do this time of the year. Accruals for incentive compensation, that would probably be the single-biggest item that shows up in the expense growth. Other than that, the only thing I said in my comments was that we had exchange rate impacts of up to 3 points. Fortunately, the currency volatilities here are levels that offset a significant portion of that.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Offset. Okay, bulk of that. Got it. Thanks so much.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Jamie, at this point we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: All right. Our last question will be coming from David from Buckingham Research. Your line is now open.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Thanks. I have a two-part question. Is there any update on the EU's efforts to regulate in-bound cross-border fees?

CHARLIE SCHARF: There's no update.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: Okay.

JACK CARSKY: Part two?

DAVID HOCHSTIM: Yes. If you could just expand on what you said about US credit payments volume growth, and how much of the deceleration was Chase-conversion related, and what you're seeing in the way of discretionary spending relative to last quarter?

VASANT PRABHU: Really no change whatsoever in terms of what we are seeing. There's a big impact on debit from the gas pricing, because I think three to one people use debit cards rather than credit cards. Yes, the Chase conversion will continue to moderate, and will mostly be gone, I think, after the next quarter or so. That will mean that our credit payment volumes will reflect whatever the gas impact is. The gas impact will also begin to moderate as we lap it. But in terms of how people are deploying their savings from gas, there really hasn't been any change. I think Charlie referred to that in his comments. The US consumer remains okay, not great.

JACK CARSKY: Well, thank you all very much for joining us today. If anybody has any follow-up, feel free to call Investor Relations. Thanks, again.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thanks, everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference. All participants may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc | pclb : Costco Wholesale Corporation
   IN
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards | iretail : Retail
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150724eb7n00899
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  Visa  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,427 words
   PD
30 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Incorporated's fiscal 2Q 2015 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Today's conference is being recorded. If you have an objection you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC: Thanks, Shania. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa Inc' s fiscal second quarter earnings conference call. With us today are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer; and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the internet, and is accessible on the investor relations section of our website, at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing financial and statistical highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could materially differ as the result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available on our most recent reports on forms 10-K and -Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC, are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release.

And with that I will now turn the call over to Vasant.

VASANT PRABHU, CFO, VISA INC: Thank you, Jack.

In keeping with prior practice let me begin my remarks by highlighting some key call-outs from the quarter. First, we reported a solid quarter of financial results despite a backdrop of continued domestic and international economic cross currents. Importantly, revenue growth of 8% was a couple of percentage points better than we had expected and telegraphed last quarter.

The up side was driven by lower incentive levels than previously assumed, and a higher currency volatility benefit. Our flat EPS growth for the period year-over-year was a direct result of the favorable tax impact we enjoyed in the second quarter of FY14.

Second, the overall strengthening of the dollar continued to exert pressure on revenue growth. Exchange rate headwinds this quarter reduced reported revenue growth by approximately two and a half percentage points. We expect dollar strengthening, and its associated impacts, to continue for the balance of the year.

Third, for the second consecutive quarter, our client incentive rate came in below expectations. This was once again due to the timing of certain contractual obligations, as well as moderately lower payouts associated with lower payment volumes in several challenged geographies like Russia and Brazil. We expect line incentives to be higher in the second half of the year.

Fourth, our effective tax rate was 32% in the second quarter, 10 points higher than Q2 last year, when we recorded an IRS section 199 tax benefit related to multiple years. Our tax rate will fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter this year, as I will discuss later.

Overall, the underlying drivers of our business remain stable and healthy, as evidenced by payment volumes and transactions growth. However, the strong dollar impacts us negatively this year not only on currency translation, but also in our cross-border business. Despite these headwinds, we are maintaining our outlook for the year in line with guidance previously provided. There are, however, some significant shifts from quarter-to-quarter, which we want to make sure are clear to you all.

First, on the revenue front, after a better than expected second quarter, we now project the third quarter to represent the low point of growth for the year at 6% to 7% on a nominal basis. Growth will pick up again and approach double digits in Q4.

The third quarter is expected to be negatively impacted by higher client incentives, some are shifting from the second quarter, the continuing drag from lower gasoline prices, and tougher comparisons in the other revenue line, which benefited last year from revenues associated with our FIFA World Cup sponsorship. The full benefit of price increases and the smaller incentive drag due in part to the lapping of a deal intensive quarter in FY14 will help Q4 revenue growth.

Second on the expense front, we expect a meaningful step-up in expense growth in the third quarter, as a number of programs including marketing and certain technology initiatives have been phased to the back half of the year. As always, we will continue to carefully monitor the economic backdrop, and can and will make expense adjustments as necessary. Our full year expense growth expectations remain unchanged at this time.

Third, we expect a higher tax rate in the third quarter, followed by a substantially lower tax rate in the fourth quarter. Our estimated tax rate in the third quarter is expected to be as much as 200 basis points higher than the rate in the second quarter. However, as currently anticipated, we expect to take advantage of certain tax benefits as early as the fiscal fourth quarter, which would drive an effective tax rate in the low 20%'s in Q4, and no change to our full year fiscal tax rate expectation of the low 30%'s.

When you put this all together, we are now looking at third quarter fully diluted EPS being $0.06 to $0.08 lower than analyst's current expectations. For the year, we now expect our fully diluted earnings per share growth to be at the low end of the mid-teens range, in line with current analyst expectations.

Moving on to second quarter business drivers and our financial results, I will start with global payments volume and process transaction trends. Global payments volume growth for the March quarter in constant dollars was 11%, unchanged from the prior quarter. The US grew 9% and international grew 13%, both at similar levels to the December ending quarter. Drilling down further, in the March quarter, US credit grew 12%, a two percentage point moderation compared to the December quarter.

The [account] conversion is complete, and consistent with last quarter, contributed approximately 3 percentage points to our overall credit growth in the period. This positive impact will continue for the next two quarters, though at a declining rate before lapping.

Lower gasoline prices, the full effect of which hit payments volumes this quarter reduced credit volume growth by two points. As such, gasoline prices appear to be the primary driver of the step-down in credit growth.

US debit grew at 6% in the March quarter, generally in line with the December quarter. Lower gasoline prices had an outsized effect on debit growth, reducing it by approximately three percentage points.

In aggregate, lower gasoline prices impacted US payments volumes by a negative three points in the quarter. A portion of the savings from gasoline price declines is being spent in other categories, primarily grocery and restaurant segments. This is evident in debit payment volumes, not yet in credit payment volumes. More recently, through April 28th, US payments volume growth was 9%, with US credit growing 12% and debit 6%, essentially unchanged from Q2 trends.

Global cross-border volume delivered an 8% constant volume growth rate in the March quarter, unchanged from the December quarter. The US grew 6%, and international grew 10% in constant dollars. The further strengthening of the US dollar since the beginning of the year continues to have a negative impact on cross-border commerce.

Forward currency curves imply that the dollar will gain in strength. If this materializes, these cross-border trends are likely to persist, and perhaps worsen.

Through April 28th, cross-border volume on a constant dollar basis grew 9%, with a US growth rate of 6% and an international growth rate of 10% generally in line with the second quarter rate. As you can see, when you adjust for the dollar, the underlying drivers of our business have remained very stable in aggregate.

However, the significant currency moves we've experienced this year are impacting cross-border commerce in a variety of ways, with the largest impacts coming from the US dollar. Overall, cross-border volume growth has remained suppressed from historical levels.

As may be expected, outbound cross-border commerce from weakening currencies like the euro, ruble, and the Canadian dollar has been slowing. Hardest hit corridors were Russian card holder spending across Europe and the Middle East, and Canadian and EU card holder spending in the US. Offsetting this to some extent is accelerating cross-border commerce of the strong currencies, primarily the US dollar.

In Q2 we saw US card holder spend stepping up in Europe and Latin America. Chinese travel across the world continues to be robust. And cross-border spend out of Latin America is also picking up, helped by easier year-to-year comparisons.

Currency shifts will remain a critical variable to watch as the year progresses. Any moderation of dollar strength will help our business, and vice versa. Any pickup in economies like Europe, Brazil, and Russia would be welcome.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled 17 billion in the fiscal second quarter, an 11% increase over the prior year period, which was a one point improvement from Q1. The US grew 9%, while international delivered 14% growth. Transaction growth in the US is helped by some spending shift from gas to lower ticket categories of spend like QSR's. Through April 28th process transaction growth was 10%, with a US growth rate of 8% and an international growth rate of 14%.

CyberSource Transactions grew 14% in the period, as our reboot of the business continues to pay off. CyberSource will celebrate its five-year anniversary as a part of Visa this year, and we have completed the integration of this business into our global merchant services and solutions functional area. With the integration complete, and since CyberSource transactions do not represent a material component of Visa's business, we will no longer call out this data separately after this quarter.

Turning now to our Q2 reported financials, net operating revenue in the quarter was $3.4 billion, an 8% increase year-over-year, driven primarily by solid growth globally across all revenue categories, and as mentioned earlier, negatively impacted by approximately two and a half points by the strong US dollar. Solid global payments growth volume drove service revenue up $1.6 billion, up 8% over the prior year. As I mentioned earlier, underlying payments volume growth in local currencies remains very healthy.

Data processing revenue at $1.3 billion was 9% over prior year's quarter, based on continued strong growth rates in Visa processed transactions, both in the US and internationally. As mentioned, transaction growth in the US was helped by some gasoline related savings being spent on lower ticket size transactions, such as QSR's.

International transaction revenue was up 11% to $964 million, with higher currency volatility countering impacts from moderating cross-border payment volumes and currency translation. As we measure our key currencies, volatility was at five-year highs in Q2, meaningfully contributing to international revenues.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $1.1 billion, up 1% from the prior year, with moderate higher personnel, depreciation and G&A costs, offset by lower marketing and network and processing expenses. Higher personnel costs are primarily the result of higher headcount, reflective of our strategy to invest for future growth. The uptick in G&A was primarily the result of a loss related to our debit processing business in Asia, which we sold during the period.

Higher depreciation was a result of ongoing investments in technology assets and infrastructure to support our digital solutions and core business initiatives. Offsetting these were lower marking expenses, due to the absence of the winter Olympics and FIFA World Cup spend in the prior year, as well as shifts in current programs to the second half of the fiscal year. As mentioned earlier, this will result in a step-up in expense growth for the balance of the fiscal year.

Our operating margin was 67% for the second quarter, in line with our annual guidance of mid-60%s. Capital expenditures were $98 million in the quarter.

At the end of the quarter, adjusting for our recent stock split, we had 2.45 billion shares of class A common stock outstanding on an as converted basis. The weighted average number of fully diluted shares outstanding for the quarter totaled 2.46 billion.

On a split adjusted basis, we repurchased a total of 16.2 million shares during the March quarter, at an average price per share of just under $65 per share. Fiscal year-to-date, we have repurchased 28.6 million shares at a price of just under $65 per share, for a total of $1.9 billion. We currently have authorization to buy up to $3.8 billion of stock.

Since the IPO, Visa has add clear capital allocation strategy of investing cash to grow our business organically and through acquisitions as job number one, then returning excess cash to shareholders through stock buy-backs and dividends. Our dividend policy remains unchanged, and our Board recently declared a $0.12 quarterly dividend per split-adjusted share.

For the past seven years, Visa has had a consistent approach to stock buybacks with the pace being modulated to some extent from quarter-to-quarter by valuation considerations. This approach to buybacks will continue, as evidenced by our purchases year-to-date. This is a growth business that generates significant cash flow and a low base of stock. A systematic buyback using excess cash after capital investments and dividends is a strategy we have been and will remain committed to.

In summary, the underlying drivers of our business remain robust. The strong dollar and other large currency moves have created some headwinds this year, as have the sharp decline in gas prices. These are the normal fluctuations one expects in the course of business.

The very attractive long-term secular growth trends in our business remain intact. Despite the headwinds this year, our results are on track so far, and we are comfortable reaffirming the guidance we provided to you at the start of our FY15.

To conclude, this is my first earnings call as CFO of Visa. I'm delighted to be part of Charlie's team.

I look forward to meeting with many of you in the coming days and weeks, and with that, I will turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA INC: Thank you very much, Vasant. An official public welcome from all of us.

First of all, let me start with commenting that we're very pleased with the quarterly results. We think of them as solid and consistent, and certainly gratifying in the face of some of the more challenging economic conditions and geopolitical concerns that we see around the world.

Net revenue grew 9% nominally. FX impact hurt growth by two and a half points. Operating income growth of 11%, payments volume increased 11% on a constant dollar basis and cross-border volume growing at 8% on constant dollar basis, are all very solid numbers.

We see very little change in the overall global economy, with some exceptions, and we see more short-term risk than we see up side. Consumer spend in the US specifically continues at reasonable levels but is not accelerating. Gasoline prices continue to negatively impact both credit and debit.

Outside the US, we see continued weakness in Russia and Brazil, but we do see strength in China and our Middle East and North Africa region. And the effect of the strong US dollar, as Vasant pointed out, is meaningful. We see this through the FX translation impact, but additionally, the benefit of that we see of US spenders outside of the US is outweighed by the negative impact on the non-US spenders spending less in the United States.

Away from the economic growth environment, we continue to feel terrific about our activities to drive growth, which I will talk more about. We continue to make excellent progress on our evolving technology initiatives, which include everything we're doing in the digital space, mobile specifically, Visa Checkout, and the work we're doing in our global merchant services and solutions groups. We continue to have a strong flow of significant client wins and renewals.

I will speak a little more on several of these points in a moment, but in sum, while we remain appropriately cautious in the short-term, we remain quite bullish on the medium to long term, and continue to believe there are tremendous opportunities for years to come. Let me just amplify some of the comments that Vasant made regarding payment volume for a second.

First, the negative impact of gasoline on our US payment volume is significant, at three percentage points. As we said though the initial impact on payment volumes was felt in our first quarter, the full impact did not hit until the second quarter, and so the revenue impact will not be fully felt until our third quarter, because of the quarter lag on service revenues.

In an update to our March quarter, Visa Insight Survey, things haven't changed much with consumers. About 30% tell us they're spending more in other categories, up from 25% last quarter. The two categories that continue to stand out are the lower ticket categories, groceries and quick service restaurants.

As I said last quarter, the lag time between lower prices and spending we think is about six to nine months, as consumers accumulate enough to feel comfortable making larger purchases. Keep in mind, consumer confidence and confidence in sustained lower gas prices will impact their willingness to spend.

Cross-border volume remains steady at 8% in the quarter, as we said. And as I have mentioned and Vasant mentioned, the effect of the strong US dollar against certain global currencies is negatively influencing cross-border spend, and ultimately revenue growth. The US cardholders are spending more outside the US as a result of the stronger dollar, resulting in higher transaction and payment volume growth on a constant dollar basis at international merchants. However, given currency translations and generally lower acquiring fees in foreign countries, that volume is not as lucrative as what we would have enjoyed on an inbound basis.

On the other side of the equation, the strengthening of the US dollar has hurt in-bound spend to the US, primarily from the Canadian, European, Brazilian, and Japanese corridors. As Vasant mentioned, higher currency volatility has offset some of this.

Let me just turn now, and talk about some important client activity. Starting with the US, we renewed a multi-year credit issue agreement with US Bank, a great partner and one of our leading issuers, and the fifth largest commercial bank in the United States. US bank has been a long time Visa partner, and we lack further to building further upon the exciting things we've done with them, in terms of innovation, new product development, and security.

In the US co-brand space, Best Buy, the world's largest retailer, will convert their consumer credit card portfolio to Visa later this summer. We also renewed a multi-year credit agreement with BP. BP has been a longtime Visa partner, and launched its first co-brand in 2006.

We're thrilled with our new agreement with Costco. We're very pleased to have been selected to replace American Express as the credit card network for its US warehouse clubs and gasoline locations, beginning April 2016. A strategic benefit for all Visa issuers and their cardholders.

We're also excited to be partnering with Citi on the new CostcoVisa co-brand credit card. We view Costco as truly unique opportunity, and very strategic.

As I said, it is good for Visa, but an even bigger benefit for all of our clients. They're one of the largest and best retailers in the world. The third largest merchant in the US according to the national retail federation, someone who historically did not accept our credit product. And we now have an opportunity to gain acceptance where MasterCard and American Express are not accepted in the credit space. We also love that this is a truly long-term acceptant -- (technical difficulties) -- and co-brand partnership.

For all of our clients and their consumer and business clients, it will be the first time in 16 years they gain access to the tens and tens of billions of dollars of annual credit payments volume that heretofore went to American Express. It is a great opportunity to drive incremental usage. It should help all Visa issuers drive their cards towards the top of the wallet, and increase new account and card holder acquisition opportunities. This was a very competitive process, and there has been much discussion of what drove the outcome here.

I don't want to speak for Costco, but let me say that I have not met a retailer that cares more for their clients, their members more. Going forward, Costco will be entrusting their clients, their members, these precious relationships to Visa. If it were me, money wouldn't win the day, the best brand with the best capabilities would win.

As I've consistently said price matters, but cannot win the strategic relationship. So our strategy is not to be the low-cost provider.

As I think about what drove the decision here, I look at a series of things, including a view that we're the premier brand for Costco members, the belief that our brand will help Costco grow more than all the others. Clear, strong brand preference among their members and target market, specifically with the higher growth affluent and millennial holders, which in this case will drive membership and sales growth directly for Costco. Our broad global acceptance, our superior data and analytics capabilities, and our leadership on innovation.

I would also point out that we feel that all the benefits I've outlined, plus what our issuers bring to the table, can create more value than others. Specifically and quite simply, we, our issuing partner, and the co-brand partner can make more and provide greater value to our clients than smaller, closed loop networks. As a remainder, the implementation of these agreements is subject to the purchase of the existing co-brand credit portfolio by Citi.

Turning to our business outside the US, let me first start with China. Before I turn to market opening, which I know is a topic that you all want to hear about, I want to talk for a second about our existing business. It is doing extremely well. We have a significant and fast growing business, with relationships that have been growing and deepening.

We are the market share leader versus non-Chinese providers, and that share has been steady since 2013. We continue to sign contracts and be awarded new issuant business from Chinese Banks. As examples, this quarter we renewed and expanded our agreement with China Civic Bank, one of the largest partners in China. The program will now include issuance of Visa only branded companion cards, in addition to the dual branded program in place. China Everbright Bank, one of China's largest financial institutions renewed their credit agreement with Vise.

Regarding the market opening news, clearly this is a significant and positive step. The facts as we've read them thus far are consistent with our expectations, and we're very excited to see more specifics, which obviously will be important. We do intend to apply for a license.

As I've said, we have a strong business today with great local relationships, which have only become stronger over the past several years. We're excited to participate in one of the most important markets in the world. And for Visa to help in the growth of domestic Chinese marketplace, working with Chinese companies, and the Chinese government.

To be clear, we are not pursuing this for the short-term profit opportunity. This is a long-term commitment, which will pay off over the long term. We intend to prove our value as a partner within China, so bringing our value added capabilities to help grow the Chinese economy will come before our revenue and profit growth for quite some time. Regardless of when we start to participate domestically in China, we do not expect this to be a meaningful contributor to our financial results for many years to come.

Turning away from China, First-Ran Bank, a large issue in South Africa, and our largest issuer in sub-Saharan Africa, extended their contract with Visa. We also renewed our partnership with Desjardins, the leading financial group in Canada and the fourth largest cooperative financial group in the world. And lastly Banorte, one of Mexico's oldest and largest national institutions, renewed their credit agreement with Visa.

On the other side of the equation, Citibank and [Itau] will be moving their business away from Visa. In certain regions around the world, we have contacts with Citi which will continue to run for quite some time. In terms of how quickly these conversions commence, and ultimately how long it takes has not been made clear to us, and we will let you know as we learn more.

While losing any business is disappointing to us, we know that we're not going to win everything, as we operate in a very competitive environment. We've always been very thoughtful and strategic about choosing for which clients we want to be aggressive in this competitive process, and we feel great about our portfolio of client relationships. Importantly to us, we remain disciplined in our approach to negotiations, and the net of these recent wins and losses leaves Visa and our partners in a better strategic position for the long term than would have otherwise been the case.

A couple of other quick updates on the regulatory and legal fronts. First of all, in Russia, we have been actively working with the national payment card system and central bank to achieve full migration of Russian domestic Visa transactions with minimal disruptions. All domestic Visa transactions will continue to be processed in accordance with the national payment system law.

And in the US, on the merchant litigation case, we continue to make good progress in settling the opt-out cases. Fiscal year-to-date, we've paid out $321 million, and additional settlements are progressing nicely.

And we continue to lead the world to the world of digital commerce. Visa Checkout continues to make great strides. We now have 260 financial institution partners, and 140 merchants live globally. To date we have over 4 million registered users, over $46 billion in total addressable volume accepts Visa Checkout. And we continue to add merchants, including small and medium size retailers, where our acquiring partners are helping us grow acceptance.

We're also deploying Visa Checkout outside of the US. As an example, we launched Visa checkout in China at the end of March, China Merchant Bank is the first institution in China to introduce Visa checkout to its customers. In the coming months, we're working with other Chinese institutions to deploy checkout.

In April, we kicked off consumer marketing campaigns in both Australia and Canada, in partnership with some of the biggest merchants in those regions. We're on track to be live in a total of 16 markets this year. ComScore conducted a study last month to evaluate our progress with merchants since launching Visa Checkout last July. The findings are very clear.

Visa Checkout customers convert to buyers 69% of the time. This is 66% higher than conversion rates reported with traditional on-line checkout. The product is doing exactly what we said it would do, solving the on-line friction problem at a rate that's higher than the competitive solutions we surveyed.

In the digital solutions space, a few comments. In my time here at Visa, it is amazing the amount of companies that are working and talking about the future of payments in the role, some very young, some very established. Regardless of tenure, it's clear to me that they fall to two categories. Those that talk about being innovative, and those that are actually driving innovation in way that truly drives incremental value and can scale.

I'm proud of the work of the Visa team, and proud to be leading the industry into this digital world. When we launched tokenization, we told you it was more than a set of just security standards. We said it was a platform to enable new commerce experiences, then came Apple Pay.

When we participated in the Apple Pay launch, we said it was just the beginning, and there would be more solutions that leverage our digital platforms. Since then, Samsung has announced the new Galaxy S6 payments experience and Google's Android operating system supporting host card emulation. And we have several clients developing new HCE based applications in our sandbox as we speak.

As the industry leader, a Visa partnership gives the chance for these experiences to be successful because of our technology, our scale, and our leadership. Our innovation is not something every consumer sees, but it is the things that we do as a platform that others can build upon, and it is our platform that becomes embedded in all sorts of devices, operating systems, and mobile apps.

Essentially we're enabling our partners to take advantage of one common payment platform and set of standards, but still able to customize their solutions to their specific client needs appropriate to their markets, with their preferred user experiences. Great companies come to Visa first because they know we understand the technology of payments better than anyone else, and we understand the needs of their users.

And we continue to build out our capabilities to support our merchant partners. We completed our acquisition of TrialPay this quarter. It is a platform that we've worked with before, and one that proved its value proposition before we decided to acquire the company. Combined with our broader merchant capabilities across Visa Analytics, Loyalty Products, and VisaNet capabilities, this is a platform that we intend to use to help merchants improve their marketing and thereby drive their incremental sales.

During the last six months, we introduced to the market three new products and solutions specifically designed to help our merchant partners. First, we created a customer intelligence dashboard, a custom analytic dashboard for merchants to enable them to understand who is shopping with them at the store level.

We're helping merchants not only understand the sales trends, but also who is shopping, their demographics, where they live, where else they shop, et cetera. The platform is helping our gasoline merchants better predict demand, airlines to optimize routes and load factors, and many others to optimize marketing campaigns.

The second solution is a digital marketing measurement product. Earlier this year, we launched a new platform which enables our merchant clients to measure their digital market spend with an entirely new level of accuracy.

When a merchant runs a digital campaign, we're able to show them in real time how many of those impressions led to specific sales using a Visa card. For many years merchants have taken a big leap of faith that clicks led to real sales. For the first time ever, we're now helping them measure the actual sales.

The final example is a pilot program but one that we're excited about. It's a platform that actually drives new customers into our client's store. The platform is powered by Trial Pay, where we place targeted merchant offers on the web and on mobile apps.

For example, you're checking into a flight, you will see an offer to get 500 miles if you shop at Pete's coffee in the next week. When the customer comes in to buy their coffee, they're notified in real time that they've received their bonus -- miles, in this case.

Also we track the purchases and show the merchant in real time how many of the customers are coming into which specific stores. Early days, but client interest remains very strong. As you can see, these are products which we believe over a period of time changes our dialogue with merchants as we help them grow their business.

So just to wrap up, we're very pleased with our performance for the first half of the fiscal year, especially in light of some of the challenging aspects of the economic environment. It continues to be a very exciting time in payments, as you can tell from all the recent announcements. We remain bullish on our future, and we continue to broaden and deepen our work relationships with issuers, acquirers, merchants, governments, and other third parties.

With that, Vasant and I will be pleased to take your questions.

JACK CARSKY: Okay, Shania, we're ready for the Q and A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir.

(Operator Instructions)

Our first question is coming from Darrin Peller of Barclays. Your line is open.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Just trying to square a little more of the discussion on EPS growth being at the low end of the mid-teens guidance range, given your unchanged revenue growth guidance. Was it primarily tax rate assumptions in the second half of the year?

Then just to further add to that, are you incorporating further volatility benefits, FX volatility benefits in your outlook and guidance? Because it clearly helped your cross-border revenue growth this quarter. Thanks, guys.

VASANT PRABHU: Darrin, just a couple of things.

I think the two things you should take away from what we said was there's a certain amount of moving around going on between the third quarter and the fourth quarter. We said that the revenue growth in the third quarter will be the low point of the year in terms of growth, and then it will pick up in the fourth quarter, approaching double digits. So that's one thing.

The second is expense growth will step up a bit in the third quarter. Still in the mid-single digits level for the full year, but step up in the third quarter as some expense is shifting between the first half and the second half in marketing and technology. And then if you look at our personnel expenses, you should be looking more at what the first quarter level was, and a little bit of growth with some of the initiatives we have underway.

And the last piece that shifts things, mostly between the third and the fourth quarter, was the tax rate. The main take away from all this is, as we said, $0.06 to $0.08 shift out of the third quarter. For the full year all we're saying is we still feel good about the range we provided, but we're at the lower end of the range. Really in line with where the street is right now.

Your other component of the question was -- currency volatility. We did tell you that it was at five-year highs in the second quarter. So in terms of what we're expecting going forward, as you know, we benefit when there's volatility because FX spreads widen.

It does offset a little bit the translation impact of currencies. We're not assuming they stay at five-year highs. We're assuming that there's some amount of regression to the mean, but we're not assuming they go to the kinds of lows we saw last year.

So it's anybody's guess really. So we're just assuming that it's not going to stay at this level, but nor is it going to be as calm as it was last year.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next question is Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Could you talk a little bit about how you will be trying to protect the volume from Costco, together with Citi, from American Express trying to win it back? And maybe just as a corollary, talk a little bit about your thoughts about what's going to happen when existing co-brands come up for renewal and the competitive environment, there?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me take the second one first. Co-brands are in the market certainly all the time. It's been a competitive marketplace.

And all the things that I talked about in terms of the advantages that we think we brought to Costco, we think we can provide to almost all co-brand partners out there. We are -- in this case, it's certainly helpful to be the incumbent, and the leader in the space. We've got deep relationships with the largest co-brand providers, certainly here in the United States and others across the world.

And those relationships, where we believe if you treat the partner properly, you prove to them over a period of time you help them grow, There's got to be a reason for them to want to do something else, other than be with you. And so we feel very good about our positioning there.

On the Costco front, I mean -- again, I think when you take a look at what we bring to equation, you can assume that Costco, who's got the most to lose in this, has thought an awful lot about what risks they have and what opportunities they have. And the reason for them to want to go and take the risk of moving the portfolio is because they think there's more up side doing business with us and Citi in this case.

And when we think about, and they think about the brand preference that their customers have, as I said in my remarks, the things that specifically the affluent and millennials think about our brand versus the competing brands out there, we're very confident that we'll be able to do a better job for Costco than the incumbent. And that will start day one, as we work extremely closely with Citi and Costco, and that work has begun already.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Congratulations on the big win.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next is Jason Kupferberg of Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks, guys. So can you just confirm whether or not some of your planned pricing actions for April got implemented as expected? And then can you also just clarify related to Costco, do the incentives there hit in FY15 or in FY16, when the contract actually begins?

CHARLIE SCHARF: So Costco will be 2016.

VASANT PRABHU: And the pricing is in. Just to clarify, the pricing -- there were two changes, both of which happened in April. The first was US acquirer service fees on all credit products, and the second was US acquirer international service assessments. They went in roughly around the same time, but the impacts are somewhat different.

One of them hits a little earlier in terms of impacts on our financials, the other a little later. So we get the full benefit of the pricing in the fourth quarter. We get a little less of a benefit in the third quarter. It's really a small difference, but it's in.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Okay. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: Thanks. I guess I have a follow-up question to the Costco.

Charlie, you mentioned it's been competitive in co-brand, but is it from an economic standpoint incrementally more competitive? And does that then play out further as you renew some of the other co-brands down the line?

I guess secondly, how confident are you that Citi will be able to secure the portfolio from American Express? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: So when you say is it economically more competitive --

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Is it getting progressively more -- I mean are the economics materially different than they were before?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Well, first of all -- first let's talk Costco for a second, then we'll talk more broadly about co-brands. And I tried to make this point clearly. So, let me just make sure that I'm even clearer on it. We view Costco as something extremely unique.

And so this is an industry where it's amazing, the gossip. And I don't know whether it's the consultants or what it is, but everyone likes to go around and talk about everything that's happening in terms of pricing and who did what to whom on this. What I would tell you is what we, and my guess is issuers were willing to do for Costco is very specific to a unique opportunity to gain the kind of credit acceptance that we've talked about, and the kind of co-brand that we've talked about, for a partner now that didn't accept our products in the past of this size.

It is a -- we view it as a unique opportunity to capture that volume. And then to use the ability to have that acceptance to grow our products elsewhere, regardless of whether they're co-brand or not co-brand, but obviously the co-brand here will bring with it extraordinary benefits. So Costco to us stands on its own, in terms of the way we think economically about what we should be willing to do.

In terms of whether the co-brand space is getting more competitive economically, I'm not sure. It's very, very competitive, as is the issuing business. And I think when people lose relationships like this, they need to figure out where they're going to look, and so we assume that they'll continue to be competitive.

As we think about our future and we think about our ability to continue to deliver the kind of growth that I think you are all expecting from us, we factor that into our assumptions along the way.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay. And just the Citi portfolio? AMEX's sales to Citi of the existing portfolio.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Everything that we hear suggests confidence, but we're not a party to it.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next is Bill Carcache of Nomura.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES CO., LTD.: Thank you. Apologies for another Costco question, but was wondering if you could speak to whether any of your issuing bank partners have expressed any sort of concern about the interchange rate at which the Costco volume will be coming over?

Just in the sense that it could be difficult for them to offer rewards on the Costco spend. Just curious if you think that could be an issue?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Well, I guess I would start with, there were a lot of -- there were more issuers than Citi who wanted to win the co-brand. And so whoever certainly was involved in the process understands the competitive dynamic and what would exist.

And again, I think from our perspective, the conversation is exactly what I've said here. It's a unique and strategic opportunity to get access to an extraordinary amount of volume that we and our clients weren't going to have access to. And if you think about if we didn't win, the kind of conversation that we were going to have, and the kind of conversation we would have to have with our issuers and their clients about not being able to participate in the opening of one of potentially the biggest retailers in the world, is not a conversation that we would have relished.

So we feel very good about what we've done here. When we make decisions that affect our clients, we take them extraordinarily seriously, and understand that they will look at those decisions in the context with everything else that we do for them. And we feel good about what we've -- where we've come out and are confident that it's a benefit for them.

BILL CARCACHE: Great. Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next, Craig Maurer, of Autonomous.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS: Question on Brazil, the Itau loss, from what we understand that will be fairly material as a percentage of that business. And with [ELO] creeping into the market as well, are you concerned at all about Visa's historic market share in Brazil shrinking significantly?

And following up on your comment on a Mexican win, do you have any greater visibility on when that market will open for Visa processing? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me do the first one, and then, Jack, you need to remind me about the second question.

So in Brazil, listen, losses are losses. You know, I would just make it clear that these types of decisions aren't generally decisions that people make without talking to a series of people. So we were certainly involved in a series of conversations. And again, everyone makes their decisions in terms of what they're willing to do, and at what price they're willing to do it at.

And when a large issuer says that they're going to move volume away from you, it's going to be hard for us to make that volume up elsewhere. And that's a decision that we chose to make to some extent relative to how aggressive we were willing to be relative to pricing. Because we, as I said in my remarks, it's important for us not just to win volume, not just willing to win incremental revenue, but do it in a way which is smart for us and for the payments industry for the long term.

And ELO is -- it is a fact. It is what it is. It's a different kind of network with different kind of capabilities targeted, for the most part, at different types of consumers than we generally target our business.

And I'll tell you that I feel great about the relationships that we have with the other large issuers in Brazil. And think we have the opportunity to continue taking share from them, albeit that share won't we place what we'll lose from Itau.

JACK CARSKY: Mexico processing.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, Mexico. There's no timetable. We're actively working on some things, there, where we think that we can prove to the issuers that by us processing, it actually becomes a benefit for them, and there's nothing imminent there, but it will evolve over time.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next is Dan Perlin, RBC.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. My question is basically this: The step-up in expense growth occurring at the same time that your incentive fees are kind of suggesting that they're also stepping up -- I guess it's two things.

One is, kind of alludes to the fact that you obviously see something on the horizon, maybe it's second half of this year or early into next, and I would like to get some color on that? Why you had pulled the trigger on both at the same time?

Secondly, why the incentive fee slip? Why did the client take so long to convert? What were those conversations like, and why are they not taking place?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me do the first one first. The first, they are unrelated. There's nothing that we see on the horizon or anything like that.

As we said, incentives -- I've been here two-and-a-half years, and it seems to me that we talk about this every single quarter, which is we do our best to provide insight. And we certainly do it for our own planning as to what incentives are going to be, quarter by quarter. But we don't have a lot of control over it.

It's hard to -- it's hard to know exactly when negotiations will become finalized, contracts will close, and it changes the level of incentives. So as we've talked about multiple times, it is the full year that we really think about as something that we feel much better about than quarter-to-quarter.

And on the one hand, we'd love to have things close sooner. It's not something we try and delay, but it happens in the normal course of business.

And on the marketing side, there it just relates to some specific things that we're going to be doing in the second half of the year that really relate to the summertime, coming out of the summer into pre-school and then eventually leading into the holiday season. That relates to how we want to time our marketing spend.

VASANT PRABHU: I just want to highlight that we're not changing anything in terms of our full year expectations on expense growth. So there's really no change. So it's not like we pulled the trigger to do something different in the third or fourth quarter.

As Charlie said, there are some marketing programs, particularly as it relates to Visa Checkout, that we think we can get a lot of traction doing in the back-to-school period. That's money that has been coordinated with merchants and things like that, that this is the best time to spend it.

There's some regional marketing programs that are happening in the second half. There's some technology initiatives that are ramping up that may have been a little slower to start than we might have expected earlier, but are ramping up into the year, but it was all expect. And then in terms of the personnel expenses, there's a reasonable predictability in that, it fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter, sometimes there's some noise, small items here and there.

But if you look at our first quarter run rate and you assume there's a certain amount of growth with some of the initiatives we have, all in all, I guess the short answer is -- we're not doing anything specific to ramp up the expense growth, and our full year expectation does not change. And as we said in our remarks, if the world changes, we're ready to take a hard look at what remains to be spent and decide whether it needs to be spent.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: James Friedman, of Susquehanna.

JAMES FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP / SIG: I wanted to ask about commercial. Charlie, any perspective about how you are doing on the commercial side? One of your competitors had called out some weakness on the commercial side, at least in North America in the calendar first quarter. Do you think that you're taking share, and how are you competing in the commercial market?

VASANT PRABHU: Setting aside the share question, commercial payments growth for us in the second quarter was quite healthy at 10%; it's performing well. A lot of interest from non-financial institutions, participants to provide value added services. So there's a lot of non-traditional people coming in, like technology providers, healthcare entities, and so on. I don't know if Charlie --

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only thing, commercial -- we all talk about commercial, across all of the different people that participate in this business, as one of the great opportunities. I mean, the two really meaningful opportunities that the industry has that are really meaningful, apart from just the business as we know it, is P2P and commercial. There are large, large sums of money that -- on the commercial space, specifically, we compete in. We've worked really hard on our products, we're doing fine in it.

I really don't know about share. It's hard to know about it. But I think the 10% growth has the opportunity to be much, much larger. And that's something that we're working through, and hopefully in the coming quarters, we'll have more to talk about specifically about what we're doing there.

But it's an important business for us today. And the question is whether or not we can crack a nut and incrementally move it from the something which is incremental to which is more of a step function.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, Jamie. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next is Jim Schneider of Goldman Sachs.

JIM SCHNEIDER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question.

Charlie, relative to the China opportunity, I realize that there's a lot of unwritten rules at this point, and there's a lot of things still in the air. But can you maybe talk about your operational readiness from a network perspective to enter China, and what you need to get to a level of full functionality, there, and kind of the game plan on that front?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes. Again, I would say, this one -- the devil is going to be in the details in terms of the way the rules are written. I would say it's been our expectation -- well, let me back up.

What I said in the remarks is that there was -- what has been said has been what we've expected. And so you should assume that we've been planning for that and working towards that. There are different time periods that are laid out in terms of what the state counsel announced, relative to when things would have to be ready. And we have teams of people around the Company that are working to be prepared to enter as soon as we possibly can.

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Hochstim, of Buckingham.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Hi, thanks. I wonder, could you just go back to the international transaction revenue growth, and help us understand how much of the change really was attributable to -- what the change is attributable to the increase in FX volatility? Because the gap might be even bigger next quarter, and do you have a currency adjusted growth rate that would help us get back to that? And I guess also there's mix differences because of changes in cross-border spending?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, I think you should look at -- there's three things going on in that international transactions line. One is, of course, all those transactions are in various currencies, so there's clearly an FX translation impact, which is largely negative.

The second is the things we talked about, which is that strong currency markets have outbound commerce that's improving, but the purchasing power of the currency is greater. So that you don't get the full volume benefit even though transactions are growing, and then in weak currency markets you've got inbound -- you've got declining outbound commerce and a weaker currency. The net effect of all this is also negative.

Offsetting that, certainly we've benefited from volatility. I don't think we really ever publicly quantified those kinds of benefits. They move around.

But clearly there's no question that some of the negative impact of the currency translation has been offset by the widening of the spread. And the two are uncorrelated.

You could see the currencies moving the other direction but the volatilities don't have to go along with them. But we'll keep you posted.

As I said in the comments or in the question earlier, we're not assuming that volatilities remain at these highs. We're assuming some moderation in volatilities in the second half of the year. We're also not assuming that currency markets will go back to being sort of as calm as they were around this time last year.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: Right. So if they stayed close to these levels, we could see higher revenue than you have built in?

VASANT PRABHU: Yes, but --

CHARLIE SCHARF: It depends on what else it affects.

VASANT PRABHU: Exactly, there are other things. As I said, three things going on in that line. Higher volatilities will help us on that particular dimension. On the other hand, a move in currencies, which affect the translation line and so on. There's many things going on in that line.

JACK CARSKY: Thanks, David. Next question.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane of Deutsche Bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. Just wanted to hopefully get some way to quantify the Citi and Itau losses, and is it offset by some of the gains that you've had? Just trying to think about future modeling purposes.

And then secondly, on tokenization, my understanding is we'll probably suspend charging for any fees even beyond FY16? Just hoping to get an update on that.

CHARLIE SCHARF: So we don't talk specifically about the volumes of Citi and Itau. As I said in my remarks, not clear to us what the migration looks like. So it is hard to be very, very specific other than things like Costco and the other positive developments that we have make us feel very good about how those things all fit together.

Tokenization, what's the question?

JACK CARSKY: Are we going to continue to charge in 2016? Will we charge?

CHARLIE SCHARF: So we have the rate card out there. We've waived it through 2016, and we're continuing to look at exactly what we think the right way -- I would say what the right long-term way for people to think about tokenization is. But to me, the important thing is, no one should expect that to be a monetary driver for us.

JACK CARSKY: And with that, Shania, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Tien-tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks. Just wanted to ask on Europe, with legislation getting closer to being finalized. Does that change the probability of the put in any way? What's the latest there Charlie?

And then just on Costco, real quick. Just the exclusive merchant acceptance, how critical is that for Costco, I guess, Visa? I know that's driving a lot of the uniqueness to it. Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: On the first one, listen, I don't think it changes the probabilities at all from our perspective, because we're not inside their board rooms to understand exactly what they're saying and what their drivers are. It's a consistent question that people ask us, in terms of what the probabilities are, and we really don't know because they need the 80% vote. Until they get the 80%, then it's not going to happen.

So really don't know, really don't understand what the dynamics are, and again, what really matters is how the blocking group of people feel about it. So those that don't want to vote for it. That's something that we're not privy to, because we're not in those boardroom discussions.

But again, to circle back, we work really closely with Visa Europe. Example, whole group of people here today, Nicola, the CEO, is here today, as we're working through all the things that we're doing together to do a great job for our global clients, enable them to be as competitive as they can be versus the competition in Europe.

And then the credit acceptance versus MasterCard and American Express, hugely relevant. That's why when you talk about the uniqueness of it, it just doesn't exist for a merchant this size that never accepted our product and now all of a sudden doesn't accept our other major competitors here in the United States.

As we think about what that means for all of our clients, and for our cardholders, that's certainly factored into our thinking and I'm sure the issuer is thinking in terms of the importance. And what it could mean for -- certainly for our brand.

JACK CARSKY: And with that we'd like to thank everybody for joining us today. If anybody has any other questions, feel free to give Investor Relations a call.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc | pclb : Costco Wholesale Corporation
   IN
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards | iretail : Retail
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150502eb4u00ayi
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  Visa  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,829 words
   PD
29 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc's fiscal Q1 2015 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC: Thanks, David. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa Inc's fiscal first quarter earnings conference call. With us today are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer; and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the Internet and is accessible on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.Visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing financial and statistical highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance and our actual results could materially differ as a result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of ours.

For historical non-GAAP or pro-forma related financial information disclosed in this call, and related GAAP measures and other information required by Reg G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release. This release can also be accessed through the IR section of our website.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC: Thanks, Jack. Let me begin with my usual call outs and observations. First, as you can see from the earnings press release, we announced that our Board of Directors has authorized a 4-for-1 stock split. Each Class A stockholder of record at the close of business on February 13, 2015 will receive three additional shares for every share held on the record date in the form of a 100% stock dividend, and trading will begin on a split-adjusted basis on March 19, 2015.

Due to the structure of the various classes, holders of Class B and C shares will not receive a stock dividend. Instead, the conversion rate for the Class B and C shares will be adjusted after the stock split so that the Class B and C stockholders will retain the same relative ownership percentages that they had prior to the stock split.

Second call out involves FX. Since our last earnings call, the US dollar has continued to strengthen against most of our key currencies. Based on the December 31 forward exchange rates, we project an incremental 50 basis point negative impact on our full-year revenue growth.

Third call out relates to cross-border activity. Cross-border volumes softened 2 percentage points in the December quarter to 8% growth in constant dollars and a further 1 percentage point to 7% through January 21. Once again, FX is an important contributor, as a stronger than anticipated US dollar has led to substantially reduce travel into the US from Europe, Canada, and Latin America, notably Brazil.

Beyond FX, the severe economic challenges in Russia have also been a notable drag on cross-border results. In total, our outlook for cross-border volume-driven revenue growth in FY15 is approximately 0.5 percentage point less than when we began the year. Partially offsetting these headwinds has been a strong rebound in currency volatility versus prior quarters.

The improvement has sustained from September through early January and has stepped up even further due to recent Central Bank actions by the Swiss and the Canadians and was further aided by the recent elections in Greece. Given the unpredictability of volatility, we will continue to be appropriately conservative in our outlook on how sustainable this is for the balance of the fiscal year. For full-year revenue growth, we are maintaining our guidance of low double-digit constant dollar growth with a negative 2 percentage points of foreign exchange impact, but would position expectations at the lower end of that range.

Looking ahead to Q2, we expect this quarter to be impacted the most by FX, as well as by lower gas prices, and to therefore deliver a growth rate lower than originally anticipated, but still in the mid-single-digit range. From there, we expect net revenue growth rates to build in Q3, reaching double-digits in Q4.

We are reaffirming client incentives in a range of 17.5% to 18.5% of gross revenue. While Q1 came in at 17.4%, we expect Q2 to Q4 to run at somewhat higher levels, given the pacing of deal activity for the balance of the year.

We are also reaffirming our full-year EPS guidance of mid-teens. That said, remember, when projecting Q2 results, in Q2 of last year, Visa booked a sizable tax benefits, which included both one-time and ongoing tax impacts and we will be lapping an unusually low level of client incentives in the prior year.

Lastly, we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders. To this end, we repurchased a total of 3.1 million shares during the December quarter at an average price per share of $259 and change.

Through January 27, we purchased an additional 2.5 million shares for a total of 5.6 million shares fiscal year-to-date, at an average price of $258, leaving us with an open to buy of $4.2 billion. Of note, all share repurchase programs authorized prior to October 2014 have now been completed.

Now let's turn to the numbers. I will cover our global payment volume and processed transaction trends for the first fiscal quarter followed by our results through January 21. I'll then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal first quarter.

Global payment volume growth for the December quarter in constant dollars was 11%. The US grew 10% and international grew 13%, both at similar levels to the September ending quarter.

Drilling down further in the December quarter, US credit grew 14%, a 1 percentage point improvement compared to Q4. During the quarter, we experienced account conversions and de-conversions, the net effect of which positively impacted credit payment volume by a little more than 2 percentage points. By the end of Q1, the vast majority of account conversions will have taken place.

Turning to US debit, it grew at 7% in the December quarter, flat to the September quarter. More recently, through January 21, US payment volume growth was 9%, while US credit grew 12%, and debit grew 6%. In terms of fuel, significantly lower gas prices had a negative 1 percentage point effect on US payment volume growth in the quarter, with a disproportionate impact in December, and with a bigger impact on debit than credit.

Global cross-border volume delivered an 8% constant dollar growth rate in the December quarter, down from the 10% rate in the September quarter. The US grew 4% and international grew 9% in constant dollars.

Through January 21, cross-border volume on a constant dollar basis grew 7%, with a US growth rate of 6% and an international growth rate of 7%, further decelerating from the December levels. The underperforming travel corridors referenced earlier, in combination with weaker growth in Brazil, Russia, and Ukraine were the primary culprits. Travel within Asia remains strong.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled $17.6 billion in the fiscal first quarter, a 10% increase over the prior-year period. The US grew 9%, while international delivered 14% growth. Through January 21, processed transaction growth was 10%, with a US growth rate of 9% and an international growth rate of 13%.

Now turning to the income statement, net operating revenue in the quarter was $3.4 billion, a 7% increase year-over-year, driven primarily by solid growth globally across all revenue categories, and as mentioned earlier, was negatively impacted by approximately 2 points of foreign currency headwinds.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.5 billion, up 8% over the prior year, and was driven by solid global payment volume growth. Data processing revenue was $1.4 billion, up 9% over the prior year's quarter, based on solid growth rates in Visa transactions, both in the US and internationally. International transaction revenue was up 9% to $970 million, as increased currency volatility countered negative impacts from FX.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $1.1 billion, up 6% from the prior year, primarily related to higher personnel, marketing, and other expenses, which support our growth strategies and product initiatives. Operating margin was 66% for the first quarter, in line with our annual guidance of mid-60%s. Our effective tax rate was 30.6%, within our guidance range of low 30%s. Capital expenditures were $104 million in the quarter.

At the end of the quarter, we had 616 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding on an as-converted basis. The weighted-average number of fully diluted shares outstanding for the quarter totaled 619 million. Finally, for completeness, our full-year guidance metrics for revenue growth, client incentives, operating margin, tax rate, EPS growth, and free cash flow remain unchanged.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA INC: Thank you very much, Byron, and good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I'm just going to start by telling you, we as a Management team, are quite pleased with our results. We continue to produce strong and consistent results in the global economic environment, which is providing more headwinds than tailwinds.

Consumers spend continues at reasonable levels but it is not accelerating and we expect gas prices to continue to be a near-term headwind. Geopolitical tensions are playing a more meaningful role in our results, as they have at different times during our past. Having said that, our growth is still strong, and well in excess of consumer spending growth, as the movement from cash to electronic payments continues, regardless of economic and geopolitical events.

As most of you probably know, we've put forth a proposal in this year's proxy to amend our Corporate charter that would position us to effect a stock split at an appropriate time and at the discretion of our Board of Directors. As you can see from the announcement today, the proposal did indeed pass, and our Board of Directors declared a 4-for-1 stock split in the form of a stock dividend.

This action, in addition to our dividend increase and our previously announced share repurchase program, are all indicators of our confidence in our future. Our long-term outlook continues to be bright, as our investments in digital payments provide growing opportunities for us.

Let me make a couple of comments now about our first-quarter financial results. As Byron said, it was another strong quarter driven by solid underlying payment volumes and processed transactions globally. As expected, operating revenue grew 7% nominally, or 9% on a constant currency basis, while expenses increased 6% and earnings per share registered a healthy 15% growth.

Global payment volume grew 11%, flat to last quarter and still robust. Solid rates in the US of 10% were bolstered by international at 13%, again, no change from the previous quarter and still robust in spite of everything that is transpiring across the globe.

US growth moderated slightly in the month of January, driven by further declines in gas prices. As Byron mentioned, our US results benefited from conversions, as we converted significantly more accounts onto our platform than were converted away from us.

Let me just cover a few topical items now. First, a few words about the US holiday spending season. The holiday spending season patterns evolved differently than prior years. Growth was stronger growing into Thanksgiving than we see in the past and it tailed off to the month of December, but a significant driver was the continuing decrease in gasoline prices.

Having said that, our rate of growth was higher this year than last year, including the decrease in gas prices. We also look at the rate of growth year-over-year excluding conversions and gas prices to gauge the underlying economic environment, and it looks to be about flat.

On that topic, I want to talk a little bit more about gas for a second. First to put the drop in the context, US fuel prices are down approximately 30% since June. This drop amounts to approximately $60 per month for the average consumer.

According to our surveys, approximately 50% of the savings consumers are seeing is being saved, 25% is being used to pay down debt, and approximately 25% is being spent in other discretionary categories. These categories include grocery, clothing, and restaurants. This is consistent with what we've seen in our own spend data. As we look forward, we would anticipate the savings will accumulate and ultimately we would see more spent in the discretionary categories, including higher ticket items such as home improvement, electronics, and travel and entertainment.

Third, cross-border volume moderated 8% from 10% in the prior quarter. We see the effect of geopolitical tensions here and the strong dollar and the corridors effected are not surprising, as Byron pointed out.

Fourth, the rebound in currency volatility is material. It's obviously welcomed and not surprising given what's going on in the world. The moderation in cross-border continued into the current quarter, as has increased currency volatility.

On the expense front, we continue to manage expenses judiciously, and while we continue to appropriately invest in all of our long-term initiatives, there are defensive measures we can and will take if needed in the face of any slowing economic scenario. We're not doing this yet, but we remain prepared.

Let me turn my attention now just to say a couple of words about our competitive position. We love our competitive position in the marketplace. We are the industry leader but this alone doesn't give us comfort.

We know that we're the target for others, traditional and nontraditional. Thus far, we are comforted by the fact that we continue to maintain our share in an intelligent way for our shareholders.

We are laser-focused on investing to drive cash through electronic payments, partnering with those who will drive commerce in the digital world, and creating platforms to embed ourselves in that digital commerce. Visa Checkout, Visa Token Services, Visa Digital Solutions, and enabling Apple Pay, these are things that we've done so far and there's much more to come.

Let me turn now and make a couple of comments and updates regarding the legal and regulatory front. On the domestic front, we're certainly pleased with the recent outcome of the Supreme Court's decision not to hear the National Association of Convenience Stores' appeal against the Federal Reserve Board. The decision is an important step in bringing clarity to the debit interchange landscape. We're hopeful this will encourage all parties to work more closely to address areas of mutual interest.

Speaking more broadly to the merchant litigation, we've made considerable progress in settling the MDL opt-out cases. Through the end of the first quarter, and to date in January, we've paid out approximately $335 million to opt-out merchants. We're optimistic that we will continue to see good progress.

Additionally, we've had approximately 1,100 requests from smaller retailers to opt back into the class. They will be compensated accordingly under the terms of the Class Agreement.

In Russia, we continue to work with the Central Bank of Russia and the Russian national payment card system to transition our domestic processing to their network. We continue to estimate the 2015 full-year impact to be $50 million.

Quick update on Visa Checkout. As I mentioned last quarter, Visa Checkout saw excellent initial traction in the early fall, which has accelerated during our first fiscal quarter, capped off by the holiday shopping season. This was driven by strong media campaign in conjunction with our NFL sponsorship, as well as individual merchant and media collaboration. Thus far, we've conducted 24 co-marketing campaigns with some great merchant partners.

Visa Checkout now has over 240 financial institution partners across the United States, Canada, and Australia, which account for almost 50% of our global e-commerce volume. Several issuers are also participating in marketing programs, including e-mail and online campaigns. To date, we have over 3 million registered users and consumers can now use Visa Checkout to shop at over 110 e-commerce retailers, representing over $42 billion in addressable volume.

We continue to see good success with Apple Pay and with all involved parties actively promoting the service either independently or in concert with each other. As Apple reported yesterday, about 750 banks and credit unions have signed on to bring their customers Apple Pay.

To date, 43 of our issuing partners have enrolled in our tokenization services. These issuers collected collectively represent 75% of our aggregate US payment volume. Over 500 of our clients have signed Apple Pay contract and we're actively working with them to enable the service.

As importantly, the token technology employed here sets the standard for other digital experiences, and you will see others come to market over the course of the next year. As we gauge of the success, I agree with Apple's assessment that it's early days, but the excitement we see is encouraging.

It will take some time to build out the NFC acceptance infrastructure for Apple Pay and others. That is happening now and will continue as merchants upgrade their terminals to accept chip-enabled cards. I would also note that few, if any, chip-enabled terminals are shipped that don't also contain NFC functionality.

More specifically on EMV chip cards, we continue to work closely with all industry players and are very optimistic that the adoption of chip cards will continue to accelerate over 2015. Based on the payment security task force [protection] projections, we expect to see well over a 0.5 billion chip cards enabled in consumer's hands by the end of 2015 and roughly one-half of all terminals of surveyed acquirers will be activated by year-end. We expect that by the end of 2017, roughly 70% of all cards and all terminals will be chip-enabled.

Moving on to emerging and evolving technologies like host card emulation, in the fall we launched our sandbox environment for Visa Digital Solutions. We have several clients and partners that have been actively developing new mobile and digital services in our sandbox.

Next week, our Visa Digital Solutions platform will launch and be live in production. We expect that several of our clients and partners will launch the new services over the coming months. Lastly we're putting the finishing touches on several other initiatives that we will be announcing during the upcoming Mobile World Congress meeting in early March, so stay tuned.

Just to close, we're very pleased with the start to our fiscal year. As we indicated last quarter, while we'll expect volume to remain relatively strong, we are expecting revenues to be softer in the first half of the year, including the second quarter, which we expect to be the trough. The back half of the year should improve as gas prices stabilize and the effect of our previously announced pricing changes become effective.

It will continue to be a very exciting time in the payments arena, and I fully believe that Visa will continue to be in a leadership position, not only in terms of growing our payment volumes and process transactions, but as importantly, driving new technologies and ways to pay as we work in concert with our issuers, acquirers, merchants, and other parties.

With that, Byron and I are ready to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Darrin Peller, Barclays.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Nice job on the quarter. Just want to touch first on what you were mentioning around FX volatility levels, as Byron, you mentioned earlier, they clearly have increased. Just to be clear, you're not including outlook? At least you're including -- are you including the levels that we've seen recently and just going forward with that, or are you including lower levels? Maybe, can you give us the size and magnitude of what impact it could mean if you were to extrapolate off the current levels of volatility for the rest of the year on your cross-border volume?

BYRON POLLITT: So we have included our forward projection of FX rates, based on the December 31 forwards. So the numbers that we quoted, the guidance that we have reaffirmed, fully reflect the most current thinking and data we have using the forward exchange rates of December 31.

CHARLIE SCHARF: With regards to volatility, which is another aspect of FX, the projection assumes some continuation of what we have seen, but we are, as I indicated in my remarks, cautious here with regards to the balance of the year, in that this is an area that is very difficult to forecast. So, clearly, a good start to the year with regards to volatility.

It is trending -- it has performed above the10-year medium, which we referred to, I believe, on our last earnings call, but this is an area that goes up and down. So it, unlike FX and its impacts on our translations, which we have projected using the December forwards throughout the year, with volatility, we are forecasting a bit closer in and taking what we believe is a conservative posture in the second half.

OPERATOR: Jason Kupferberg, Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: The strong dollar, obviously, as you highlighted, has had that negative impact on US inbound cross-border travel from some of the key international corridors. Just wanted to get your take on whether or not you think the 7% cross-border volume number through the first three weeks of January will prove to be the trough for the year, because I know you do have some easier comparisons coming up in the March and June quarters, in particular.

BYRON POLLITT: That one's really hard. We are projecting off our trending, but the dollar is continuing to strengthen and that strengthening dollar is fundamental to our forecast for the balance of the year in terms of its impact on volume and subsequent impact on revenue.

OPERATOR: David Togut, Evercore ISI.

DAVID TOGUT, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Could you provided any clarity you might have, Charlie, on the rules that are governing the opening of China's domestic payments market and when this might be material for Visa?

CHARLIE SCHARF: A couple things first. First, I just want to be clear, China is an important market for us today. We don't compete domestically for transactions, but we have very close relationships with banks in China where we issue cards that are used outside of China. So to the extent and at the appropriate time when the Chinese marketplace opens, we're not starting from ground zero relative to building relationships within China.

Relative to the timing of the open, we really, unfortunately, cannot providing additional clarity. We know what you know, which is that the Chinese government made the statement that they will allow domestic competition, that they are in the process of writing those rules, and my guess is we'll see them when you see them.

We continue to work with our Chinese partners and meet with the government. But relative to when the market will open, what the rules will look like, and how meaningful it would be, we really don't know. I would just remind you all, I know a lot of you know this fact, but when they have opened the market up in other industries, that are industries somewhat like ours, it generally takes a period of time, sometimes quite a significant period of time before it's going to become something significant for the Company.

OPERATOR: Bill Carcache, Nomura Securities.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Have you seen any notable difference in the impact of lower gas prices on affluent consumers versus the general population? Maybe on the comments that you've made about cross-border, could you address whether you're seeing early signs of more US travel abroad, given the strengthening of the US dollar yet? And if so is any of that factored into your outlook?

BYRON POLLITT: What we see -- let me take the second one first -- what we see for US travel abroad, given the strong dollar, is that it has sustained. What we haven't seen is any spike in US travel abroad, which you might hypothesize would happen given the stronger dollar. But what we've seen is a sustaining of healthy growth rates on outbound US travel.

With regards to gas and impact on affluent, as I mentioned in my remarks, gasoline spend is more debit-weighted for us than credit. We have seen very little impact on spend at the credit level, which is where you would expect more of the affluent to participate. We have seen some impact on debit, which is where you'd expect the less affluent to play in greater numbers. So, as Charlie talked about, there has been a clear, noticeable reduction in debit spend as it relates to gas in the US, a portion of which have been redistributed to other categories, but the bulk of which has been, at least for the moment, based on our surveys, being banked in the savings category.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Just keep in mind, though, the average of $60 a month, $60 a month in its own right, doesn't -- it's unlikely that people change their behavior. If you boil it down to people filling up their tanks once a week, at that point you're down to $15 a week. How are you going to go spend differently? So the places that we're seeing it, which I mentioned are the grocery stores, QSRs especially, are the types of places where you would see that kind of additional dollar amount.

But I said from our surveys we know that 50% of it is being saved. That amount of money accumulates. People start to see that they have additional money and then over a period of time will potentially by higher ticket items, is what we would anticipate.

OPERATOR: Don Fandetti, Citigroup.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit on the rollout of tokenization for online and when you think it could also roll out internationally around Apple Pay? And then lastly, have you seen increased discussions from other smartphone manufacturers and players post-Apple Pay?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. On our tokenization efforts, we are very actively working with issuers in other parts of the world and would expect to see some tokenized solutions in the marketplace this calendar year. On the topic of other people, whether it's handset manufacturers or others, there is a very, very active dialogue that's going on, that was happening, but the work that Apple has done and winding up in market with their solution, has certainly accelerating people's thinking.

We've been very, very clear relative to ourselves, which is we're very excited about what Apple is doing. We think it's a very elegant solution that we are thrilled with our participation in, but we want to enable as many scalable solutions that have wonderful customer interfaces that adhere to the highest security standards. We would expect to see a series of those in the next couple of quarters come to market.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: I just had one more on FX. How do the hedges affect next year? Do they defer some of the impact that we might have seen if you weren't hedged this year into next year? Then just one data point question. Do we know the sum total of those that are still opt outs in the merchant litigation? Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to the hedges, the answer is yes. Beginning with the month of October, which was the beginning of our fiscal year, we start doing 12-month forecasts out and start layering in hedges, 12 months out. So this is January, so the hedges we put on this month will be will cover the first -- through the end of January, we will have the hedges in place that will cover the first four months of next year's fiscal year.

And I say for better or for worse. If the dollar continues to strengthen, then the hedges will provide benefit, and if it goes the other way, the opposite. Remember, the objective here is to simply dampen, not eliminate. We are not insulated from FX. What we are trying to do with the hedges is flatten out somewhat the volatility.

I might also add that what we [solve] to in hedges is not revenue. It's actually operating income. So we hedge against certain risk tolerance levels by currency against our operating income, which means we use the expenses in other currencies as a natural hedge and then we put on transactional hedges beyond the natural hedge of the expense we incur in the non-US currencies.

OPERATOR: Moshe Katri, Cowen.

MOSHE KATRI, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Can you talk a bit about tokenization? Where are we in terms of introducing the service to banks and some of the feedback and then maybe you can talk a bit about how should we think about this looking into next year? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Those financial institutions that I referenced in my opening remarks are all using our token services for Apple Pay. As I said, we're working with another 500 or so institutions here, currently, to get them involved in Apple Pay and therefore using our tokenization service because that is a prerequisite for participating in Apple Pay. As I said before, we continue to work with issuers around the world and expect to see more tokenized solutions as time goes on. What was the second part of the question?

BYRON POLLITT: There was a second part that I didn't answer to Sanjay's question, so let me just if I could, let me just add that in real quick. The question was, I believe, how many opt outs remain in the MDL litigation? That number we don't have immediately accessible, but to be hopeful here, we think it's better to think about it in terms of the payment volume represented by the opt-outs.

Charlie told you that, to date, we have settled and actually paid out of our escrow, $335 million or so, out of an escrow that was $1.5 billion at the beginning of the fiscal year. Think of that as settling out a little over 20% of the payment volume represented by the opt-outs before these payments began.

OPERATOR: Bob Napoli, William Blair.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: I just wanted to get an update on CyberSource, if I could, and the trends in that business, what you're doing to improve that business, and maybe what competitors are you finding most difficult as far as losing market share?

BYRON POLLITT: On CyberSource, we had a good holiday season. We grew -- transactions grew at about 16%. That's up from 12% in the prior reporting period. Honestly, as we've mentioned on prior calls, we missed an investment cycle, maybe two in this product. We are rapidly reinvesting, re-platforming to enable much better client service as transactions accelerate in terms of capacity utilization.

This is a business we are very committed to. It has been an excellent vertical extension of our business model and we remain very vested in bringing the platform to world-class levels again, and to accelerate the growth rates, above which we have, even most recently, been experiencing.

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only thing -- I could just add a couple things to it. Number one is, we think about CyberSource two different ways. We think about it as a how is it doing as a standalone business and we think about how is CyberSource helping the rest of Visa?

As Byron mentioned, on the standalone business, we've been very clear that we did miss an investment cycle here. We have a very clear road map internally that both relates to customer-facing improvements such as time to onboard and things like that, as well as some infrastructure changes that we're making. That's a road map of, call it, a year or so and that's how long it will take us.

So we would expect to see some volatility from the existing client base as we go through those changes, but it's the right thing for us for the long-term. Separately from us, and this gets to the overall point for us with CyberSource, CyberSource is an extremely important part of the Company.

When we talk about leveraging merchant relationships, and we talk about wanting to build broader capabilities and things that -- conversations that we're having in the marketplace in order to do that, CyberSource is just a wonderful addition for us to be able to be a partner to either enable those conversations or to be part of those conversations. Quite frankly, for us to start from scratch, on merchant relationships is very, very different than to be able to start with a CyberSource inside the Company.

OPERATOR: Jim Schneider, Goldman Sachs.

JIM SCHNEIDER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Relative to your commentary on incentives, I believe last time you had talked about incentives being front-half loaded in the first part of the fiscal year, and today you said that you now expect them to be -- to trend upwards as you go through the year. Has something changed in terms of deals pushed out or additional deals signed? Maybe give us some color on the cadence of those incentives as you go through the year.

BYRON POLLITT: One of the things we've learned over the past seven years that we have been doing earnings calls is that incentives is very difficult to project quarter-by-quarter. We've gotten pretty good at projecting it on the full-year basis. So, with every passing quarter, we get smarter about the deals that close and the deals that are taking longer to close that we thought might close.

Nothing has occurred that has changed our outlook for the year, but we are reaffirming the lumpiness of incentives and that's really what we're seeing here. We have one quarter in the bag and three to go. We're very comfortable with our guidance of 17% (sic -- see slide 13, "17.5%) to 18.5% and we expect the three out quarters to run at a higher rate than what you saw in the recently completed Q1.

OPERATOR: Smitti Srethapramote, Morgan Stanley.

SMITTI SRETHAPRAMOTE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: At your analyst day, 1.5 years ago, you estimated that they would be 38 million mobile point-of-sale locations by 2017. Just wondering if you can give us an update in terms of how things have played out versus your initial expectations? Are there any particular geographies where you've seen acceptance increased noticeably due to MPOS?

BYRON POLLITT: That's a good question, and I had the number but I don't have it now, in terms of how many MPOS locations there are, but the number is growing extraordinarily quickly. The last number, I'm sorry -- what's that -- Canada, Australia, and other places. The numbers that I saw were, several quarters ago, actually probably it's almost a year ago, we were probably at 5 million, and I believe the number was over 10 million the last time I checked.

So the growth is happening, and in addition to just the MPOS devices out there, usage is what's extraordinarily important. So we can make sure we get you that number and next time we talk publicly, we'll make sure we mentioned it so everyone has it.

OPERATOR: Tien-tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Charlie, it sounds like you said that you can protect the bottom line if the macro deteriorates here. Can you elaborate? Was that an expense comment? And maybe can you just give us an update on the timing of the CFO search? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: On the first one, my comments are quite simple, which is the economic environment, in terms of what we're seeing with the strengthening dollar, obviously makes our jobs more difficult. The point of what I was trying to say was we are not changing our spending patterns, the projects we have underway, based upon what we're seeing in the world today.

We're not laying people off, we're not even thinking about doing anything like that. We're continuing to push forward to grow the Company because we think that's the right long-term thing for us to do given the opportunity and we think, as Byron went through, we think we'll continue to perform as a Company.

Having said that, we also just always remind ourselves that, like any Company, you can always tighten up and you can always go through and prioritize and figure out what the most important thing to do is and you really have to do every last thing. If we got particularly nervous that what we were seeing in the world would affect us in any kind of meaningful way beyond what we expected, we have the ability to do that and we're not contemplating that.

Even if we did that, we would assume we would do it in an intelligent way that still allows us to invest in the right things, so the point is if we had to and we thought it was prudent, we could reduce the expense base of the Company or certainly slow the expense growth, but not something we're contemplating doing right now. And on the CFO search, I hope we have something to report shortly on that.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane, Deutsche Bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just a couple clarifications.

Charlie, what's the strategy for rolling out tokenization for browser-based e-commerce? I was under the impression this spring you would be rolling something out. I'm just curious what the plans are there. Then secondly, Byron, on FX, just given your comments on some of the hedges and the rolling off of some hedges, should we then start modeling in a couple point impact for FY16?

Thanks so much.

CHARLIE SCHARF: On the first piece, in the spring of this year, we will have some tokenized solutions in the marketplace for some browser-enabled solutions.

BYRON POLLITT: Okay. And on the FX -- Brian, I wish I had a crystal ball, but let me relay the following circumstance, which is the dilemma. When we gave foreign exchange guidance on the fourth-quarter call, we had a full year of hedges in place. Three months later, we are saying that the interim FX developments have negatively impacted our revenue growth by about 50 basis points. So within three months of our last projection of FX, we are off 50 basis points and the year was hedged, so we are not yet ready to talk about FY16.

That said, your projection of just how strong -- how much further strengthening the US dollar can achieve, how long it can sustain at this level before the inevitable cycle goes back the other way, is as good a guess as ours will be. In terms of impact, we're using as our best proxy the December 31 forward exchange rates.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Could you talk a little bit -- you mentioned during the opening comments about the holiday spending being a little different, debit spending being affected by gasoline. Are there trends that you think that will be persisting throughout 2015? I know we've got some differences in the way tax refunds are going to be paid this year. Any other things that we should be aware of as we go through 2015, particularly in the US, and keeping that stuff in mind?

CHARLIE SCHARF: We spend a lot of time tearing apart everything that we can find about the holiday spend numbers. The things I talked about were the most important for us, isolating the conversion so you get a real underlying view of spend. We've talked about the impact of gas and what we would expect to be the ongoing impact of gas.

The only thing which we didn't cover here, which we spend a lot of time talking about, is e-commerce volume. E-commerce was extraordinarily strong during the holiday season, which is a continuation of what we've seen. Growth rates of e-commerce were 2 to 3 times what they were in the physical world. For us, we like that because cash doesn't work in the online world and so we've got a much higher participation rate in the e-commerce world than we do in the face-to-face world. Other than that, nothing is coming to mind, Moshe.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, Autonomous.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: First, could you give us a little bit of commentary on the impact that pricing changes that we've seen reported by the acquirers will contribute to your guidance on revenue growth? And secondly, we've seen EMVCo produce a draft of 3DS 2.0 based on Visa and MasterCard's work, indicating that you'll be able to take additional authentication metrics into account starting at the beginning of 2016. Does this also means that we'll get a cardholder present-like interchange tier show up at that time as well?

Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me take the first one. As we described on our fourth-quarter call, we have a number of price adjustments that will take place in the second half, US acquiring card service fees in April, roughly 2 basis points, about 40 basis points on US acquiring ISA again in that April time frame. These get phased in, so no impact in fiscal Q2, a beginning impact in fiscal Q3, full impact in Q4.

So as you think about modeling it on a fiscal year basis, we would expect our lowest revenue growth rate to be in the upcoming Q2, and then as the price adjustments start to kick in, building in Q3, and then by Q4 having an impact that would bring us to double-digit revenue growth in fiscal Q4. Put that all together and we are still reaffirming the guidance we gave in Q4 for the full year, but today, largely because of FX, at the lower end of that range.

CHARLIE SCHARF: On your second question, I wouldn't relate those two dates, the work we are doing on 3-D secure and re-looking at the rates. As we said, as with tokenized solutions being in the marketplace, we are constantly looking at what makes sense, constantly looking at the fraud, looking at the value-added, and if it makes sense for us at some point to do something different with interchange rates, we will do it, but right now, we have no specific plans to talk about.

OPERATOR: Tim Willi, Wells Fargo.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Charlie, just going back to your comments around the class action and starting to settle with those that opted out, et cetera, any comments you would have just around the tone of collaboration with yourself and the retailers, as we come to the end of this, and just tying that into anything, Byron, we should think about maybe longer-term around rebates and incentives in the mix that would move more towards retailers versus banks, if there's anything we should consider there?

CHARLIE SCHARF: On the first piece, listen, it was -- our relationships with merchants, as we've said, are extraordinarily important to us. Being able to settle these lawsuits is a good thing. It puts that conversation behind us and it is an opportunity to talk about things that we can do together. The most obvious thing that I can talk about is Visa Checkout.

The idea of merchants advertising alongside us, promoting something, isn't something that would even have been contemplated a couple years ago. They're doing it because -- not because they like us as people, they're doing it because we have a product which they believe is good for them. When you're buying something in the e-commerce space, you put something in the cart to check out, what you want as a retailer is you want someone to actually pay for that.

For us to be up to bring a solution to market, which has a much higher close rate, which is easy to use, where we can leverage our brand jointly, and ultimately, by the way, bring new customers to them, is something that excites them. So those are the kinds of conversations that are very different, that we're able to have today.

Not everyone is in that bucket, but that's the way we're thinking about it. We would like to have that kind of partnership with everyone, and as I said before, that is something that's going to play out over a long period of time. We know we have to prove to merchants that we can show up with solutions that are better for them, as I went through the Visa Checkout.

As we announced a quarter or two ago with something called Visa Transaction Advisors, where we've now turned our fraud and analytics talents towards helping oil companies reduce fraud at the fuel pumps through risk scoring that we do on a real-time basis for them. So, I would describe at it as it's encouraging but it's a long-term discussion where that have to be proof points in the marketplace and you'll start seeing them over a period of time.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to incentives, Tim, the main action as it relates to incentives doesn't really today -- it has little to do with MDL and much more to do with Dodd-Frank in debit related to routing. That said, going forward, as we increasingly introduce new product initiatives, new services, and where we want to accelerate trial and adoption, we're prepared to put some incentives on the table to help prime the pump, and as a way of crafting a smart market entry using the merchants as a launch partner for services that will be good for the network and all its participants.

JACK CARSKY: With that, we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Lisa Ellis, Bernstein.

LISA ELLIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Charlie, I just wanted to follow up on the point you made on e-commerce. First, could you give an update on the mix of revenue or volume you're seeing through the e-commerce channel and the card mix as well? And then second question is about the Fed strategy paper on approving the US payment system that was released on Monday. I'd love just your thoughts on that, the level of involvement or engagement you guys have had with the Fed and how you see it impacting your business?

CHARLIE SCHARF: So on the first don't have a little color. We've not released numbers like that, either by product or exactly what the mix is, but obviously, we've given you what the relative growth rates are and so hopefully that's helpful. On the Fed paper, first of all, we are very actively involved with the Fed as many others are. We participate in the dialogue that they have, that have had up to this point, leading up to the paper that they just released and our experience has been that they've been extremely inclusive with all partners, seeking input.

I would say, in terms of what it means for us, I don't think any of us exactly know and that will play itself out. What we do know is that we have a network that works extraordinarily well, that provides great value for people that run transactions over it, and a lot of what we do isn't easily duplicated. It's one thing to say that you're going to build something; it's another thing to actually get it in the marketplace with the ability to put value-added services around it.

The people that participate in our network, the four parties, get paid for it or they get benefits from it and they do it because they actually get those things out of it. So there's some very natural reasons why networks like ours and our competitors are attractive in the marketplace out there, whether you are an issuer or whether you are an acceptor of the products.

As we've talked about, what we spend our time -- I don't want to underestimate the importance of running the network well, we spend a lot of time making sure that, that's the case. We spend a lot of time on network security. But we spend even more time building value-added products around it. The idea is that you run a transaction over the Visa network and there's more value to you because of either services we provide, whether it's on a risk basis, whether it's things that can help you grow your revenues.

We're working on a series of things now that you'll start to see in the marketplace. So again, over a period of time, if people have a choice where to run their transaction over it, we're not going to sit here and say, well we just have a really good network so you should run it over ours. We want to give both merchants, issuers, and consumers ultimately reasons to want to use our network as opposed to any other solution out there.

JACK CARSKY: With that, we want to thank everybody for joining us today. If anyone has any follow-up questions, feel free to give Victoria or myself a call. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150131eb1t009c8
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  Visa  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,779 words
   PD
29 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal quarter four earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of today's call. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thanks, Charles. Good after, everyone, and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal fourth-quarter and full-year 2014 earnings conference call. With us today are the are Charlie Scharf, Visa's CEO; and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the Internet. It can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing financial and statistical highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call, as well.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could materially differ as a result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recently reports of Forms 10-K and Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and Investor Relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro-forma-related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Reg G of the SEC, are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release. The press release can also be accessed through the IR section of our website.

And with that I'll turn the call over to Brian.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Turn it over to who?

JACK CARSKY: I can't believe I said that. Byron.

BYRON POLLITT: Thanks, Jack. Let me begin with my usual call outs and observations. First, as you can see from our earnings press release, we reported the quarter on an adjusted basis, based on the litigation accrual we took in the wake of the $450-million escrow deposit we made in late September.

As a reminder, this litigation provision is covered by a retrospective responsibility plan. The $450-million additional litigation accrual has been estimated off of recently completed settlements with selected opt-out merchants, representing approximately 3% of the total opt-out merchants based on sales volume, as well as the status of negotiations and discussions with other opt-out merchants. Excluding this litigation accrual, we reported adjusted diluted earnings-per-share of $2.18.

In addition, consistent with past practice, the Company's funding of the $450-million litigation escrow deposit had the same effect as the share repurchase. As it reduced the class B share conversion ratio by an amount equivalent to buying back $2.1 million Class A equivalent shares at $215 per share. As a result, at the end of the fiscal year, we had 618 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding on an as-converted basis.

We continued to experience solid, constant-dollar payment volume growth in the low double-digit range, both in the US and internationally. US credit continued to strongly perform, led in large part by Chase portfolio conversions. That said, looking ahead to FY15, our near-term outlook remains cautious, given the modest pace of economic recovery, the geopolitical situation, Ebola, low currency volatility, and continued FX headwinds from a very strong US dollar.

Turning to revenue, as expected and previewed on our call last quarter, revenue growth for the fiscal fourth quarter rebounded, growing 10% year over year on a constant-dollar basis, or 9% nominally, which reflects about 1.5 percentage points of FX headwind in the quarter. For the full fiscal year, revenue growth was 10% on a constant-dollar basis, and 8% nominally, recognizing close to 2 percentage points of FX headwind for the entire fiscal year.

A word on international transaction revenue, revenue growth for the quarter was 4% compared to 9% nominal growth in the cross-border payment volume. The difference can be explained by the continuation of historically low currency volatility discussed last quarter. That said, we saw an uptick in volatility across a basket of currencies in September, which continued into October. While we remain cautious in projecting this metric, results in September and October are encouraging.

Client incentives for the fiscal fourth quarter came in at 19.2%, putting us right on target with our full-year guidance of around 17%. As we telegraphed on last-quarter's call, the elevated level of incentives was the result of key renewals in Canada and CEMEA, which completed in fiscal Q4. I'll speak to FY15 in a moment.

Lastly, as always, we remain confident in our future-growth prospects and fully committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders. To this end, in Q4, we committed $1.2 billion to reduce the number of Class-A equivalent shares by $5.7 million at an average price of $213. This was accomplished through open-market purchases and as noted earlier, a deposit of $450 million in the Company's litigation escrow account.

Further, our Board approved in October a new $5-billion share repurchase authorization, that in combination with the $682 million remaining from the prior authorization, gives us $5.7 billion to deploy in the coming quarters. We also recently announced a 20% increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.40 to $0.48 per share. This level of increase is consistent with our previously stated objective of a 20% payout of the previous fiscal year's net income, or in this case, adjusted net income.

Now let's turn to payment volume and transaction growth. Global payment volume growth for the September quarter in constant-dollars was 11%, slightly down from the June quarter. The US grew 10% and international grew 13%. Drilling down further, for the September quarter, US credit was 13%, slightly higher than the 12% in Q3, in part due to Chase conversion activity. Through October 21, US credit improved to 15% growth.

US debit was 7% in Q4, a 1 percentage point down shift compared to Q3. Through October 21, US debit is back up at 8% growth. Taken together, US payment volume growth through October 21 was 11%, up 1 percentage point from the Q4 level.

Global cross-border volume delivered a 10% constant-dollar growth rate in the September quarter, up nicely from 7% in the June quarter. The increase was attributable to stronger activity across a broader set of travel corridors, with some effect from the timing of Ramadan. Notably there was a nice pickup in travel to the EU from the Middle East, China, and Australia; the US grew at 7% and international grew at 11%. Through October 21, cross-border volume on a constant-dollar basis held steady at 10% growth, with US growth at 6%, and international registering 11% growth. Underperforming travel corridors include several countries in Latin America, along with Russia and Ukraine.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled $16.9 billion in the fiscal fourth quarter, a 9% increase over the prior year. The US grew 8%, while international delivered 14% growth.

Through October 21, processed transaction growth improved to an 11% growth rate, up 2 percentage points. The US grew 9%, while international grew 15%.

Now, turning to the income statement, net operating revenue in the quarter was $3.22 billion, a 9% increase year over year, driven primarily by growth in service and data processing globally, and as mentioned earlier, negatively impacted by about 1.5 percentage points of foreign currency headwind. For the full fiscal year, net operating revenue was 8% over the prior year, or growth of 10% on a constant-currency basis.

Moving to the individual line items for the fiscal fourth quarter, service revenue was $1.5 billion, up 8% over the prior year, and was driven by moderating global payment volume growth. Data processing revenue was $1.3 billion, up 14% over the prior-year's quarter, based on solid growth rates in Visa processed transactions both in the US and internationally.

The delta between the quarter's 9% processed transaction growth and the 14% revenue growth was largely due to higher year-over-year growth in US debit fees implemented in 2012. Of the delta, approximately one-quarter was due to lapping a one-time refund of an overpayment in Q4 of the prior year. The balance is ongoing, as this fee structure stabilizes after having been implemented two years ago.

As highlighted earlier, international transaction revenue was up 4% to $938 million, versus 10% constant-dollar cross-border volume growth over the prior-year period, as a result of a broad range of currencies experiencing volatility well below the 10-year medium, in contrast to the year-ago quarter when volatility was near record highs. We are hopeful for a return to a more normalized volatility pattern in the coming quarters.

Turning to other revenue, it showed a slight uptick in the quarter, reflecting a true-up of the Visa Europe licensing fee, some of which was catch up. Initially, the licensing fee was $142.5 million annually. The annual rate for FY15 will be around $148 million.

Excluding the litigation provision, total operating expenses for the quarter were $1.2 billion, flat from the prior year. For the full fiscal year, adjusted operating expenses were also flat to FY13. Adjusted operating margin was 62% for the fourth quarter, and 64% for the full fiscal year, both in line with our guidance of low to mid-60s. Capital expenditures were $227 million in the quarter and $553 million for the full fiscal year. The weighted average number of fully diluted shares outstanding for the quarter totaled $623 million and $631 million for the full fiscal year.

Before I speak to specific items of guidance, let me provide some early perspective on how we see the timeline of fiscal full year 2015 playing out. We approach 2015 bullish on the long term, given the underlying strength in payment volumes and process transactions, and cautious in the short term. Here's some of the underlying observations and assumptions informing our planning for next year.

First, while we expect US and international payment volume growth to remain healthy, we have not yet seen acceleration in global economic growth. Cross-border volumes are rebounding, as we reported 10% growth in the quarter, but this is still below the low double-digit levels we experienced at this point last year. And so we remain appropriately conservative in positioning this metric.

As perspective, we know that these growth rates can recover without notice, and that the notable declines in Latin American growth rates lap in January of 2015, and the market declines related to the Russian-Ukraine crisis will lap in March. Everything else equal, once these events anniversary, the pick up in cross-border growth could be in the 2 to 3 percentage-point range. As to currency volatility, as I said earlier, while we have seen a bounce in September and October, we are not sure how sustainable this is.

Turning to a different subject, we will be taking selected pricing actions commencing in April of 2015 on certain US acquirer fees, which will result in higher revenue growth in the second half of our fiscal year. Given that we have not taken actions in this area in four years, we believe the length of time and the substantial value these cross-border transactions bring to merchants make a modest adjustment appropriate.

In addition, based on recently completed significant client renewals that Charlie will speak to in a moment, as well as the successful growth in client payment volumes for both issuers and merchants, we will see higher levels of client incentives as measured by percent of gross revenues, with the highest percentage levels expected in the first half of the year. In dollar terms, quarterly incentives in FY15 should be more indicative of the $700-million plus level seen in fiscal Q4. Finally, consistent with past practice, we expect to deploy our excess cash flow in 2015 to service our recently increased dividend and to continue to repurchase our shares.

To sum up, in terms of guidance for FY15, we are contemplating constant-dollar revenue growth of low double digits, with 2 percentage points of negative foreign currency impact. Absent any catalysts, we see our constant-currency growth today at the very low end of the double-digit range.

As previously stated, our guidance contemplates several pricing actions to be effective at the beginning of fiscal Q3. This means our year-over-year revenue growth rates are expected to be double-digit in the second half and in the mid-single digit range in the first two quarters, as we lap low levels in incentives in the prior year.

Turning to client incentives, as a percentage of gross revenues, we expect it to be in a range of 17.5% to 18.5%. Operating margin in the mid-60%s. Full-year tax rate in the low 30%s. On tax, as a reminder, when viewed quarterly on a year-over-year basis, the tax rate in Q2 of FY14 was significantly reduced due to a tax benefit recognized under IRS code Section 199 that included prior years, along with an ongoing benefit. Turning to earnings per share, on an adjusted basis, mid-teen growth and annual free cash flow in excess of $6 billion.

Lastly, and before I hand the call over to Charlie, I wanted to address the topic of cross-border growth. In my conversations with analysts and investors, there have been a number of questions raised regarding our cross-border volume growth rates. In that light, on a one-time basis, we thought it would be useful to provide some incremental perspective, which we have included on page 3 of the appendix of our PowerPoint presentation.

During our earnings report out each quarter, Visa includes in its operational performance package, it's cross-border volume growth rates on both a nominal and constant basis, excluding Europe. The first two columns show what we have historically reported in the operational performance data pack. The third column is new and represents a global view of Visa, including Europe on a nominal basis to facilitate competitive comparisons across a common geographic footprint. The next two columns also include Visa Europe, and present cross-border growth rates, recognizing there are at least two different methods for calculating those growth rates, which can have very different outcomes.

When Visa historically measures and reports cross-border growth and constant currency, it uses the year-over-year change in exchange rates for the country currency in which the merchant transaction took place. Those growth rates are presented in the fourth column, labeled Merchant Current Country.

Alternatively, one could also calculate cross-border growth rates using the currency representing the country in which the issuer resides. Those cross-border growth rates are presented in the fifth column labeled Issuing Country. Of course, other factors can also impact growth rates, such as relative portfolio exposure to different countries and their currencies, the method for selecting FX rates and translating back to the US dollar, and share shifts. But those are much harder to isolate and quantify.

Recognizing the complexity of this topic, in addition to the one-time slide, we have provided an illustrative example of a cross-border transaction and the effect it can have on growth rates, depending on the underlying methodology employed. You will be able to find it on our IR website, located with the other earnings-related materials, and that will be posted at the immediate conclusion of this call. We will then be available for follow-up conversations if you would like further explanation.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA INC.: Thank you very much, Byron, and good afternoon, everyone. First, I thought I'd start with just a couple of brief thoughts on the our fiscal fourth quarter.

As Byron went through, our performance came in pretty much as we would have expected. Adjusted earnings per share growth this quarter of 17% and 19% for the full year. As we think about it, it's actually gratifying, given the continued subdued economic environment globally and the volatile geopolitical environment, which do affect our business. It says a great deal about the business itself and the Company that we're lucky to be able to be a part of here.

Revenue growth continued to be constrained by the strong dollar, the low currency volatility compared with historical norms, and cross-border growth below historical levels. As Byron mentioned, we believe that these items that have constrained our revenue growth are cyclical and can change very quickly. More importantly, we really spend most of our time looking at the underlying fundamentals of the business, and they continue to perform very well.

In constant dollars our double-digit payment volume growth with particular strength in the US, in addition to double-digit cross-border payment growth. Process transaction growth was strong as well, and as Byron mentioned, these trends improved slightly in October through the 21st. Beyond our data through the 21st, our ability to see the future is the same as yours, but we're cautious about the global growth as we plan for next year.

Just a couple of comments about capital now. We've been very consistent as a Company in how we think about capital allocation. We continue to believe the highest and the best use of our excess capital to is to reinvest it, both organically and through acquisitions to further our growth. After that, we believe in growing our dividend as our earnings grow and maintaining a payout ratio of about 20% of our trailing earnings, and we will opportunistically return the rest of our excess capital through share repurchases.

In 2014, we did all of these things, investing both organically in the business, outside investments. As Byron mentioned, we effectively bought back $4.6 billion of our stock during the year. And as we look forward, we remain committed to continuing our practices.

Last week, our Board approved a 20%-dividend increase from $0.40 to $0.48 a share per quarter, and they also approved a new $5-billion share repurchase program, in addition to the roughly $680 million remaining from the prior authorization. Given the opportunities in the payment space, we will continue to look for and prioritize growth opportunities, but our Board's actions should give you an indication of how we feel about our opportunities to grow in the future.

Let me talk for a second about Russia. Russia continues to move towards its goal of controlling domestic processing. Last Tuesday, President Putin signed modifications to the national payment system law, which positions the Russian Central Bank-owned national payment card system as the preferred domestic payment processor. The law delayed the implementation of the guaranteed deposit from the end of October 2014 to March 31, 2015 to allow for an appropriate transition.

And when the national payment card system is utilized, there is no guaranteed deposit requirement. We're working closely with the government and our clients to ensure a smooth transition. We continue to expect to lose a portion of our domestic processing revenues in FY15 of about $50 million. This is likely to grow up to about $70 million on a full-year basis when fully implemented. We continue to believe we'll play an important role in Russia. Once this transition occurs and our baseline is reset, we will continue to focus on helping our clients grow both domestically and internationally.

And with that, I will talk for a second about our client franchise and just talk about some of our most significant markets, especially some of the things which do create lumpiness in our incentives as we look forward into 2015. First, let me start with Russia. We continue to work with our clients to support their businesses. We recently signed multi-year agreements with several Russian banks, including SPURT Bank, by far the largest issuing bank in Russia.

In the United States, we continue to have great success. We renewed a multi-year credit and debit agreement with the Bank of America, our second largest client globally. To put this into perspective, if BofA were a country, it would be one of the largest in the world for Visa. Our agreement provides the opportunity to grow our share from our prior agreement, and we're thrilled with the relationship we have with the Bank America.

And remember when we signed our ten-year agreement with JPMorgan Chase, they agreed to move the majority of their non-Visa volume to Visa. These conversions have begun and are going extremely well.

Per Nielsen, total expected volume to convert has been estimated at over $40 billion. It's a bit less than 10 million cards overall, and the conversions are expected to be completed by February 2015.

In the US credit market, we continue to gain share, and remember, this is the largest driver of our profit in the world. Canada is one of our other large countries. Over the past two years, we've signed long-term contracts with issuers and partners, representing over 85% of our business, including Scotia, CIBC, RBC, TD, and Aeroplan. Visa's Canadian issuers have invested heavily in new rewards programs for Canadian consumers, driving very strong growth, and we benefit from these great partnership that we have.

Brazil is a complicated market for us, given the elections and the recently implemented cross-border taxes, but we continue to grow our relationships there as well. We renewed a multi-year credit and debit and commercial agreement with [Kasha], the fifth largest issuer, and we renewed a multi-year credit, debit, and prepaid agreement with Banco de Brasil, our largest issuer in Brazil and the Latin American region.

Just a second on co-brands, which seem to be getting a lot of press these days. First, just as a reminder, we think we have the best and we have the largest co-brand platform in the world, with 7 of the top 10 programs exclusively Visa and great partners outside of the US as well.

This quarter, we renewed a multi-year credit agreement with The Gap. We'll continue to be the payment brand and network for The Gap, Banana Republic, and Old Navy co-brand cards, and our partnership with Gap extends beyond the retail-store environment. Websites for the Gap and its family brands are now offering Visa Checkout as an online payment service.

In addition to the deals that we've announced today, we've agreed to terms to move a significant consumer credit co-brand from a competitor to Visa. We look forward to sharing more about this as cardholder plans take shape.

And we've talked a bunch about bringing new capabilities to market for merchants, and in addition to what we are doing in Visa Checkout, we are continuing to start to roll-out products for the merchants. Last quarter, we forged a proprietary relationship with TrialPay and had a small team from TrialPay join Visa to lead the development of a new product platform designed to help our merchants acquire more customers and sales opportunities.

TrialPay is one of the leaders in presenting consumers relevant merchant offers during a transaction, and we're using their technology and experience, together with all of the capabilities that exist at Visa, to build a platform that will drive millions of new customers to our merchant clients. You'll be hearing more about this in the coming months.

We rolled out a new product called Visa Transaction Advisors in August. It's a new solution which helps US-fueled retailers prevent credit and debit fraud at the pump. This service enables merchants to use realtime authorization risk scores to identify transactions that can involve lost, stolen, or counterfeit cards.

More than 65 million transactions per month are being reviewed by the service at 25,000 locations across the US. Some merchants have seen a 23% reduction in fraud at participating locations. Merchants using the service include top US brands such as Shell and Chevron. These are just the beginning of our focus on directing our capabilities towards merchants.

To say a few words about payment security and US chip cards, at this point, most people understand most of the benefits that we get from moving from magstripe towards chip-enabled cards, but there are also some important un-appreciated benefits, just one I want to highlight. The approval rates, and again, this is in the US, of chip cards versus magstripe are 97.9% for chip cards, versus 92% for magstripe on cross-border and 99.2% for chip cards versus 98.4% in domestic transactions.

Today only 3.6 million terminals at 55,000 locations accept chip cards.19.8 million Visa cards are in circulation, up from 56% -- up 56% from 12.7 million, but still a very small number relative to the total cards that are outstanding. Having said that, we assume most people have read issuers, acquirers, and merchants are working diligently to increase these numbers dramatically.

The Payment Security Task Force that we participate on with a series of other people in the industry put out a press release that said that acquirers representing 80% of US purchase volume estimate that at least 40% of US merchant terminals will be chip-enabled by the end of 2015. The group also reported that nine of the country's largest payment issuers estimated that they would issue more than 575 million chip-enabled cards by the end of 2015. There are also estimates that over 90% of cards will be chip-enabled by the end of 2017.

Turn for a second and just talk about our digital efforts, which are a huge focus for us inside the Company. This quarter, you've started to see some tangible progress, as we have begun to introduce new digital solutions into the marketplace. First, a reminder that online purchase transactions for us are 19% of our business today. And also that in the US, online tablet and mobile purchases are growing at high double-digit to triple-digit rates versus a face-to-face rate of single digits. We are aggressively pursuing this market with the expectation of growing our share.

You've seen several things to support this: Visa Checkout, Visa Token Services, Visa Digital Services, and Apple Pay. First, let me talk about Visa Checkout. Remember, this is our solution which enables you to pay online in a very simple, secure way with a username and password. It's easy and secure for consumers, and it's a terrific solution for merchants. It's easy to integrate, and it's been proven that it increases the checkout flow rate for merchants.

We continue to make great progress. We've passed 1.9 million registered users, over 200 financial institutions are partnering with us to roll this out to their clients, and merchant reaction has been terrific. Merchants live today include Neiman Marcus, Pizza Hut, Staples, 1-800-Flowers, Ticketmaster, Live Nation, Lululemon, Petco and PopSugar. Other new merchants who are live include The Gap and it's brands, Tory Burch, Gymboree, Crutchfield, and Orbitz. And more who have signed but have not yet gone live include United, Virgin America, and American Apparel.

Hopefully, many of you have seen the advertising, both in traditional media as well as digital and social, with great partners such as Pizza Hut, Neiman Marcus, Newegg, and Staples. We intend to win, and the love the fact that we're partnering with merchants to drive Visa Checkout as a preferred solution in online commerce. To increase our reach and scale, we also integrated two partners, 3Dcart and ProPay, that provide access to a combined total of over 100,000 merchants. In addition, our merchant-acquired partners such as First Aid and [tesis] are integrating Visa Checkout for both their core platform and subsidiaries.

As we evaluate our progress, we're focused on addressable online volume, not the number of merchants, and are very happy with our progress. To date, over $333 billion in live-addressable volume accepts Visa Checkout; another $30 billion has been signed; and we're very confident that these numbers will be much larger as we get to the end of 2015.

In early September, we announced launch of Visa Token Services. We've talked about this a bunch, so I won't dwell on it, but it enables all Visa clients to offer their cardholders a secure and easy way to pay for mobile and online transactions. As well as it enables new forms of payment, which are more secure than exist today. Apple Pay is the first use case in the market, but many more will follow.

More broadly, we're excited about Apple Pay, but for us as we think about what's going to be coming into the marketplace, it's only the beginning. We expect a proliferation of exciting mobile and digital solutions leveraging our new capabilities.

In October we launched our sandbox development and testing environment for Visa Digital Services, as well as updated our SDKs that will enable issuers to begin embedding and new forms of contactless payments in their Android applications. Eventually, merchants and approved third parties will be able to harness the safety and security of Visa payments to create new proximity payment experiences for their users. These services will be commercially available in the US in January of 2015. Clients have already begun integrating to our development environment and are building and testing their applications in advance of our full commercial launch in 2015.

And as far as Apple Pay, goes just a couple quick comments: we're excited about our participation. We believe it's good for consumers, it's good for merchants, and it's good for our industry. Our focus has been on security, scalability, and inclusiveness. To the last point, we're working with over 1,000 financial institutions today and hope to see all of our issuers participate.

On Monday, Tim Cook announced that over 1 million cards had been loaded to iPhone 6s in the first 72 hours. Visa represent over 600,000 of those request, early days but very encouraging.

And then just a note about for us to be able to deliver all of these differentiated services in the marketplace, we continue to build our engineering and technology capabilities. To that end, we announced that we planned to add 1,000 technologists and engineers in the US. This is in addition to the thousand that we will be hiring into a new facility in India, which will open in 2015.

And just to wrap it up before we open it up for questions, let me just say a couple of other things here. There's been much talk about disruption in payments and what it means for us. Most of the disruptors are great enablers for consumers, merchants, and our industry. Apple is the first great example. We and our clients can be great enablers of great consumer and merchant experiences. We bring thousands of banks, millions of customers; and the convenience, security, customer service rewards, and other great features that consumers like. You'll see many other enablers evolve that we will partner with, and we're doing this all in support of our existing clients.

And as we look to the future, we continue to see great growth opportunities for payments. We have our traditional channels and the traditional ways of doing business, but we sit here today and we see the mobile opportunities in both the developing, the less developed, and the developed world as being great drivers of our mission, P2P, commercial, and our merchant relationships, as all things that we're going to focus on and continue to build our business.

And with that, operator, I think Byron and I are ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Jim Schneider, Goldman Sachs.

JIM SCHNEIDER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question.

With regard to client incentives, you talked about those being first-half weighted in FY15. Can you talk about how many of your Top 10 issuing clients are renewing this year? And do you expect all those renewals to happen in the first half of the year, given the front-loading that you talked about earlier?

BYRON POLLITT: Byron here.

So of the Top 10, I would say one is scheduled to renew this year. And the front-end loading is really a function of two things, and it's not what you just described. It's really a function of the deals that we most recently completed. We had a heavy deal flow that came to completion in Q4. And then will begin working their way through the FY15.

But also as we've commented on many times before, incentives can be very lumpy in the way that they unfold. And so in the way that the deals were executed, we expect a front-end loading of incentives with regards to the P&L. And then the guidance that we have given on a full-year basis fully contemplates the lumpiness, so to speak. And we expect to deliver full-year incentives somewhere in the 17.5% to 18.5% range.

JIM SCHNEIDER: Thank you.

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only thing, this is Charlie, that I would add is that also keep in mind that client contracts sometimes renew off cycle. And that's contemplated in our guidance as well.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, Autonomous.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Hello, thanks.

Two questions. First, if you could comment on the apparent announcement out of the Chinese government this morning that they're going to move to open up that market for additional settlement clearing that works for bank cards.

Secondly, a technical question on Apple Pay. We've noticed that American Express is able to provide realtime transaction alerts. Whether these are Apple Pay transactions or any other swipe, you're always getting an alert. On Chase transactions, which you've provided a bespoke version of Visa, they don't seem able to provide this service. It would seem that Chase is not fulfilling the promise of that transaction that you had entered into with them. Or am I missing something? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me do the second part first.

So first of all, just to be clear, when you complete an Apple Pay transaction, there is immediate notification on the device itself that shows you that the transaction has taken place, the dollar amount, and who the merchant is. You can then effectively flip the card over and see the running tally of all of your transactions. So at least from our experience and my personal experience, there's no lack of clarity whether or not you've completed transactions; and it is very realtime.

The question about whether people are then providing additional alerts on top of that, first, that you've got to talk to your individual bank about. We offer a service, which we provide to a series of banks out there that do allow for realtime alerts. I can tell you I personally signed up for it. And I get it on as a realtime a basis as you can expect. But different banks choose what they want their consumer experiences to be. But having said that, again, it exists in real time on the Apple device.

As far as China goes, there's really not a lot more to talk about than what you've read, which, for those who haven't read it, there was an announcement today that the Chinese government will open up the market to competition in our business. We don't know anything specific other than that. We obviously welcome it. And we look forward to seeing the specific details and working with people within China to figure out what we need to do to participate in that marketplace, where we believe we can add a lot of value.

OPERATOR: Darrin Peller, Barclays.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks.

Following a year where revenue growth ended up being a little more challenged than expected, given some of the cross-border trends being slower, it's obviously nice to see the end of the year pickup in those trends. But following up on the guidance, if you can help us understand the assumptions you're making around a couple of different attributes, including volume growth versus the way it's trending in October. As well as what part of this is from pricing, just because we're getting a lot of questions on how much pricing could actually impact the overall top-line guidance of low double digits. Thanks, guys.

BYRON POLLITT: The headwinds that we had this past year, many of them still continue into this year. Currency volatility, we didn't actually expect to guide to 2 full percentage points of FX headwind a second year running. But particularly, the strengthening of the US dollar over the past two months has now made that much more likely. We were thrilled to see cross-border beginning to bounce back, but it's too early to call that a trend.

With regard to volume, it's based on low single-digit, constant-dollar growth in volume gains, low double-digit. Double-digit. And with regard to pricing, it's not our practice to go into the details of pricing. But we have guided that it will take place in beginning of Q3. So this is very much second-half weighted. And we also indicated in our guidance that with that pricing boost, to be in double-digit revenue growth in the second half of the fiscal year.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me just pick up on that. As you've heard from both of us, we know what we know. We don't know what we don't know. But we look at what's going on in the world; and as we plan the Company for next year, we have a cautious point of view of that.

And so our cautious point of view suggests that we don't plan for very big increases in things driven by what's going on in the outside world. Albeit, we know that they will improve at some point. We don't know when, but we think it's prudent to plan otherwise.

OPERATOR: Dan Perlin, RBC Capital.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good afternoon.

I wanted to follow back up, Charlie, on your 19% online -- I guess it's volume or revenue. I need to get clarification on that. But the question really is that sounds like that piece of business is growing somewhere around three times faster than what you referred to as the face-to-face business.

And I'm just wondering if you could give some sort of characteristics around how should we be thinking about revenue yields or all the products that you're going to be able to put around that type of volume. It sounds like there's more pricing opportunities in the future with those types of transactions than maybe what we've seen on a legacy basis.

And just for level setting, Byron, is it $9.07 plus the mid-teens that's the guided number? Or are we adjusting for the second-quarter last year benefit? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: On the first piece, again, what I referenced in my remarks was really to talk about two different things. Number one is we have a big business in the online world today. And the way we think about it is we've been remarkably successful in a world where we haven't had great products to compete. We also stand back and we look at the growth. And the growth rates of transactions done online, on tablets and on mobile, are multiples of what's done face-to-face.

So we both have a defensive reason to do it but, more importantly, an offensive reason to help that migration and to participate in it. So the things that we're doing from Visa Checkout to Apple Pay to the things that are going to be using our Token Services and our Digital Solutions are all about having the best products in the marketplace to capture where the growth is, which is in the digital channels.

Relative to what it means for us from a pricing perspective, again, we've been very, very consistent on this. Which is we're not sitting here today thinking about this as an opportunity to capture more price. We're looking at this as an opportunity, one, to both be where the natural growth is. But, two, to help migrate all those cash transactions, whether they're big-value transactions or small-value transactions, into the electronic space where we will hopefully capture more than our fair share.

We do have a pricing schedule for our tokenization services. We've said we're waving those fees for a year. And we're going to see how this all plays itself out.

But again, we look at this as this is the future of commerce. We want to be there. We see that there'll be more volume in that world than there is for us sitting in the world that we are today. And if we make this up on volume as opposed to price, that's just fine with us. If there are pricing opportunities in the future, we won't look the other way. But that's not our reason to do this.

CRAIG MAURER: And to your second question, Dan, the short answer is $9.07. And the perspective is, you were with us at the very beginning when we did our IPO. From the very beginning, part of our investment thesis was that we would manage down the tax rate every single year to the best that we could.

We started out at 41%; we said we'd manage it down to below 34%-35% over about five years. We didn't stop at 5%. We have continued to manage our tax rate. We have never adjusted or provided any EPS guidance that adjusted for a full-year tax rate, because that's just one of the levers we have to manage the business. And we will continue to do so. So it's mid-teens off of $9.07.

DAN PERLIN: Excellent. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Don Fandetti, Citigroup.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Charlie, I was just curious your thoughts on the US market. We're seeing some of your large bank issuers put up some loan growth. Consumer confidence has picked up, but we're not really seeing it in the spend. I was curious on your outlook and just wanted to confirm that there's no real improvement baked into guidance in the US.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Well, again, Byron walked through some of the recent trends. Our performance in the US credit market is strong. But we don't look at it as -- let me say it differently. It's certainly in a really good performing economy, should look much better than it looks today. And we've not factored that into our thinking for next year.

DON FANDETTI: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: Thank you.

I've got a question on client incentives. Understanding that you had a big renewal in 2015, but how should we think about its trajectory looking ahead to 2016 and 2017? Are there any other large renewals coming up?

And then just one clarification on the assumptions embedded in the guidance. Currency volatility, as it stands right now, is that a tailwind in 2015? And are you assuming no tailwind? Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to client incentives -- in fact, going all the way back to the IPO -- we have always viewed client incentives on an upward trajectory, recognizing that the typical client contract is five years. And that when a client contract comes up for renewal, and if they have been successful, as most are, nearly all are, in growing their portfolios, then the level of incentive adjusts to a higher level, recognizing the growth over the previous five years or whatever the term was. And that's the way the business has worked forever.

In addition, client incentives back at the IPO were much more a developed market phenomena. And as the rest of the international group of countries have grown, we have applied client incentives more regularly to those multi-year contracts. And so there is a natural and healthy and expected upward trajectory in client incentives, and so that's what you're seeing.

And it's to the extent that we have one big renewal next year, or this fiscal year, that's not driving it. What's driving it is what I just described.

CHARLIE SCHARF: It drives the lumpiness, but not that trajectory.

BYRON POLLITT: That's very fair. It drives the lumpiness but not the upward trajectory.

And then I'm sorry, your second question was --

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Currency volatility.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, so, on currency volatility --

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Is that a tailwind for 2015, as it stands right now?

BYRON POLLITT: This one, boy, this one is tough. No one saw last year coming. It was at historically low levels. We're quite sobered about how to think about that. And it would be very consistent for us to say that we have approached currency volatility with a high degree of caution. And as Charlie said earlier, we absolutely know what we don't know about how currency volatility will behave in the future.

So as I said before, we were very pleased to see the September and October bounce. We didn't see it coming, but we're pleased to see it happened. But we remain very cautious in our guidance with regard to the role of volatility in the coming year.

OPERATOR: Chris Brendler, Stifel.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Hello, thanks. Good evening.

I wanted to get a little more color, if I could, Charlie, on the pricing you mentioned in April. I think Byron also was saying about cross-border. Is this a similar pricing action to what one of your major competitors did on inbound cross-border? And if it is, does that change your thinking at all on how you wanted to view pricing? And I think we've talked about in the past that this is a situation where you covered drawing a line in the sand and saying we're going to be independent in our pricing decisions and price for value. Give me a little more color on that.

And then a follow-up, if I could on China UnionPay. It seemed like the articles are focused more on clearing rather than the entire food chain in the payments business of authorization and settlement. Can you give us a rough idea how much clearing is of total Visa revenues? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Why don't we start with the second one?

BYRON POLLITT: The union pay and clearing?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes.

BYRON POLLITT: Go ahead.

CHARLIE SCHARF: I don't have the answer. I don't know -- I'm not sure -- again, so the way we charge for our services are we charge service fees and data processing. And if we process the transaction, then we reap data processing fees. And that number's on our income statement, and service fees if our brand is on the card. We can't sit here today and know what China is contemplating when they talk about opening up the marketplace, quite frankly. We really have to wait and see what they say, and then understand what it means for us. Beyond that we really just don't know any more than you know at this time.

Second one on pricing. Why don't you start on pricing?

BYRON POLLITT: On pricing, I can say absolutely this was an independent decision. And as I said in my remarks, it has been four years since we have done something in this arena. Meanwhile, we have continued to invest in the transaction environment related to cross-border and in our domestic markets. And at some point, we crossed the line and say the value created for both our issuers and our merchants warrant a modest change in pricing, which is what we've taken.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And we've said very consistently, and I've said it consistently, and Byron's said it consistently, there's no line in the sand any which way. That the decisions are going to stand on their own, and we have to look people in the eye and explain why they make sense for us in the environment that we live in. And we've looked at this one for a long time and feel it's the right thing to do.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Great. Thanks so much for the color.

OPERATOR: Jason Kupferberg, Jefferies & Company.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: From what you see in your data, are lower gas prices in the US sparking consumers to spend more actively in other verticals? Or are the lower gas prices just a drag on volume without any real offset? Because I guess we might have thought that the US volume growth in the September quarter may have accelerated versus June, just given the Chase conversion. But it looks like it was pretty steady. So I'm just wondering if there was a dampening effect from lower gas prices or what you are seeing there.

BYRON POLLITT: This is a story that is undoubtedly going to unfold a bit. There is no question that there is a modest drag that we see in the numbers with the drop in gas prices. It's less than 100 basis points, but it's clear there is a drag.

You saw debit growth -- which carries a lot of the gasoline transactions -- you saw debit growth dropped to 7% in the September quarter. You saw it bounce back to 8% through the first 21 days of October.

But the data's still a little unclear whether that is spend that's being redistributed. Or in the prior year, if you may recall, from October 1 through October 16, the government went into a partial shutdown. And arguably, depressed some spending during that period. And so this particular comp period is not clean.

But the thesis that we punch way above our weight when it comes to gasoline prices, use of cards at the pump, works on the upside; it also can be a drag on the downside. And so then the big question is, how does that money redistribute as it frees up? And at this point, too early to call.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane, Deutsche Bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: It's Bryan from Deutsche Bank.

Just looking at the data processing revenues growth at 14%, and I think volume at 9%, one of the things that you talked about, Byron, was the higher US debit fees, some pricing that kicked in. I want to make sure I understand what that was. Sounded like there was a pricing kick that finally is having an impact in 2012, with three quarters of it still going to have an impact. I want to make sure I understand what that is.

And then, finally, on the pricing in April 2015 you expect, can you quantify that impact and where it will show up in the P&L? Thanks so much.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to the data-processing fees, to be absolutely clear, there were no pricing actions in this area. This is about the pricing structure that we implemented back in 2012. And as you recall, it was a very different pricing structure than the one that we had previous to that point. And whenever you do that, it's going to take a couple of years to stabilize as you work your way through the full and complete implementation of that structure.

That's what it is. It involves no price increase or no pricing action. And what I referred to earlier in my script has nothing to do with what you're seeing. And further, this stabilizing should have a positive effect in the next couple of quarters, but diminishing. And by the end of the fiscal year should be, in our view, pretty much stabilized.

With regard to the other, since we're not yet public on the details of the pricing, we will wait for another day to consider addressing that.

OPERATOR: David Togut, Evercore Partners.

DAVID TOGUT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Thanks for taking my question.

Could you address your pricing strategy more broadly over the next two to three years? Perhaps gauge your pricing power and to what extent you intend to use it?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. I would say there's nothing new in our thinking, which is, first of all, when we think about our ability to grow the Company for the long term, given what the options are, what the opportunities are for us to grow volume, using pricing to get to numbers that we hope to be able to show over a period of time is not something that we rely on.

Having said that, we do think we should be paid fairly for what we do. And to the extent that we look at the services that we provide and feel that there's growing value in what we do, that's an opportunity for us to consider raising price. We know that people have options. And so there have to be reasons to be able to do it, whether it's on the issuing side or on the merchant side.

And as I've said, as I've talked about before, we're spending a lot of time working with the merchant community on providing value for them. And as we do that, some of those things will result in things that will help us from a pricing standpoint. Other things support our existing price.

So everything we do will be dealt on an individual basis. There's no line in the sand in any way we look at it. But again, as we come into the year and we think about what the opportunities are, pricing is something that we think is tactical for us and not particularly strategic at this point.

JACK CARSKY: And we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: David Hochstim, Buckingham Research.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Thank you.

I wonder, could you give us an update on what's happening with CyberSource? Still pretty good growth in transactions, but the growth rate continues to slow.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, I'd be happy to give you an update. We're not happy with the update. As you've noted, the transaction growth has been slowing.

And as we've said on an earlier occasion, we missed an investment cycle. We are now investing significantly to catch up, both in our capabilities and our staff. You should expect the anemic growth, so to speak, to continue for at least another couple of quarters. We expect that will begin to turn around by the end of this fiscal year.

And then just one call out: the measure we give you is transaction growth. The transaction growth that we have lost has been among the least revenue-generating of our transactions. So the revenue growth side of the equation has held up much better than the deterioration in transaction.

But that said, we're not happy with the results. But we have a very important role for CyberSource to play in our strategies going forward. And we are investing aggressively to bring that back to a much stronger growth rate.

JACK CARSKY: And with that, we want to thank everybody for joining us today. If anybody has follow-up questions, feel free to give Victoria or myself a call. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And that concludes today's conference. Thank you all for participating. You may disconnect at this time. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141031eaat008sr
  


 HD
 Q3  2014  Visa  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,329 words
   PD
24 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc .'s fiscal third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Today's conference is also being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time, and I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky , Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY , HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC : Thanks, Charles. Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome to Visa 's earnings conference call today. With us today are Charlie Scharf , Visa 's Chief Executive Officer and Byron Pollitt , Visa 's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the internet. It can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A power point deck containing financial and statistical highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance and our actual results could materially differ as a result of a variety of factors.

Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and -Q, which you can find on the SEC 's website -- in the IR section of our website. For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Reg G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release.

This release can also be accessed through the IR section of our website. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT , CFO, VISA INC : Thanks, Jack. Let me begin with my usual call outs and observations. First, we continued to experience solid constant dollar payment volume growth in the low-double-digit range, both in the US and internationally. That said, we see no signs yet of any acceleration in economic recovery and cross-border volume growth remains soft in the mid-single-digits.

Turning to revenue, as expected and previewed on our call last quarter, revenue growth further moderated, growing 7% year over year on a constant dollar basis, or 5% nominally, which reflects the two percentage points of FX headwind we have experienced since the beginning of the fiscal year. As a reminder, the current Q3 is lapping 17% nominal revenue growth in the prior-year quarter, which benefited from a number of favorable one-time adjustments.

It is worth noting that the international revenue grew at only 1% this quarter despite cross-border constant dollar volume growth of 7%. While unfavorable FX is a partial explanation, the bigger impact is a significant reduction in currency volatility, which has a direct impact on our international revenues. We expect both of these factors reverse over time.

Looking ahead to Q4, we expect a rebound in nominal revenue growth on the order of 2 to 3 percentage points compared to Q3. This rebound is about two percentage points less than we anticipated at the time of our last earnings call, primarily due to a one percentage point drop in cross-border transaction growth and unusually low levels of volatility across a broad range of currencies.

So that means for the full FY14, we now expect revenue growth in the 9% to 10% range on a constant dollar basis with guarded optimism that the moderation in cross-border volume growth has troughed. After FX impacts, that translates into nominal revenue growth of 7% to 8%.

Client incentives for the fiscal third quarter came in lower than we had anticipated at our last earnings call, due primarily to the timing associated with several major deals, which have now been either signed or we expect to sign in the fiscal fourth quarter. With this in mind, we are narrowing our full-year guidance for client incentives as a percent of gross revenue to around 17% from the prior range of 16.5% to 17.5%.

Let me also point out that mathematically this puts the fourth quarter at north of 19%. In terms of EPS, on a FY14 basis, we are narrowing our guidance for diluted earnings per share to be in the 17.5% to 18.5% range.

Lastly, we remain confident in our future growth prospects and fully committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders. To this end, we repurchased a total of 5.6 million shares during the quarter at an average price per share of $207 and change, resulting in a total cost of $1.2 billion. This leaves an outstanding open to buy of $1.9 billion at the end of June and as always we will take advantage of market movements to repurchase at attractive prices.

Now let's turn to payment volume and transaction growth. Let me start with what I stated last quarter. Though we are seeing a sustained economic recovery, there are no signs yet of acceleration either domestically or internationally.

Global payment volume growth for the June quarter in constant dollars was 11%, a 1 percentage point decline from the March quarter. The US grew 10% and international grew 13%.

Drilling down further, for the June quarter, US credit growth was 12%, slightly higher than the 11% in Q2 and through July 21, US credit improved to 14% growth. US debit was 8% in Q3, a 1 percentage point improvement compared to Q2.

Through July 21, US debit is flat at 8% growth. Taken together, US payment volume growth through July 21 was 11%, up 1 percentage point from the Q3 level.

Global cross-border volume delivered a 7% constant dollar growth rate in the June quarter, slightly down from 8% in the March quarter. US and international both grew at 7%. Through July 21, cross-border volume on a constant dollar basis held steady at 7% growth, with the US growing 6% and international registering 7% growth.

For the June-ending quarter, the sequential down tic of 1 percentage point in cross-border was broad-based and spread across China, Russia, Ukraine, Venezuela, Argentina, and the Middle East as you might expect, given political tensions and the early onset of Ramadan. Speaking of Ramadan, when interpreting the Q4 cross-border trends, keep in mind that the timing of Ramadan in 2014 benefits August at the expense of July.

Transactions processed over Visa 's network totaled $16.7 billion in the fiscal third quarter, an 11% increase over the prior-year period. Same growth rate as Q2. The US grew 9%, while international delivered 20% growth.

Through July 21, process transaction growth moderated to a 9% growth rate. The notable drop in July is largely due to the lapping of significant debit wins in Brazil in June 2013, where our debit processing penetration went from 0% to well above 50%.

Now turning to the income statement, net operating revenue in the quarter was $3.2 billion, a 5% increase year over year, driven primarily by growth in service and data processing globally and, as mentioned earlier, negatively impacted by a 2 percentage point foreign currency headwind. Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.4 billion, up 9% over the prior year and was driven by moderating global payment volume growth. Data processing revenue was $1.3 billion, up 11% over the prior year's quarter based on solid growth rates in Visa processed transactions both in the US and internationally.

As highlighted earlier, international transaction revenue was up 1% to $860 million, versus 7% constant dollar volume growth over the prior-year period as a result of a broad range of currencies experiencing volatility, well below the 10-year trend line, in contrast to the year-ago quarter when volatility was near record highs. We would expect a return to a more normal volatility pattern in the coming quarters.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $1.1 billion, down 3% from the prior year. Certain expenses have slipped to the fiscal fourth quarter, while some specific personnel and professional fees, though sequentially higher than the prior quarter, were comping off of higher levels of expense in the year-ago period. We expect elevated marketing investments in Q4, more comparable to Q2 levels, tied to the FIFA World Cup in combination with significant investments in the support of the recent rollout of Visa Checkout.

Operating margin was 64% for the third quarter, in line with our guidance of low- to mid-60%s. Capital expenditures were $109 million in the quarter.

At the end of the June quarter, we had 624 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding on an as-converted basis. The weighted average number of fully diluted shares outstanding for the quarter totaled 628 million.

Finally, given our year-to-date results and our outlook for the balance of the year, let me recap our 2014 full-year guidance. Constant dollar net revenue growth of 9% to 10% which, when combined with 2 percentage points of negative FX impact, yield nominal revenue growth of 7% to 8%. Client incentives, around 17%.

Operating margin in the low- to mid-60%s. Tax rate between 30% and 31%. EPS growth in the 17.5% to 18.5% range and free cash flow of about $5 billion.

Before I turn the call over to Charlie, let me provide some early perspective on FY15. In short, we are approaching 2015 bullish on the long term but cautious in the short term.

Here is some of the underlying observations and assumptions informing our planning for next year. First, while we expect US and international payment volume growth to remain healthy, we have not yet seen acceleration in global economic growth. cross-border transactions appear to be troughing in the 6% to 7% growth range on a constant dollar basis.

As perspective, we know that these growth rates can recover significantly without notice and that the notable declines in Latin American growth rates lap in January of 2015 and the market decline, related to the Russian-Ukraine crisis will lap in March. Everything else equal, once these events anniversary, the pick up in cross-border growth could be in the 2 to 3 percentage point range.

As to currency volatility, not sure when this trend reverses. We only know from a historical perspective, we are overdue for a correction and such shifts in trend can be quick and sizeable.

Consistent with past strategies, we remain focused on growing revenue through converting more cash volume to electronic payments with a growing emphasis on digital. In addition, we expect the successful growth in our client payment volumes both -- for both issuers and merchants to result in higher levels of client incentives as measured by percent of gross revenues.

Turning to Russia, while this situation is still very much in flux, we anticipate being a part of a commercial solution that will be implemented in 2015 which will likely result in the loss of about $50 million in domestic Russian processing revenue. Looking further down the income statement, we see no step function change in our tax rate at this time. That said, we are working diligently on more fully realizing our opportunities related to foreign tax credits.

Finally, consistent with past practice, we expect to deploy our excess cash flow in 2015 to service our dividend and to repurchase our shares. In sum, we remain bullish on the future but recognize that in today's economic environment, we must work through several challenges before we can once again resume more normalized rates of growth. As is our practice on the Q4 earnings call, we will provide more color on 2015, and with that, I'll turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF , CEO, VISA INC : Thank you very much, Byron. Byron did cover the financial results in a fair amount of detail, but I just thought I'd just pass on a few quick thoughts.

First of all, the quarterly results did come in where we expect. The revenue growth being impacted by the year-over-year comps for the strong US dollar and tepid growth from the cross-border payment volume of these specific geographies was what we expected and we reiterate that we are confident that these headwinds, we do not feel, are permanent.

More importantly for the long term, global payments volume and process transactions remain healthy and strong. Also, our issuer contract pipeline is very strong, so all-in all we're gratified to be able to deliver 15% earnings per share growth given the environment and what we've discussed.

Let me turn now for a second and talk about Russia. As you all know, by reading the newspapers and watching the news, the situation continues to evolve.

The recent additional sanctions have not forced us to curtail business with additional clients and as of today, our domestic and international business continues. This includes completing term sheets and contracts regarding our brand relationships during this quarter with significant Russian clients, which we're gratified about, but we continue to focus on developing a domestic processing solution and we're actively engaged with the Russian government and the Russian banks to develop a commercial solution, which will allow us to continue to serve our Russian clients.

Most limiting provisions of the new law go into effect in October and we are working to have a solution implemented by that time. Having said that, and as Byron mentioned, we do expect to lose apportion of our domestic processing revenues over the next year, which will reset our base from which we expect to achieve good growth.

Now let me turn for a second and talk about what we're seeing in our client activity around the globe. We did have a good quarter regarding issuing co-brand contracts. Just a few significant examples, in the US, we renewed our credit card relationships with American Eagle Outfitters and Hyatt Hotels & Resorts .

In Canada earlier this month, we launched a new relationship with CIBC for Tim Hortons , which is the largest QSR in Canada. It's a significant co-brand offering and the no-fee rewards base afforded by innovative product features and real-time rewards.

It's called the Double Double Visa card. It leverages a first of its kind, dual button technology that combines a CIBC Visa credit card for payments with a classic Tim card for rewards.

Cardholders simply press the CIBC Visa button on the front of the card to pay for their every day purchases, anywhere Visa is accepted, or they can choose to press the Tim card button and then use the same card to redeem their Tim cash for their favorite coffee and menu items at Hortons. The new card also offers the convenience of Visa payWave and security of Chip and PIN technology that consumers in Canada enjoy today.

On the issuing side, we also renewed a multi-year agreement with the Royal Bank of Canada , an important and longstanding client of Visa . We also signed a number of other significant new multi-year agreements around the globe.

In Australia, we will be the exclusive card network for a Woolworths Money's credit card partnership. Woolworths is Australia's largest retailer. In China, we renewed our credit partnership deals with China Industrial Bank, China Minsheng Banking Corporation and Shanghai Pudong Development bank.

In Korea, we signed a new debit partnership agreement with Hana SK and new credit/debit agreement with Woori card. In Saudi Arabia, the Saudi British bank will convert their debit card portfolio to Visa from a competitor, and Banque Saudi Fransi has renewed their credit, debit and prepaid agreement. In the UAE, Visa signed a new credit deal with Mashreq Bank , including an exclusive card for high-network individuals.

Turning to cyber source for a second, we've discussed the weaker growth over the past few quarters. Increasing our rate of growth here will take some time. It's one account at a time, and as Byron mentioned we are investing here to rebuild to higher growth rates.

We recently announced a strategic global partnership with Amadeus, a leading technology provider for the global travel industry. Amadeus's integrated cyber sources fraud management system, Decision Manager, into the Amadeus payment platform, which can help travel organizations globally accept more bookings while identifying potential fraudulent transactions and lowering operational costs.

Turning to payment security for a moment, earlier this year we formed a payment task force and partnership with other networks, merchants, issuers, acquirers and device manufactures. We see real collaboration here, which is terrific.

We continue to work through a common road map for enhanced security in the US. Topics include EMV, tokenization, end-to-end encryption, and coordinated communications. The group is working very well together and we would expect the group to have some things to talk about publicly in the near future.

Let me talk for a few minutes now about our work in digital commerce. First of all, there's a lot of clutter in the market about whose doing what in the digital payment space. It can be confusing for sure.

We have a very specific point of view and a set of strategies here. Simply put, we are keenly focused on achieving the same success in the digital world that we have had in the physical world.

This means focusing on tangible activities in the marketplace that help accelerate digital commerce with Visa as a platform partner. As an aside, our card not present volumes today are growing three times as fast as card present, which we feel is still just a traction of the opportunity in this space.

We are focused on two different but related things. Number one, bringing digital payments to the physical world and number two, enabling digital payments in the connected world. To do this, we are materially changing how we do business.

Historically, we would only allow access to our capabilities through issuers and acquirers and for them it wasn't particularly easy. Today we're simplifying access for our traditional partners, but we're also enabling a much broader set of partners to access thee platforms in ways we have not allowed historically so they can build experiences that use our payment capabilities.

This includes partners such as merchants, technology companies both big and small, mobile operators, device manufacturers, other payment companies, social networks, and the broader application developer community. Including these partners means exposing web services so they can connect with us.

To help drive innovation, last week we opened a 100,000 square foot innovation center in San Francisco. This space is all about collaboration.

It's one of the series of physical spaces which we will have which we provide a physical environment where we can sit side by side with partners, traditional and new, big and small, to create experiences using our capabilities. We're also investing in younger companies such as DocuSign and Loop.

As a group, investments like these, and there are more to come, keep us close to innovators in our space. Being part of the dialogue is important. Bear in mind, we aren't looking to pick exclusive winners here, but we do want to enable a series of people who we think can help drive payment electronicification.

To support our digital activities, today we announced Visa Digital Solutions. This suite of services extends our support for mobile payments to enable retailers, financial institutions and developers to create new ways to pay via mobile devices.

Specifically, we publish specifications and software development kits to make it easier for financial institutions, merchants and developers to create new ways to pay using our products on mobile devices using Visa payWave and QR codes. We have also published APIs and SDKs to enable merchants and developers to embed simplified payments within their web and mobile sites, as well as the mobile applications using Visa Check Out, which I'll talk a little bit more about in a moment. These services are now available and there will be more coming throughout the year.

The second category is aimed at protecting consumer account information. Our new token services are part of this.

I've mentioned this before, but most people have focused on the security benefits of tokenization and they are real, but with tokens, new players and, importantly, non-traditional payment providers such as developers and merchants can build applications that access payment information in a safe, secure manner not possible before. This means on digital devises wherever there's an internet connection, regardless of the form factor, including ones that don't exist today, developers will be able to integrate Visa payment capabilities.

Merchants, developers and banks will start offering token-based payments in September of this year. We are also launching a more robust developer center in early 2015. We'll extend the capabilities we exposed to the developer community.

In addition to all of this, we're creating a suite of services to enable banks to issue and manage Visa accounts in secure virtual clouds. This again allows developers to create commerce opportunities to integrate our payments products and capabilities wherever there is an internet connection.

Last week, we launched Visa Checkout, replacing V.me in the marketplace. We've learned a lot over the past year and a half through candid conversations with issuers, acquirers and merchants, in addition to consumer research on the topic of digital wallets and digital acceptance.

Our goal is simple. We want our clients and their customers to be ale to use our products in the digital world as easily as they can in the physical world.

This means we've designed Visa Checkout to be the Visa card in the digital world. It means a simple buying experience for consumers, clear branding for issuers, and simple integration with merchants. It also means preserving the roles in the payments chain as they exist today.

Visa Checkout accomplishes all of this. For the consumer, they can pay with a user name and password with just a few clicks wherever they see their card and Visa Checkout online.

For the issuer, clear branding throughout the Checkout experience and for the merchant, easy integration of a product, one which will help increase the rate at which sales are consummated online. As I said, Visa Checkout is simply a Visa card in the digital world. As I mentioned earlier with this launch, a new mobile software development kit is also available allowing developers to quickly build and implement an in-app check out experience for IOS and Android-based devises.

We will drive broad awareness for Visa Checkout through a significant advertising campaign, recently launched in the digital and social channels, and on television later this year. The campaign will feature participating merchants and a broad range of consumer offers and promotions.

We're thrilled with our partners who are part of the launch. On the financial institution side, they include more than 180 financial institutions and organizations, big and small. The list includes US issuers such as Bank of America , BB&T , BBVA Compass , CSCU, which is the card services for credit unions, Chase, Citi, ICBA Bank Card, Navy Federal Credit Union , PNC, Regions, US Bank and Wells Fargo .

We're also thrilled to have great merchants as partners in our launch, some of which are the following -- Neiman Marcus , Staples, Pizza Hut , United Airlines , Petco, Wine Enthusiast, Adorama, Joseph A. Bank , Rakuten, Ticketmaster and Live Nation . Over 170 merchants are live in Australia, Canada and the US, representing approximately $20 billion in total addressable payment volume. The sales pipeline is also very strong with over 40 merchants at term sheet and/or negotiating master service agreements, representing an additional $37 billion in addressable volume, including some great sizeable brands.

In summary, our job at Visa is to help grow commerce by providing a platform to integrate what we think is the best payment brand and set of capabilities in the world into new buying experiences, simply and securely. These experiences will certainly make it easier to pay by eliminating physical cards over time, but the driver of behavioral change will be the experiences that can now be created on mobile devices that can not be created on plastic, because the mobile device is connected and interactive and these experiences will become the real reason to pay digitally over time. We believe we will start to see these experiences in the near future, and are excited about what they mean for everyone involved in commerce, and will be an important part of our future.

We look forward to discussing the specific experiences and their positive impact to Visa over the coming quarters. And with that, Operator, I think Byron and I are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question comes from Jason Kupferberg from Jefferies. Your line is now open.

JASON KUPFERBERG , ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks, guys. Just wanted to ask about the cross-border a little bit more, since obviously that remains a high priority focus area for folks. Can you give us any commentary whether some of the slowdown has been more on the consumer side relative to the commercial side? And then just any thoughts on the gap between your growth in this metric and that of our biggest competitor at least through the March quarter?

We don't know what they've done through the June quarter yet, but it just looks like that gap has gotten a little bigger and curious if you have done any market intelligence to get a better understanding of that. Is there anything structural we should be thinking about?

CHARLIE SCHARF : So let me start off with the first part of the question. It's very corridor-specific, so let me just highlight a few of the corridors that we saw the deceleration in cross-border from Q2 to Q3. Many of these will come as no surprise.

Generally from Russia to the European countries; from Argentina, Venezuela to the European countries; the European countries to Ukraine; Russia to Ukraine; to the European countries. So from that standpoint, those are the key corridors that move the needle. We know that it is pretty broad based and in this case many of these are just situationally specific.

With regards to the second part of your question, recognizing that Visa Inc . does not have Europe, we are comfortable that at least half the difference in cross-border growth rates is attributable to Europe and the remainder we have under study. We also know, given the ebb and flow of certain portfolio movements, that some of that is country specific and we are very focused on reversing those trends in the coming quarters.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Sanjay from KBW. Your line is now open.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Thank you. I guess I had a question on the hedges and the volatility observation, or point.

Could you just talk about what would happen if volatility doesn't come back into the FX market? Does that serve as a headwind for a period of time, then?

CHARLIE SCHARF : So let me separate first hedges and volatility, because the two are completely independent of each other. When we speak of hedges, this is simply a -- basically a 12-month program where we try and dampen the fluctuations in FX when we translate net revenue or earnings positions earned in foreign currencies back into our financial statements. It doesn't -- cross-border is impacted, but to a modest degree and these are hedges in the traditional sense, simply put in place to dampen the volatility of naturally occurring changes in currencies relative to the dollar over time.

The volatility is a different animal. Every year, well if I look back, if we look back over the past year, we will have performed currency translation services for over $150 billion US in value in order to facilitate the settlement of transactions where Visa card is -- whose account is denominated in one currency is used in a country where the currency is different. So over the course of the year, as I indicated, we do over $150 billion of those kinds of currency translation services.

The way -- we earn a very small spread on those transactions. The way the spread is calculated it's an algorithm that is based on the actual volatility of a currency in a given day. That volatility is something we've studied over a long period of time.

There is, during the course of a year, often quite a bit of volatility, but the amount of volatility tends to revert back to a mean over time. So we would expect what we're seeing and, as example, if we were to look at the month of June, June had the lowest volatility that we have seen in 15 years. So from that standpoint, we view this much more as of the moment, that it should resume back to some sort of normalized volatility levels which has been our experience since we've gone public and that's how we're anticipating this trend for the future.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay, great.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jim. Jim's from Goldman Sachs .

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT, ANALYST: Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on your commentary regarding incentives for the FY15. Specifically, how many of your top 10 issuing clients are expected to come up for renewal next year?

CHARLIE SCHARF : So what we would typically do on the Q4 call is give you a sense of the full-year expectation for incentives, so you can expect that on the Q4 call in October. It is our practice to give incentive projections or guidance on a yearly basis, not by quarter and we would characterize our pipeline of deals as, it was healthy this year. It's a healthy pipeline of renewals next year as well, and the impact -- the expected impact will characterize that in a range and share with you all on the fourth quarter earnings call.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Darrin from Barclays .

DARRIN PELLER , ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL : Thanks. Charlie, just first a higher-level question. You mentioned in your remarks, and I think in the press release, that longer-term you believe Visa should be able to grow in the revenue in the double-digit range. Can you just highlight and perhaps rank for us what the key drivers you think would be that would enable the growth to improve, given the higher base from which you're growing now?

And then maybe just near term. On the near term side, Byron, as a follow-up to that question, I guess what people are trying to figure out is if this higher level of incentives in fourth quarter is actually new business that could drive that part of that acceleration into next year? Thanks, guys.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Yes, so let me start with this, which is again the way we look at our numbers is we look at what our revenue growth is, excluding the items that we talk about here as headwinds. And again, I said this in my remarks, we do believe that these headwinds are not permanent. So if you just look at the headwinds that we've had in the foreign currency translation, in the currency volatility, the impact on the comps year over year and this growth in cross-boarder payments, which, we should point out, can move either way very, very rapidly and we've got amazing data to back that up.

When you just back out these headwinds, which we do believe are temporary, our growth underlying all of that is still very, very strong, which you can see in the transaction processing growth and the overall payments growth. So we talk about generating reasonable returns over a period of time, there's the long term, which is effected by the things we're doing in the digital world, we think which is certainly helpful, but then there's this other defined period once we get through these headwinds, and the issue that we have is we don't know exactly when they're going reverse but we are very confident that they will.

BYRON POLLITT : With regards to the second part of your question, recognizing that a typical contract would last five years, some longer, we enter into contracts with the expectation that they will drive growth over that five year period. How we structure the incentives makes a big difference with regards to what kind of growth we may or may not see in the first year.

As we've talked about over the years, some of the deal renewals entail more meaningful up-front payments that, from a GAAP standpoint, we might have to record more fully in the income statement versus amortize over the term of the contract. So there's a lot that goes into how you structure a deal and then how it's translated on to the books, but since Charlie's comment was based over the -- and we see ourself in the longer term returning to double digit revenue growth, the answer is we would expect these deals to build on a foundation that would drive growth over the term of the period that would enable us to achieve that objective.

JACK CARSKY : Next question, Charles?

OPERATOR: Yes, sir, next question comes from Moshe from Credit Suisse . Your line is now open.

MOSHE ORENBUCH , ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Great, thanks. Charlie, when you talked about tokenization, could you talk about whether that is something that is going to kind of bring in revenues into the system and will those be revenues that go to the networks? Do they share it? Could you talk a little about those -- or are they just something that's going to be an additional form of security?

CHARLIE SCHARF : Again, I don't think, the answer with this, yes it's an additional form of security for sure. We think of it as driving more network volume that we otherwise wouldn't be able to get because other people can now participate and embed payments in different applications and experiences out there because it's safe and secure because of the tokens.

This isn't a question of getting paid specifically for tokenization. It really is about driving more volume through our issuers for our merchants and ultimately to us as well as part of that.

JACK CARSKY : Next question please?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Smitti from Morgan Stanley . Your line is now open.

SMITTI SRETHAPRAMOTE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Great, thank you. Charlie, I just wanted to follow up on a statement you made earlier about your new strategy on the digital front. I thought I heard that you say you allow new ways for parties to access your network directly, so does this mean other potentially merchants and other technology partners will no longer need to connect to your network through a wire? And if that's the case, will it settle the transaction?

CHARLIE SCHARF : No, I didn't say that. What I said was that we are exposing the capabilities so that different parties, including merchants, can embed Visa payments into their experiences, but very importantly, it preserves the role that issuers, acquirers play in the system today. What we're trying to do is, again historically, we've had great relationships with issuers and acquirers, still do, but anyone whose trying to build an experience or an application would have to then go through multiple issuers, multiple acquirers to get that experience to market in a meaningful way. By exposing our capabilities directly to them, it allows more people to be creative relative to helping drive digital commerce in a way that uses our payments as a platform for them but it keeps the flow of information, the flow of data, and the flow of economics the same as it is today in the four-party system.

SMITTI SRETHAPRAMOTE: Thanks for the clarification.

JACK CARSKY : Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bryan from Deutsche Bank . Your line is now open.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Yes, hi. Just wanted to follow-up, Byron, your comments on 2015. I didn't hear any comments on the operating margin. Do you still expect to get leverage in 2015 on the operating margin?

And then secondly, just an update on the Chase migration volume that is expected. Are we, a quarter way through, just trying to get a sense of how much we're through and the migrating of that volume. Thanks so much.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Before Byron answers the question, everyone asks for that operating margin. You just really, we really have to think about incentives as a meaningful cost of doing business here as well.

BYRON POLLITT : And the two should be viewed in combination. With the exception of our -- what happened to our incentive line after the great recession, that has gradually moved up and in terms of incentives as a percent of gross revenue and in a way that is very similar to dealing back margin. We don't have a combined metric to summarize the two, but the two very much should be linked because incentives are a form of price reduction, or price discount.

So with regards to margin outlook, as you know, it is our practice when we talk about margins and the outlook for the year to do that on the Q4 call. And since we as a Company have never solved for margins, margins have been an outcome, it's much -- we're in a much better position to talk about that at the fourth quarter call when we have our plans in place and we're at least a bit better informed about what the economic drivers are leveled to hold in store for us in the coming year. So if we can indulge your patience for three months.

CHARLIE SCHARF : And even beyond the three months, because obviously -- I think what -- the way we think about where we are is, we are not in an environment where it's very easy to predict the next quarter or the quarter after that just given what's going on in the world and these trends that we've seen which affect our revenue numbers materially. Again, as I said before, we feel very confident that the headwinds will dissipate.

We know that at some point the economy will be more helpful across the globe. What we don't know is the timing and we certainly can't sit here today and tell you what it will be a year from now, and that is still only half way through next year. So as the world evolves and as these issues evolve and we get closer to the time period, it's obviously, by definition, easier for us to talk about it.

BYRON POLLITT : Just a quick word on Chase. The current quarter's results, to the extent that they include any of the conversion, it's not material and we, remembering this will hit the service fee line and we report the service fee line on a one-quarter lag, before we see much impact from the conversion, it will really be for us, the December-ending quarter, which will be the first quarter of the next fiscal year. But at the present, no material impact on the quarters results and frankly not a material impact on the Q4 results either.

JACK CARSKY : Next question, Charles?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Tien-tsin from JPMorganChase. Your line is now open.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Great. Thanks. Just wanted to clarify what's driving the softer revenue outlook for the fourth quarter. Just wanted to make sure I caught it correctly.

It sounds like it's lower cross-border, plus lack of volume acceleration. I don't think that it's incentive driven. Just wanted to clarify that.

And then the question I wanted to ask was actually on Visa Checkout and the strategy there to get consumers signed up and to use Visa Checkout versus whatever, PayPal or any other visual payment method you can think. Because they get the questions all day today about Apple and other initiatives, so just trying to understand how that play out versus something else. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT : Let me take the first part. With regards very specifically to the Q4, which is really how we're then going to finish out the year, it compared to where we were on the third-quarter call.

What's different primarily is a down tick in the cross-border, so you have that right, and continued depressed, historically depressed, volatility levels from a currency standpoint. For those where -- our position has moved a bit more conservative from where we were on the prior-quarter call.

It doesn't have anything to do with incentives, because what didn't get booked this quarter, our assumption is it will get booked in the current quarter and we're already signing deals to validate that. And remember, our incentive guidance was 16.5% to 17.5% and we've narrowed it to about 17%, so we're right down the middle of the fairway.

CHARLIE SCHARF : But as we sit here and just think about from this quarter to next quarter, we are not assuming any kind of meaningful change in these headwinds that we've talked about which, again because -- are possible and will happen, we just don't know the timing. And just given the math that Byron said, next quarter's incentives will be higher than this quarter's incentives and we talked about that during his remarks.

And the Visa Checkout question? If I remember what the exact question was. The question -- Tien-tsin, are you still there?

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Yes, I'm here. Just wanted to clarify, Charlie, the strategy to get consumers signed up for Visa Checkout versus all of the other stuff that's out there, PayPal , and I guess Amazon is talking about -- trying to understand how you'll solve the consumer side of the equation?

And then, I guess if I get a chance here, if you don't mind, there's been -- if you can address Apple and iWallet or whatever the press has been talked about with your partnership there, I think that would be great, and how that would fit with your digital strategy. Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Sure. So, listen. I think on the answer to the first question about, which my word is why Visa Checkout for consumer and how are we going to activate the consumers around the world to use this product as opposed to something else? It's, from our perspective, what's different about this versus the other things that you mentioned are the relationships that we have with banks. Right?

Again, we've got 2.2 billion cards around the world and then we think about the people who were willing to support this with their names in the press release. A bunch of them come to a launch event that we had here. These are amazing names.

These banks talk to their clients regularly and over the next six months you'll start to see banks do different things to enable their customers in a very proactive way to use Visa Checkout. It's one thing for us to sit here and say we're going to go try and do it. That would be very, very difficult.

The reason why we're confident that we'll be successful is because we do it in partnership with the banks because it's their clients. We provide support. Our marketing and advertising is going do that. Again, we've got really neat stuff in the digital and social channels.

As Byron mentioned in his remarks, we intend to spend a significant amount in marketing, including TV, as we go into the back-to-school season and then again for the leading up to the Christmas season. It's going to be hard not to know what Visa Checkout is and why you should have it. So we're pretty excited about that.

And Apple , I'm not going to address anything specifically out there, but again, we've said this before, we talked to a whole range of people who historically weren't doing significant things in payments and those that are and we're very excited about some of the things that we're talking to potential partners about. And again, over the next three months, six months, nine months, we hope some of those things will actually be in the marketplace and you'll be as excited about them as we are.

JACK CARSKY : Next question, Charles?

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Bob from William Blair. Your line is now open.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Good afternoon. Just wanted to follow-up on a few of the 2015 comments. We talk a lot -- you talk a lot about currency volatility. Can you maybe put some numbers around that? Is that 1% of revenue effect versus your guidance?

And then in talking about 2015, your tax rate, I was a little, the full-year tax rate for this year, you're expecting it flat? And then you're still getting double-digit payment volume growth as people think about revenue and higher -- is the double-digit payment volume growth, do you still expect to be able to attain that next year?

CHARLIE SCHARF : So let me start off on the currency volatility. We don't -- we are not on record with talking about specific amounts that this is, as you can imagine, a part of -- it's pretty fundamental to the Visa global acceptance proposition that we be in a position to perform currency translation services.

So this is something that we have done forever, and we do it in a way that actually delivers a pretty attractive card holder proposition. As a part of the disclosures for someone that receives a Visa card, they are told that they are guaranteed a wholesale rate and I'm hard pressed, personally, to think of any other situation where a consumer or card holder would have available to them a wholesale currency translation rate.

That's what we do. We take a very small spread on that to cover our operations and it's related -- how much the spread is, is related to currency volatility. I have talked about that from time to time on currency -- I mean, on earnings calls. It rarely has this level of impact, but as we said earlier, we're at levels of currency volatility that we haven't seen in 15 years.

Tax rate? With the guidance this call, we have given very specific guidance of 30% to 31% and have indicated that next year not to expect any step function rate. We did have an important tax adjustment last quarter that represented both a catch up and a permanent ongoing reduction in our tax rate.

Because there was a catch up, one might naturally wonder whether that impact is something that would be one-time and then the rate might naturally gravitate back up in the following year, hence in my remarks I mentioned that we are hard at work in fully realizing foreign tax credit opportunities. We expect that to help inform the rate for next year and underpin the comment that we don't, at this point, expect any step function change in the rate.

With regards to double-digit payment volume growth, gosh, we, certainly on a constant dollar basis, this is the level of payment of volume growth that is being produced with pretty anemic growth in economies. So as we look at the payment volume growth, this is one of those factors that we think, looking forward, have certainly more upside than downside. One never knows for sure, but one, I think, would agree that the economic growth we've been experiencing over the past several years has been pretty anemic and hopefully nowhere to go but up.

JACK CARSKY : Next question, Charles?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Craig from CLSA. Your line is now open.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Good evening. Charlie, I wanted to ask you, theoretically, about the future with technology and changes you're bringing to the online world that are absolutely focused on better security, as you said. What are your thoughts about the sustainability of card-not-present interchange rate for banks when clearly those rates were predicated on higher fraud levels?

CHARLIE SCHARF : Listen, I'm not going to talk about what we would be thinking about anything specific on interchange on a going-forward basis. What I will remind -- and I know, Craig, we've talked about this but it is a good reminder to everyone, I don't know of a lot of industries out there that price their services for anything other than the value received. And the value received from products like ours in the card-not-present world is extraordinary.

We know the number of businesses that wouldn't exist if it wasn't for our products and if people wanted to go back to a COD world we could certainly try that. So as we sit here and continue to improve security and to continue to build payments into peoples applications, all with a point of view of helping them grow, we're going to be making sure we think about looking at both sides of the equation, looking at what goes to the issuing side and the acquiring side, what is fair in terms of value received. And that could possibly evolve over time, but again it's the value equation on both sides.

JACK CARSKY : Next question, Charles?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Chris from Sandler O'Neill. Your line is now open.

CHRIS DONAT , ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Byron, just wanted to explore one thing on your comment about the Chase business not appearing in the numbers in a material way.

Just looking at the volume from credit that was 12% year on year, US credit, 12% year-on-year growth in the June quarter and you said, I think, 14% through July 21. Does that reflect any of the Chase business or is there some other dynamic going on there?

BYRON POLLITT : It does, but as it relates to conversion, it's really not a material driver of those numbers. As the conversion picks up speed later in the year, we would expect to see -- we would expect to see more of an impact but currently, it's not material.

JACK CARSKY : At this point, Charles we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Our final question comes from Ken from Merrill Lynch . Your line is now open.

KEN BRUCE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : Thanks, good evening. Thank you for all of the color you've given us on the issue around the cross-border. I'm hoping you might entertain one more question. You had pointed out last quarter that some of these quarters had witnessed slowing volume. Obviously there's corridors kind of picked up and that's going to work out as it works out.

On the actual foreign exchange volatility side, has this been something that has been, that volatility has been dampening over time and it just became much more acute in the most recent quarter? If you look back, what would be kind of the right reference point to think about in terms of what normalized volatility would look like, if you would?

BYRON POLLITT : Honestly we don't have very good explanation. When you look at the patterns of volatility, they are often event specific. During the period where Greece was rumored to be potentially exiting the Euro, there was quite a bit of volatility in the Euro and that cross referenced against quite a few currencies.

We thought that we would see some volatility return during the week where a Malaysian airliner was shot down. We had an event in Gaza and Portugal was in the news with regards to the civility of its participation in the Euro block.

And yet, those type of events which would have historically created volatility, didn't. The one common denominator that we've seen over the past several quarters is just an exceptionally strong dollar and our hypothesis is that, that may have something to do with it, but honestly we've done a lot of analysis and looked for a lot of correlations and just haven't been able to find one that offers much in the way of a respectable R-squared.

CHARLIE SCHARF : But as Byron said, what we saw recently are the lowest levels that we've ever in 15 years.

BYRON POLLITT : In years.

CHARLIE SCHARF : So you can defy gravity for awhile, but not forever. In looking at 15 years worth of data, there are periods of calm that occur regularly during the course of a year and then again looking at that time line of data, these can reverse very, very quickly, often without notice. So if past this prolong then it's just a matter of time before we hit an inflection point and it moves back to something more closer to the point.

JACK CARSKY : And with that we would like to thank everybody for joining us today and if you have any other follow-up questions, feel free to call myself or Victoria. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And that concludes today's conference. Thank you all for participating. You may disconnect at this time. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140726ea7o009hp
  


 HD
 Q2  2014  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,989 words
   PD
24 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc .'s Fiscal Q2 2014 Earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Today's conference is being recorded. If you have objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky , Head of Global Investor Relations.

Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY , HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC : Thank you, Adrian.

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa Inc .'s Fiscal Second Quarter 2014 Earnings conference call. With us today are Charlie Scharf , Visa 's Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt , Visa 's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the internet. It can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing financial and statistical highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could materially differ as the result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release. This release can also be accessed through the IR section of our website.

And with that, I will now turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT , CFO, VISA INC : Thanks, Jack.

Let me begin with my usual call-outs and observations. First, turning to revenue. As expected and previewed on our call last quarter, revenue growth moderated during the quarter, growing 9% year over year on a constant dollar basis, or 7% nominally, which includes the expected 2 percentage points of FX headwind we have been guiding to since the beginning of the fiscal year. As a reminder, the current Q2 is lapping 15% revenue growth in the prior-year quarter, which benefited from a number of favorable one-time adjustments.

Looking ahead to Q3, we expect nominal revenue growth to be in the mid single-digits, which could be a couple of percentage points below Q2's growth rate. As signaled on last quarter's call, a softer Q3 growth rate was also anticipated, given continued FX headwinds of 2 percentage points; a 17% revenue comp in the prior-year quarter also driven in part by one-time events; and a moderation in cross-border spend, which we view as short-term. After two softer quarters, in fiscal Q4, we expect to see constant dollar revenue growth more reflective of the secular shift, as well as the e-commerce and mobile trends that have driven, and will continue to drive, attractive growth for years to come.

As a footnote to fiscal Q4, we expect very little impact from Chase card conversions, particularly given our quarter lag in reporting of service fees. This event will have more impact in FY15. Our guidance for client incentives remains unchanged. Despite delivering first-half client incentives as a percent of gross revenues of 15.8%, we expect incentives to be second-half weighted, and finished the year within the current guidance of 16.5% to 17.5%.

On a full fiscal year basis, we now expect our guidance of low double-digit constant dollar net revenue growth to be in the 10% to 11% range, with a negative 2 percentage point impact from FX.

Now let's turn to payment volume and transaction growth. On a constant dollar basis, global payment volume growth was 12%, unchanged from Q1. US payment volume growth for Q2 was 8%, also unchanged from Q1. With a boost from Easter timing and better weather, US payment volume growth for the first 21 days of April rose to 12%.

The deceleration in cross-border growth seems to be bottoming out. Q2 constant-dollar growth was 8%, 4 percentage points down from Q1. But the first 21 days of April registered 7% growth, nearly flat to Q2.

Cross-border weakness is pronounced in Latin America, as in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, the Canada to US corridor, and Russia. Visa process transaction growth was a healthy 11% in Q2, and rose to 14% for the first 21 days in April. Taken together, we are seeing a sustained economic recovery, but no signs yet of acceleration.

A word on Russia and Ukraine. We have clearly seen a drop off in cross-border volume, and sanctions are expected to have some impact on volume. Our guidance assumes several pennies of EPS impact for the fiscal year. We are fully engaged with all parties involved, and will continue to adjust our outlook as the situation clarifies over time.

Next call-out relates to our effective tax rate for the period. At 22% for the quarter, our rate was positively influenced by the recognition of tax benefits under IRS Section 199, which allows for the deduction of a portion of the income related to US domestically-produced computer software. As a reminder, successfully employing strategies to manage our tax rate lower has been a consistent component of our earnings guidance since we went public in 2008, and will continue to be in the future. The total benefit to the quarter was $218 million, $184 million of which represented prior years, and $17 million of benefit for each of the first two fiscal quarters.

We expect an additional $30 million to $35 million of benefit over the remaining two fiscal quarters, and a continuing benefit in future years. Accordingly, we are adding to our guidance for FY14 a full-year tax rate approaching 30%. Please note, this rate was contemplated in our full-year EPS guidance for FY14.

Last call-out. We remain bullish on our future growth prospects and fully committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders. To this end, we repurchased a total of 5.1 million shares during the quarter, at an average price per share of $217 and change, resulting in a total cost of $1.1 billion. This leaves an outstanding open-to-buy of $3 billion at the end of March. And as always, we will take advantage of market movements to effectively repurchase at attractive rates.

Now let me dive a little deeper into the numbers. As noted earlier, global payment volume growth for the March quarter in constant dollars was 12%. The US grew 8%, and international grew 16%.

Drilling down further for the March quarter, US credit growth was 11%, slightly higher than the 10% in Q1. Through April 21, credit improved to 14% growth. US debit was 7% in Q2, flat compared to Q1. And through April 21, debit also improved, rising to 11% growth.

As mentioned earlier, global cross-border volume delivered an 8% constant-dollar growth rate in the March quarter, down from 12% in the December quarter. The US grew 7%, and international grew 8%. Through April 21, cross-border volume on a constant-dollar basis grew 7%, with the US growing 8%, and international registering 7% growth.

Transactions processed over Visa 's network totaled 15.4 billion in the fiscal second quarter, an 11% increase over the prior-year period. The US grew 7%, while international delivered 23% growth. Through April 21, process transaction growth rose to 14%.

Now turning to the income statement. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $3.2 billion, a 7% increase year over year, driven primarily by growth in both domestic and international transactions. And as mentioned earlier, negatively impacted by a 2-percentage-point foreign currency headwind.

Moving to the individual revenue line items. Service revenue was $1.5 billion, up 7% over the prior year, and was driven by moderating global payment volume growth. The difference between the 7% reported revenue growth and the 12% growth in constant dollar payment volume is largely due to 3 percentage points of negative FX. Visa 's service fees are disproportionately impacted by foreign exchange translation, compared to other revenue lines.

Data processing revenue was $1.2 billion, up 7% over the prior year's quarter, based on solid growth rates in Visa process transaction, both in the US and internationally. The difference between 7% revenue growth and 11% transaction growth in the period was due to one-time FANF accrual reversals in the prior year, in combination with the influence of the fixed fee component associated with the FANF pricing structure that does not grow with transactions.

International transaction revenue was up 5%, to $871 million, reflecting some moderation of growth across the globe that first impacted us at the outset of calendar year 2014.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $1.1 billion, up 2% from the prior year. Certain expenses have been rephased to the Q3 and Q4 fiscal quarters. And as signaled last quarter, we continue to expect elevated marketing investments in Q3 and Q4 relative to Q1 tied to the 2014 FIFA World Cup event.

Operating margin, 65% for the second quarter, ahead of our annual guidance of low 60%s, but consistent with our expectations for higher expenses in the fiscal third and fourth quarters. That said, we now expect our full-year operating margin to be in the low to mid 60%s.

Capital expenditures were $97 million in the quarter. At the end of the March quarter, we had 629 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding on an as-converted basis. The weighted average number of fully diluted shares outstanding for the quarter totaled 634 million.

Finally, given our year-to-date results and our outlook for the balance of the year, let me recap our full-year guidance. Constant dollar net revenue growth, 10% to 11%, with 2 percentage points of negative FX impact. Client incentives in the 16.5% to 17.5% range. Operating margin in the low to mid 60%s. Tax rate, approaching 30%. EPS growth of mid to high teens. Free cash flow of about $5 billion.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF , CEO, VISA INC : Thanks a lot, Byron.

Good afternoon, everyone.

Let me start with a couple of comments about the quarter and reiterate some of the things that Byron had said. First of all, probably most importantly to us as we look at our results, underlying what we see, the business drivers for the most part remained steady from last quarter. Specifically, the US spending levels grew consistent with that of the prior quarter, not accelerating or decelerating, but still reasonably strong. And as Byron had mentioned, April is off to a strong start, which is certainly encouraging for us.

Non-US domestic spending grew to consistent levels as well, and non-US cross-border spending was weaker. And as Byron mentioned, it is from very specific corridors, which we can certainly talk more about.

Revenue growth came in where we expected. And as we mentioned, it was impacted by the strong US dollar and these nonrecurring comps from the prior year. And we expect these effects to be slightly more pronounced in the third quarter. And looking even beyond the third quarter, we would expect in the fourth quarter to see revenue growth more reflective of the strong payment volumes that continue to underpin our quarterly results.

Let me move now for a second, and just describe what we see in Russia. As I am sure you all know, the US government imposed economic sanctions a few weeks ago, which has forced us to take action. We are complying with US law, as you would expect, which means that two affected banks cannot issue for acquired transactions for Visa . These banks represent less than 1% of our volume in Russia. And you would expect that we would continue to comply with US law, as the sanction situation evolves. As of now, all of Visa 's systems are processing normally, and we continue to serve all of our other clients in Russia today.

Due to US sanctions, the Russian Duma is working on modifications to the current national payment system law. President Putin has directed the Duma to pass a series of changes, which could pass as early as tomorrow. The proposed modifications are revolving; but as we understand them, could include the following.

First of all, all domestic data processing would need to be onshore. Second, most domestic transaction data would need to remain domiciled within Russia. Third, a payment network must provide continuity of services in compliance with Russian law.

Fourth, the creation of a settlement center 100% owned by the Central Bank of Russia . Fifth, a collateral requirement for foreign payment systems. And lastly, the ability to impose fines on foreign payment system providers.

Keep in mind, this is all still fluid. And while none of this is certainly helpful for Visa if passed, parts might even cause us to rethink our domestic processing opportunity in Russia. But we are hopeful that there is still opportunity for Visa to participate in the growing electronic payments business in Russia.

We will not understand the impact on our business and potential future until the laws and regulations are completed. But we remain committed to finding ways to provide our services, as long as US government and Russian governments allow.

On the legal and regulatory front, not a lot to talk about this quarter. As I am sure you know, in late March, the US Court of Appeals for the DC Court ruled that the Federal Reserve acted properly in its interpretation of Dodd-Frank, a result which we are obviously pleased with.

A quick update on payments security and specifically industry collaboration. Last quarter I spoke at length about the need for the industry, defined broadly, to work together to create payment standards and improve security. We believe there is an opportunity for this collaboration to occur and are encouraged. We and MasterCard have formed a cross-industry working group to accelerate this joint collaboration.

The purpose is to work with a broad group of participants in the payments landscape, not just to move forward to more secure technologies in the short term, but to think in the long term as well. This includes driving EMV adoption. But it looks to create a clear roadmap for the future of payment security, inclusive of both physical, POS, as well as card-not-present transactions. The group will have representation of banks of all sizes, credit unions, acquirers, retailers, point-of-sale manufacturers, and industry trade groups. We also look forward to broad network participation so we can be as effective as possible.

On EMV specifically, First Data STAR Network, FIS's NYCE Network, Discover Financial Services PULSE Network, and other regional network providers have agreed to participate in the common debit solution that Visa introduced last year. The collaboration between Visa and our partners will help enable the deployment of debit EMV solutions. This is again an example of industry players working together to move payment security forward.

Let me talk for a second about tokenization. The standards, services and technologies we are working on will play an important role not just in security, but in enabling and securing new payment experiences in the online, mobile and face-to-face channels. We are making progress on our work towards getting it into the marketplace. The token standard that we, MasterCard and American Express jointly wrote and sponsored, has been adopted by EMVCo, the industry standards body, and is currently in a comment period across the other card networks, banks, and security industry groups.

We will be rolling out our token services capable of associating a limited use visa token, with an underlying card credential, and are working with issuers, processors and acquirers to introduce our first wave of token programs. You will see applications deployed within the next 12 months. And these tokens will play a role in our offerings, but also those of select strategic partner engagements ranging from remote online or mobile purchases to proximity mobile interactions.

We have also talked a great deal about our merchant efforts. We recently reorganized the Company to strengthen the outreach to our merchant partners. We are lucky to have hired Ramon Martin , a well-respected industry expert in payments, with a great deal of merchant knowledge. As an example, he has a history as a member of the Board of Directors of the National and Retail Federation. We are excited that he will lead our efforts, relative to our merchant strategy, and help deliver customized products and services, and look forward to discussing more specifics in the future.

Let me now just turn for a second, and just talk about small business merchants. We have made changes to our FANF structure, our Fixed Acquirer Network Fee, including modifications that are designed to lower, or in some cases eliminate, FANF on volume from small merchants with less than $15,000 in annual gross Visa sales.

Most importantly, we believe these changes could serve to expand the Visa acceptance among very small businesses. While eliminating the fees for smaller retailers, we are also making other adjustments to FANF to improve the alignment of these fees, regardless of whether a merchant connects to Visa through an acquirer, a processor, a payment facilitator or other party. We have also talked on these calls about rules in the past, and our efforts to simplify our operating regulations.

On October 1, we will be eliminating close to half of our operating rules. This includes reducing the complexity of our dispute resolution processes. And while we are making substantial changes now, we continue to get client feedback and will continue to introduce more changes beyond.

I am going talk for a second about Japan. I have spoken about two things here in the past, both the opportunity within Japan, but also the importance of growing our processing business globally. Just a reminder that although Japan is the third largest economy in the world by GDP, the number of payment cards and the market usage is still very low, only 14% of PCE and just 8% on Visa products.

Earlier this month, we acquired 100% ownership of GP Net, the joint venture that we founded with seven leading Japanese issuers back in 1995. As a result of having total control, we now control our domestic transaction processing activities. It will allow us to further integrate our processing and product solutions to merchants, acquirers and issuers, something that we are very excited about.

We are also very focused on the debit opportunity in Japan. While debit is still considered in its infancy stage, there is a meaningful opportunity for growth, given the large deposit base which exists in the banks from which to grow a debit business. As an example, this quarter we launched Visa debit with Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi , one of the three mega banks. Again, just one example of how are working collaboratively with the banks to target a very meaningful opportunity.

To conclude, let me just make a couple comments looking ahead. First of all, I continue to remain very excited about the opportunity that we have to continue growing the business. While the strengthening US dollar and difficult comps from the prior year have affected our reported revenue and will again next quarter, the underlying revenue growth of the business is strong. It will accelerate, as the economic recovery accelerates as well.

And most importantly, the long-term secular trends and our competitive position remain as strong as ever. And I am constantly reminded, that there is more cash to disintermediate today than when the Company went public in 2008.

And with that, Byron and I are glad to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question is from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW. Sir, your line is open.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Thank you. I guess, I just wanted some more context around some of the comments Byron had about the volumes. Byron, you talked about cross-border weakness being temporary, and seeing some firmness in the decline. Can you talk about what gives you comfort that we could rebound from here, or at least flatten out?

And then second, you talked about sustained economic growth, but not accelerating growth. Is that simply just by observing the absolute volume statistics? Or is there something else you are seeing underneath the covers that lead you to believe that it is more sustained, versus accelerating? Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT : So let me start with cross-border. We haven't seen single-digit cross-border growth rates since I would say, 2009. That was five years ago.

And given the underlying secular trends in our business, none of those are diminished. None of those are going away. As Charlie said there is more cash disintermediate today, note outside the US in particular, than there was when we went public. From our standpoint, we look at cross-border, the fundamentals are still in place. If recovered nicely from 2009.

We expect to -- so we expect to see the same -- hard to predict when, but -- and it may be a little early to call, given the April results. But by given the 4 percentage point drop we saw between the two quarters, and given the fundamentals underpinning this secular shift, our view is we could be reaching a bottoming out. And in any event looking forward, we would expect this to move north.

In terms of the broader economic question of sustained recovery, this is very much anchored in the volume trends we are seeing. Recognizing that there is modest, but if not weak job creation in the US At some point that will begin to accelerate, but what we are adding jobs.

So the underlying fundamentals that should inform and drive spend are in place. They are just in first gear. And so, that is our take on the environment. Charlie, would you like to add?

CHARLIE SCHARF : The only thing that I am going to add, back to the first part of the question on cross-border. As Byron and I both pointed out, the corridors that we are seeing the weakness are very, very specific places. So for instance, when you look at US cardholders traveling abroad that volume -- that -- those growth rates are actually flat quarter-to-quarter, which is obviously a good sign for US and the health of US consumer.

Again, very, very specific places, and not at all across every single geography. Which would give us more cause for concern.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Can I ask one more follow-up, if you don't mind? Embedded in your guidance, is what assumption around the cross-border growth for the rest of the year?

BYRON POLLITT : No acceleration.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Tien-Tsin Huang from JPMorgan Chase . Your line is open.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Great, thanks. Just first to clarify is revenue revision at the high end of the revenue outlook, is that really just explained by cross-border or is there something else? I just want to clarify.

And then just maybe on the Russia front, could you disclose how much it represents in terms of revenue today? And I am curious -- as a bigger picture question, sorry, to build on this. But maybe, Charlie, does this Russia situation sort of build this case that maybe more countries are going to consider creating their own domestic schemes, like the one that Putin is talking about? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT : I will tell you what, Tien-Tsin, could you re-ask your first question? I didn't actually understand it.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Yes, sorry. I am rambling a little bit, Byron Just the first question is simplistic, in a simple way.

Is the revenue revision in terms of you outlook -- I think you said it was 10% to 13% before, and now we are looking at 10% to 11% if I heard that correctly. Is the difference there just cross-border, or is there something else?

BYRON POLLITT : Yes. We would -- it is heavily driven by cross-border. We would also add that US debit downshifted more than we had anticipated when we constructed the original range. And so, those are the -- I would say those the two primary.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Understood. And the Russia stuff?

BYRON POLLITT : And on the Russia, let me answer the first part of the question, which is the revenue part. And then, I will turn it back over to Charlie for the second part.

When we said that there were several pennies of impact, you may attribute 100% of that to revenue. And we didn't put any expense offset against that. So it would be the revenue equivalent in this fiscal year heavily weighted -- just looking 90% weighted to fiscal Q's 3 and 4.

CHARLIE SCHARF : And the only thing I would just, on that point and going to your last point, Tien-Tsin, is remember, we don't know exactly what our position will be in the marketplace. So the issues that exist really today relate to domestic processing within Russia.

We still think, by the way that there is meaningful reasons why the Russian government should want ourselves and the other established networks to participate there. And so, we are not assuming that it is in the best interest of them, for us not to want to be there.

And away from the domestic business, there is obviously a very big part of our opportunity there is cross-border. Which is you know is extremely hard to build a cross border brand and processing assets in a short period of time. So again, we really are still trying to understand ourselves exactly how this could play itself out. But still are hopeful that we still have a meaningful opportunity to continue to participate in the growing electronic payments business in Russia.

And then, more broadly last part, on your question on national payment systems. Certainly this -- the activities within Russia get people thinking about what it means for them. I am not sure how many parts of the world are actually contemplating the types of activities that Russia has taken upon themselves to bring about the sanctions, which certainly should factor into people's minds.

But as you know, there are national payment schemes in different part of the world that we compete with. And we firmly believe that what we have to offer, goes well beyond what a national payment scheme can offer, in terms of the capabilities of out network, our global acceptance, our abilities to be accepted across all channels, fraud screening. I mean, we can go on and on with the list.

And so, we are used to competing. And as long as there is the opportunity to compete, then we feel okay about the prospects. But certainly, it's an issue.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Makes sense. Thank you.

JACK CARSKY : Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Bryan Keane of Deutsche Bank .

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Hello. Just a couple questions.

One, just the down shift in US debit, and then obviously the lower cross-border volume. Is any of that impacted by a share shift or share loss, or do you think that is all economically driven?

And secondly, just a clarification on Russia. Is the couple pennies that you are talking about in earnings hit, is that 100% of Russia going away? Or is that just the piece you think is going away, due to the written proposal, the legislation that Charlie highlighted? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT : On US debit, it is, and we expect it to continue to be a pretty competitive space, without full access to all the other debit spend just yet. Hard to know whether there is any shift going on, but we think that there is -- there has been a downshift in debit spend. We saw some of it occur right after the Target breach.

And so, this is one where we will just have to see it play out. We are very encouraged by the spike that -- post-Easter. So I think let's -- we will stay with this question over the next couple of quarters, and get better informed.

Cross-border, we don't think so, in terms of share shift. When you revert back to very specific corridors, very specific countries that have regulatory and tax events, namely in Brazil and Argentina, manipulation of exchange rates by the Venezuelan government. Those things are going to impact everybody, and so we don't think there is a sense of share shift their. This is just something much more fundamental to cross-border travel and it should impact all.

With regards to Russia, a portion of the downshift in revenue growth is very clearly cross-border. In the quarter leading up to the Crimea crisis, we began to see a downshift in Russian travel. But it was modest deceleration. It then dropped quite a bit further after the Crimea crisis unfolded.

This is a level of travel that -- this country generates a level of cross-border travel that if things, quote, return back to normal -- whatever that is in the future -- we could easily see a rebound in Russia -- Russian cross-border. We have got some placeholders in for sanction effects that could be ongoing. But honestly, as Charlie said, it's way too early to call this. The situation is very much fluid at the moment, and we will keep you updated as we progress.

Charlie, do you want to add?

CHARLIE SCHARF : No, I think that is fine.

JACK CARSKY : Next question.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Glenn Fodor of Autonomous Research. Your line is open.

GLENN FODOR, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: Thanks for taking the question. Appreciate all the color on a confusing situation like Russia.

But Charlie, turning to an issuer you know very well. During the quarter, Chase gave a little more color on what they are doing with Chase Net to now. We have the largest wallet initiative out there, among the large issuer's.

So just thinking about it, if this initiative takes hold, and other -- and is successful for them, and other large issuers start considering the same strategy, what do you think it means for your efforts with V.me? And I am sure this issue comes up in your discussions with large issuers. Can you shed some light on how they reconcile the thoughts between their own initiatives on wallets and V.me? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Sure. Listen, I can't speak for every issuer, or certainly I can't -- I cannot speak for Chase as well. But I can tell you from our point of view is we are fairly agnostic, as to whether it's our wallet or someone else's wallet, as long as our cards are appropriately represented on a fair and level playing field. And in the case of Chase, whether it's our cards or whether it runs over VisaNet or their version of VisaNet , again we view those as our transactions.

So to the extent that other issuers choose to want to go build their own wallets, we will be supportive of that. But that doesn't stop us from continuing to build our wallet capabilities, which I don't like to use the word for wallet. I like to use the word, digital acceptances way to think about what we try to build. So that every bank out there, and can serve its customers properly in digital commerce with digital acceptance.

So hope that answers your question.

JACK CARSKY : Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Daniel Perlin of RBC Capital Markets . Your line is open.

DANIEL PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. So just quickly, I thought I heard you say Charlie, there -- that you are dropping -- on October 1, you are eliminating say 50% of your operating rules. Is that -- ?

CHARLIE SCHARF : That's correct.

DANIEL PERLIN: Okay. And so, what I was try to get at, I guess, in that question is, what is it that I guess you're hoping to achieve by simplifying that? I know it is a big part of a strategy that you have highlighted in the past. But I am wondering, is that if that hope that it's going to come with incremental volumes, and the retailers are looking to this? And you have also adjusted the FANF fee for small merchants.

So I am just trying to understand from a bigger perspective, what is it that you are hoping to gain by changing half of your operating rules? That is a pretty significant change.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Sure. Listen, I think all of these things that you pointed out, in addition to the operating regs, go towards the point of -- I think most people would tell you, whether you were an issuer or merchant or an acquirer, people would say that historically, that we were probably pretty difficult to deal with.

And we operate in a very competitive world today. People have choices, both established choices and have the opportunity to think of other -- other ways to process payments. And we want people to enjoy doing business with us, and to think that we treat them openly fairly and clearly.

And our operating regs, which I have got the version -- they are sitting on my desk, it is 16 -- actually 1,538 pages pre our changes. Okay? And so, imagine trying to be -- you are an issuer or an acquirer and you have got to live by those.

And so, simplification, redundancy, helping people understand what it means to do business with us. As well as going out -- and what we have been doing is asking, again issuers, acquirers, merchants what don't you like, and what doesn't make sense? And a big part of the feedback that we received was on chargebacks, and the processes that we have put in place, the reporting requirements, documentation, and things like that.

So we are very committed to continuing to support the integrity of our brand, the integrity of the payment system security, and things that go towards the quality of our network. But we have to be the kind of place that people say, I understand the rules. I understand what it means to do business with you, and you don't have a bunch of things buried on page 1,427 that they didn't understand. That in combination with these other things, again, I think just if I was on the other side, trying to figure out who I would want to do business with, this is the way I would want to be treated. And that is the way we are approaching it.

DANIEL PERLIN: Got it. Thank you.

JACK CARSKY : Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from James Friedman of SIG. Your line is open.

JAMES FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP / SIG: I wanted to ask you about NACHA, and the prospects for acceleration in ACH, either Charlie or Byron. If you could help us think about the competitive dynamics, in the instance that ACH were to be accelerated, how if at all might impact your business?

BYRON POLLITT : Sure. So I guess, I would start with this, which is -- we, our -- the differences between the established payment networks have, and what ACH is, the differences are huge. It's not just the frequency of settlement.

It's the underlying ease-of-use, it is the ability to integrate within your systems. It is the data that we have collected, and then enable both issuers acquirers and merchants to use it in a way, which is good for risk purposes. Scorings that we developed.

We have a whole series of capabilities that again, we have all developed over 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, 40 years that really is not easily replicable. Our view is that certainly the issuers understand the benefits of working with that in this ecosystem. They control the customer relationships. And so, we are very confident in the position that we have, and the ability to differ -- differentiate our services versus what ACH can do.

And I think if you look at some of the big players that use ACH, and actually track through ACH and see well, how does it actually impact the customer experience? It is a terrible experience for the customer, as opposed to a network like ours. In the environment that we live in today, and the way banks are viewing the importance of their customer relationships, it's just another differentiator that we have. So we love the position that we have relative to ACH.

JAMES FRIEDMAN: Thank you.

JACK CARSKY : Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Don Fandetti of Citigroup . Your line is open.

DONALD FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP : Yes, Byron. Just given the slowdown in cross-border, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the relative revenue yield?

My understanding is in the US the yield is pretty high, compared to domestic. I mean, is there a difference between let's say, Lat Am and Asia? Can you talk a little bit about that.

BYRON POLLITT : There are differences, and there are different practices with regards to yields across the globe. We typically don't get into that level of detail. I -- to be a little helpful in this arena, to the extent that there is strong growth by US cardholders, that it is a strong consistent yield from an area of the world that is particularly well-positioned to grow cross-border, because of the strength of the US dollar.

You will note that when we referenced the cross-border weakness before, we called out a specific corridor, it was Canada to the US The US to Canada corridor is doing just fine. And as Charlie said, the outbound travel by US cardholders has remained quite strong. And so, I will leave the color at that.

JACK CARSKY : Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from David Hochstim of Buckingham Research. Your line is open.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Yes, thanks. I wonder, can just you give us an update on what's happening with Cybersource? There is a little bit of deceleration in volume growth, and V.me findings too.

BYRON POLLITT : Okay. I will take the CyberSource.

So there has been some deceleration in the growth of Cybersource. We contribute that specifically to two large customers or clients that were -- that we lost in FY13, and we are starting to see the impacts of that in 2014. That said, we are very bullish on Cybersource. We recognize the issue.

We are investing significant sums to upgrade and add to the features of our CyberSource platform, both for large enterprise businesses, as well as for small businesses. We are actively adding people to this business. So our enthusiasm remains robust. I will caution that it will take several quarters, before we can get this turned around, but we remain very bullish and very confident on the outlook of Cybersource's future with Visa .

CHARLIE SCHARF : And let me take V.me. As I think I have talked to on the priors call, we have learned an awful lot since our initial rollout of V.me, and we have altered our approach to really take away all the functionality, other than what I described before as meaningful digital acceptance.

And so, we are getting really excellent feedback from merchants and issuers alike. We have actually rolled out the first phase of the new platform a few months ago, and we have begun launching it with those merchants. Is incredibly -- it is hugely more simple for them to actually integrate into their checkout experience, literally days as opposed to months.

And the new integrations that we have include Lulu, Lemon, AutoZone , Petco, and The Wine Enthusiast. But probably more exciting, those are terrific names, but that we have also executed term sheets or master service agreements, with an additional 38 large merchants, which represent almost $60 billion in adjustable volume, 23 of those merchants are actually in the internet retailer top 100.

So we are going to continuing to press forward. We have a much better solution in the market, and it's resonating.

JACK CARSKY : Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Craig Maurer of CLSA. Your line is open

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Yes, hello. Thanks. A couple things.

Regarding -- just I want to clarify -- so your EPS guidance fully contemplates the tax benefit you received in the quarter. Please clarify that.

And secondly, regarding Russia, should we see the changes to law that you that discussed earlier, specifically related to the basically trapping data and transaction flow and whatnot within Russia. Is your current network structure capable of doing that as of tomorrow? Or because, if I remember correctly, you were in a hub and spoke network, where your data flows back through the states? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT : Let me take the tax and EPS question first. The direct answer to your question is yes. The tax benefit that we recorded this quarter was contemplated in our full-year guidance. That said, let me just provide a bit of perspective.

When we give guidance, as we did at the beginning of the fiscal year -- so this was back in October, we -- our style is to offer guidance without caveat and without excuse. And so, when we give guidance, it is naturally broader and has to take into a number of unknowns, and you make educated judgments on how the year would unfold.

The rate of economic recovery, unknown. Cross-border impacts, given a stronger US dollar and currency movements, unknown. Cross-border impacts due to global tensions, unknown.

The thing about taxes, is that as you get into a lower -- the range where we currently are operating on taxes, this becomes more initiative driven, as opposed to where your operating throughout the country -- throughout the world. And so, as these initiatives -- as this one often take several years to research, prepare, before recording. And so, the timing of these is often outside of our immediate control, and therefore unknown with regards to when we can actually take them.

And so, all of these things are contemplated. We did contemplate including tax.

We also began the year with a range of revenue that was low double-digits constant dollar, which was 10% to 13%. Had be delivered in 12% to 13% constant dollar, as opposed to what we are now seeing given other impacts in other areas of 10% to 11%, then we would have been at the upper end -- certainly at the upper end of our guidance, if not a little above, because more than one factor is playing out in our favor to a greater degree, than we might have contemplated in the beginning. So that's the context.

Charlie, Russia?

CHARLIE SCHARF : So let me -- just a second, so I am the Russian expert here.

So on the question again, I just want to reiterate, to be clear, that the law is still evolving. It -- as it gets read, it does evolve and get -- and there are changes that occur from day-to-day. And then once the law is actually passed, there do have to be regulations to coincide with those laws before they get implemented.

So there is some things in the law, which they would be relatively quick implementation. There are other things, which I think some of the dates go out until 2016.

To answer your specific question, today we do not have the ability in a very quick way to deploy a separate version of VisaNet in a specific country. Having said that, we do have instances where we can start to move parts of it, whether authorization is much easier for us to do, than entire clearing and settlement. And is certainly something that we are capable of building, even though it might take a little bit of time.

But also remember -- and I think this is critical -- because you have got very much -- we are caught between the politics of the United States and the politics of Russia. But if you just get down to reality for a second, we have 100 million cards in Russia today. Okay? We have 100 million cards there, and it is not in anyone's best interest inclusive of the Russians, to make those cards not available to their own citizens.

And so, that is why we are hopeful that as the situation unfolds that, the people understand things like that. And that to the extent that they believe it is important to build a national payment system, it can be done in a way where there is the appropriate transition. And we have the ability to figure out whether it makes sense to compete in that marketplace. But there would be unlikely that unless there is some draconian things that are passed, that it wouldn't evolve in a way like that.

CRAIG MAURER: Just on that point, because I think this is important, looking out concerning the NSA concerns and whatnot. If they did go ahead and make those changes, have you contemplated the length of time it would take to restructure your network to comply, because this could apply in the future to how China opens up. And we know that your biggest competitor is already there with the technology in place. So if it was a short window given, a conversion could theoretically be done away from you?

CHARLIE SCHARF : Okay. So two different things. Number one is, absolutely we have done an awful lot of work, and you can assume that we are preparing, for everything that we should prepare to. The second is, I would just caution you, to make the statement that others can comply.

CRAIG MAURER: Okay. Thank you.

JACK CARSKY : Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from David Togut of Evercore. Your line is open.

DAVID TOGUT , ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS : Thank you very much. Can you give us an update on the size of the commercial card as a percentage of total volumes? And give us also a sense of the growth rate, and whether that has been affected at all, by the issues you brought forward today.

BYRON POLLITT : On the first part of your question, no. I -- investor relations could give you an update on that afterwards. Let me just quickly look.

Commercial payment volume growth, we can give you a perspective from the US. And since, the beginning of the calendar year, it has been low double-digit growth -- very high single to low double-digit growth consistently January, February, March with an uptick in April.

DAVID TOGUT : Thank you.

JACK CARSKY : Next question?

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Darrin Peller of Barclays . Your line is open.

DARRIN PELLER , ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL : Thanks. I just want to shift gears to margins for a minute. The personnel expense came in below our estimates, and you also raised your outlook for margins to the mid-60%s, versus low 60%s previously. First, is there anything new that is driving the change versus your initial expectation, and can we expect that to really continue off of a new base being mid-60%s now into future years?

And then, just a quick housekeeping question, Byron. I know you that -- you showed metrics into April 21. Most of them look like they were expanding or accelerating.

Just what impacted Easter actually half, given the timing in April this year versus last year? I don't know if you said that on the call before? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT : We didn't. What I said on the call, beginning with the April results is that it is very clear. I have been in a form of retail for 18 years before coming to Visa .

The Easter impact is absolutely a phenomena that exists. Typically, you look at the run rate going in, the run rate going out. You compare to the prior year. We are several weeks away from being able to do that metric. But the lift -- part of the lift is certainly due to Easter.

It is also sensible, that part of the lift could well be a return to more normal weather. It is very hard to isolate specific weather impacts. But we have done a lot of work around those states in the US for example, that had much more severe weather the normal versus those that didn't.

The growth rates -- there is a clear delta in the growth rates. Some of it, but not all of it mitigated by eCommerce. So as we get back to more normal periods post-Easter, post-weather, I think we will see more normalized growth rate, and one that may very well have some pent-up demand fueling it.

With regards to expenses, the -- at some point predictably, as we continue to invest aggressively in extending our network, the reach of our network, like a Cybersource those -- that investment will come with margins that are not -- that are attractive, or we wouldn't invest, but they are not going to be in the 60%s. We have not reached that inflection point yet. And so, that's why you saw us on the margin move up the -- from low 60%s to low to mid 60%s.

And with regards to personnel, if you think about it when we went public in 2008, we had 4,000 plus employees. Today we have 10,000. And so, in the span of a little over five years, we have more than doubled our employee base, and we go in surges.

We digest. We optimize. We go forward. We will continue to invest in talent, which is a key driver of our success. And we would expect growth off of the personnel base that you see today, despite the more than doubling of our personnel over the past five years.

JACK CARSKY : Adrian, at this point, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Our final question is from Jennifer Dugan of Sterne Agee.

JENNIFER DUGAN, ANALYST, STERNE, AGEE & LEACH : Thank you. Most of my questions have been answered. But I was wondering, could you give us a little bit more color on the expected fiscal 2015 revenue impact, from the Chase conversion that is going to happen towards the end of the year?

BYRON POLLITT : At this point, we would it -- we do expect it to have an impact. It should not be -- it is a valued and important addition to our business.

I think to the extent that, we wouldn't give color on that specifically. But we do expect it to start showing up in the first fiscal quarter. And I will just remind the group, some of the conversions are taking place today, and will pick up pace -- are expected to pick up pace as the year unfolds.

But to the extent that, that revenue shows up in service fees, we book our service fees on a one quarter lag. So any conversions that take place say, in the fourth fiscal quarter, the service fees won't show up until the first fiscal quarter of FY15.

JACK CARSKY : And with that, we would like to thank everybody for joining us today. If anybody has follow-up questions, feel free to call Investor Relations. Have a nice evening.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation. This concludes today's conference, and you may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | crimea : Crimea | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | ukrn : Ukraine | ussrz : CIS Countries
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140426ea4o009kk
  


 HD
 Q1  2014  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,828 words
   PD
30 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the Visa Incorporated 's fiscal Q1 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky , Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

   TD
JACK CARSKY , HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC .: Thanks, Marcella. Good morning everyone and welcome to Visa Inc .'s fiscal first-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.

With us today are Charlie Scharf , Visa's Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt , Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast over the Internet and can be accessed on the investor relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. PowerPoint deck containing financial and statistical highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results could materially differ as a result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning these factors is available in our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q which you can find on the SEC website and the investor relations section of Visa's website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed on this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release. This release can also be accessed through the IR section of our website.

With that I will now turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT , CFO, VISA INC .: Thank you, Jack. We will begin my call with the usual callouts and observations. First, let me start with payment volume and cross-border trends.

The December quarter on a constant dollar basis grew payment volume at 11%, down 2 percentage points from the September quarter. This softening was led by a 2 percentage point drop in the US from 10% to 8% with the holiday spend consistent with a continuing US economic recovery but at a growth rate we would describe as tepid. US results for the first 21 days of January were consistent with the December quarter.

International payment volume growth rates in the December quarter remained healthy in the midteens.

On the cross-border front, growth picked up 1 percentage point from the September quarter with both US and international on the uptick. That said, January appears to be giving back some of the heightened cross-border activity we saw in the month of December.

Second callout. Let me begin by saying that we are affirming all our guidance metrics outlined on our October call. With that as perspective, I would like to elaborate on our net revenue growth guidance.

Our guidance calls for low double digits on a constant dollar basis offset by about 2 percentage points of negative FX. We define low double digits as 10% to 13%. This means on an as recorded or nominal basis, growth is expected to be in the 8% to 11% range after FX impacts. On the FX front after adjusting for hedges, we expect about 2 percentage points of negative impact in all four fiscal quarters.

Given Visa's relevant basket of currencies, the forward rates indicate continued strengthening of the US dollar through the balance of the fiscal year.

Drilling down a bit further, a stronger US dollar versus the currencies for Japan, Brazil, Australia, and Canada and more recently Argentina and Venezuela have driven our headwind. In contrast, while the euro has strengthened versus the US dollar, the absence of Europe from Visa Inc .'s geographic portfolio has muted this potential benefit.

Staying with revenue but switching gears, the quarterly growth rates for the balance of the year are expected to vary with softer growth rates in Q2 and Q3 followed by an uptick in Q4. This cadence is driven by the following, the lapping of particularly strong revenue growth rates in Q2 and Q3 of the prior year which benefited from low levels of client incentives and certain nonrecurring pricing actions all of which were called out in last year's earnings calls.

In contrast, Q4 of last year had a disproportionate share of the fiscal year's client incentives which is a pattern that at this point in the year we do not expect to repeat.

Third callout relates to the quarterly cadence for marketing expense. With the Winter Olympics rapidly approaching and World Cup soon to follow, we expect a significant uptick in marketing spend in Q2 and Q3 versus our spend in Q1 followed by a downshift in Q4. This of course will have an impact on quarterly operating margins.

Fourth callout is the return of litigation escrow funds from those merchants opting out of the recently approved class-action settlement, the dynamics of which we covered at our Investor Day in June and reiterated last quarter. On January 27, $1.1 billion was returned to us and was deposited back into our litigation escrow account. The receipt of the payment increases our current taxable income by $1.1 billion and income tax payable by $387 million.

While it has no direct effect on our income statement, it negatively impacts our free cash flow over the last three quarters of fiscal 2014. This event was fully contemplated and is reflected in our full-year guidance of about $5 billion in free cash flow. To be clear, the return of the actual escrow funds is not included in our free cash flow but the impact of higher cash taxes is included.

Last callout, as always we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders. To this end, we repurchased a total of 5.5 million shares during the quarter at an average price per share of $199 and change. This leaves an outstanding open to buy of 4.2 billion.

Now let's turn to the numbers. I will cover our global payment volume and process transaction trends for the fiscal first quarter followed by our results through January 21. I will then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal first quarter.

Global payment volume growth for the December quarter in constant dollars was 11% modestly below the September quarter's 13%. The US grew 8% and international grew 15%. More recently in the US through January 21, payment volume continued at 8%.

Drilling down further, US credit was 10% in both Q1 and through January 21 compared to 11% in Q4. Similarly, US debit grew at 7% in both Q1 and through January 21 compared to 10% in Q4. Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 12% constant dollar growth rate in the December quarter, up modestly from the 11% rate in the September quarter. The US grew 11% and international 13% in constant dollars.

Through January 21, cross-border volume on a constant dollar basis grew 10% with a US growth rate of 9% and international 11%. Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled $16 billion in the fiscal first quarter, a 13% increase over the prior year period. The US grew 9% while international delivered 26% growth. Through January 21, process transaction growth was 11%.

Now turning to the income statement. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $3.2 billion, an 11% increase year-over-year driven primarily by solid growth globally in both domestic and international transactions and as mentioned earlier, negatively impacted by a 2% FX headwind.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.4 billion up 9% over the prior year and was driven by solid global payment volume growth. Data processing revenue, $1.3 billion up 13% over the prior year's quarter based on solid growth rates in Visa process transactions both in the US and internationally.

International transaction revenue was up 11% to $891 million reflecting an ongoing broad-based strength in cross-border volume.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $1.1 billion, up 3% from the prior year. Given the earlier discussion on the cadence of marketing spend, we expect expense growth in Q2 and Q3 to be somewhat higher versus Q1. Operating margin was 66% for the first quarter, ahead of our yearly guidance of low 60s but consistent with our expectations. We expect Q1 to be our lowest quarter for operating expense in fiscal 2014.

Our effective tax rate for Q1 was 32.4%, capital expenditures were $120 million in the quarter. At the end of the quarter, we had 634 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding on an as converted basis and the weighted average number of fully diluted shares outstanding for the quarter totaled 639 million.

Finally as noted earlier, our full-year guidance metrics for revenue growth, client incentives, operating margin, EPS growth and free cash flow remain unchanged.

With that I will turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF , CEO, VISA INC .: Thank you very much, Byron, and good morning to everyone. First let me just start by saying that we feel very good about the strong financial performance during the quarter as Byron had mentioned, solid revenue growth, solid net income growth and solid earnings per share growth.

Global payment volume as you can see from the numbers is relatively strong. Holiday spend in the US was better than reported as we were going through the holiday season and was certainly impacted by the shorter calendar. It was extremely uneven as we were going through it and the continued movement from face to face to digital purchases was extremely meaningful.

Just give you some updates on the legal and regulatory fronts. As I'm sure you have read on December 13, US District Judge Gleeson granted final approval of the merchant litigation cases. As part of the settlement, Visa and the other defendants received a comprehensive release of liability to the claims in the lawsuit as well as protection against further litigation regarding interchange and other US rules. As expected, a number of objectors to the settlement have appealed.

We at Visa are very focused on concluding these disagreements and on building our efforts to enter into a better relationship with the entire merchant community, identifying new ways to enable them to differentiate themselves and their experience and their customer experiences and competing more effectively.

Also about two weeks ago the US Court of Appeals for the DC District -- I'm sorry for the DC Circuit heard oral arguments in the Fed's appeal of Judge Leon's decision in the challenge to the Durbin regulations. While it is our to make any courtroom predictions as we all know we are pleased with the hearing. We continue to believe that the government has a strong case on appeal.

Let me move on and just talk for a second about some topics of interest and start with the recent industry data breaches.

First of all, we understand that these events are terrible for everyone affected, everyone is the merchant, the issuer, the acquirer, the networks but most importantly, the consumer and while the consumers are generally protected by the network rules of zero liability, meaning they are not responsible for any fraud due to the breach, we have to realize that these compromises are disturbing to them, they are inconvenient and they raise broader data security concerns that the entire industry must solve.

Unfortunately many merchants issuers and both of their lobbyists are attempting to assign blame in the press and not reacting in a particularly constructive manner and it is in all of our best interest that change quickly. Within the payments ecosystem, the impact on the merchant, the acquirer, the issuer and the network are all equally negative, we all share the same customer who is going through this difficult experience and our sales and long-term relationships with that customer will suffer if we don't work together to get to a better place.

The appropriate way to respond to this issue is for all parties to jointly work together towards better data security standards, better payment security standards. Maintaining trust in the electronic payment systems is our highest priority and we are actively exploring new ways to enhance the safety and security of the payment system.

To that end, we do believe it is critical that we make progress toward the implementation of EMV chip in the US. We can't do this on our own, we need merchants, acquirers and issuers to be supportive. We know it is expensive, it means new cards, new terminals and new software development but as we can all see, it is necessary. It is our hope that all issuers and merchants will migrate to EMV but we also understand that it is complex, there are an awful lot of terminals out there, an awful lot of cards that have to be updated and this has to be done in a way that does not disturb commerce.

In 2011, we had announced a plan to migrate the US to EMV technology through a liability shift beginning in October 2015 and we have reaffirmed these dates. EMV to be clear, would potentially eliminate the ability to reproduce the card and thereby reduce if not eliminate counterfeit fraud at the point of sell. But it is also important to note that it is equally imperative that the industry move toward tokenization which should be equally effective at reducing or eliminating card not present fraud.

As we work towards a better solution, we are also redoubling our efforts to make sure that consumers understand that they are protected. We have invested in national advertising to reassure customers of zero liability fraud protection. These important protections shield our consumers in the US from bearing any fraud loss after data compromise as I said before.

We are also focused on making sure that there is clarity affect with the media and in Washington. I'm personally concerned about the amount of misinformation you read in the public domain from confusion around who incurs the cost of fraud losses to the misrepresentative lack of payment system security. This is misleading, inaccurate and not helpful and can have unintended public policy consequences.

We are actively engaged with policymakers in Washington DC along with our partners to ensure that they actually hear the facts and understand the multiple layers of infrastructure that protect the payment system.

Let me just switch topics for a second and just talk for a second about V.me, which we have done in several calls. On the last quarterly call, I spoke about our efforts to simplify what we are building. Since launching it, we have learned valuable lessons as we have talked about to accelerate the success in the marketplace and better meet the needs of what our issuers and merchants actually want in the marketplace. We have been working hard to evolve the product in response to what we have heard from them which is to simplify the merchant integration and focus on the simplicity of consumer card payments for online and mobile transactions.

We are pleased that the work is now coming to market with the first phase of our redesigned platform released last week providing merchants with faster integration and easier time to market. I can share now that Joseph Bank, Ticketmaster , AutoZone , Petco will be some of the first merchants to go live with V.me through this new simplified integration. These new merchants join the strong group of existing merchants and financial institutions already offering V.me to their consumers which represent over $13 billion in spend and approximately 300 million in addressable cards.

We have talked about that our success here at Visa does depend on the strength of our relationships with all parties in the payment system. We value all of those relationships and we continue to work hard to solidify those relationships. As we have talked about, we reorganized the Company last year to strengthen our outreach to all of those constituents. To that end we have made good progress and our track record of winning or renewing issuer in co-brand contracts is excellent.

Let me just talk for a second about our co-brand business because we've gotten a series of questions from that as we have met with you all.

Let me just talk about the US because the US is by far and away the majority of where the co-brand market and just talk about some of the facts for us in our fiscal 2013 year looking backwards. Just remember, we have the leading co-brand market share. Most co-brands do not go to RFP and when we look on a volume weighted basis at our renewals we renewed about 95% of our current co-brand deals that were actually up for renewal. We also won about 60% of new co-brand deals on a volume weighted basis.

As we said at Investor Day, seven of the top US co-brands are majority of Visa. So you look at those numbers, we are very pleased with the business that we have had and the rate of success that we continue to have in the marketplace and our co-brand pipeline is very healthy in fiscal 2014 and beyond as we look ahead.

Let me just change gears for a second and just share with you some facts about our new platform, Everywhere You Want To Be, which is the new integrated campaign that communicates our vision and how our brand is positioned for the future. Those of you who have been covering us for awhile may remember we once used the tag line -- Visa, it's everywhere you want to be -- to reflect the growing presence of Visa in merchant locations across the United States. Today the new global campaign allows us to expand what everywhere means and build upon historical equities of the brand.

We are bringing this new Visa brand and our mark to life gradually starting with Olympic themed advertising in the U.S. and a rollout to more markets and audiences around the world starting in March.

So I'm going to conclude just by reaffirming our view here of how excited we are about the future and the opportunity. We have talked about the secular opportunity to penetrate cash and check and how healthy that opportunity is across the entire globe. We continue to work on innovation, being flexible and adaptive in the world we live in both for our existing customers and continuing to open up the network on the edges to embrace the change that is going on around us.

And with that, I am going to open up the floor to questions for Byron and myself.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Tim Willi, Wells Fargo .

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES : Thank you and again appreciate all of the color and commentary you offered. Wanted to get your thoughts if you could on -- just where your thoughts around bitcoin, obviously that is sort of the new rage. We get a lot of questions from investors I'm sure you do as well. But can you just talk about how you think about it, whether it is something that potentially could be a broad consumer application or if it is more of a niche around cross-border business or just how you might think about that and how Visa might interact or support that or not at all? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Sure. I guess I would start with it is early days in terms of what bitcoin is and what it will be. We are certainly paying attention to it. It is very early to understand exactly what all of the implications are for it. We will say when we look at our network and the people that we compete with in terms of what people think of the traditional network, the established network rules we have, the understanding of how things operate, understanding who the participants are, the fact that business that we do has financial institutions on either side of the transaction, the success of our payment system and our primary competitors is that for a reason. And there are certainly some interesting things about bitcoin and other things like it but there are also a great deal of complexities.

People talk about things like frictionless and things like that and when you actually dig through it, it is really not the case, it is far more complex than that. We feel very comfortable with the business that we have here.

OPERATOR: Bob Napoli, William Blair.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good morning. A question on security. I guess -- and I am sure that you don't have all the answers on this but if you had -- if EMV had been in place, would it have prevented some of the recent breaches? And just in line with the trend in security, it seems like there are these dates out there that tend to get pushed back. Do you think that the breach at Target and others is really going to -- do you sense it is going to drive the adoption of EMV and other security faster than it otherwise would have? Are you seeing action taking place that wasn't happening 30 days ago?

CHARLIE SCHARF : Well, on the second part of your question I think the answer is yes. People don't live in a vacuum and when you see the kinds of breaches that have occurred recently, it gets everyone focused on making sure that we are doing all that we can to minimize any potential fraud in the future. And so the dates that we had set out are the dates that we are going to stick with.

Again, it requires people to do a lot of work which we understand but we think it is good for the payment system, for the ultimate end-user which means it will ultimately be good for all of us in the process.

On your first piece, remember first of all in terms of what actually has happened with the breaches that we have read about, not all the facts are out yet so it is a little premature for all of us to talk about what would have solved it. I think it is fair to say that as best we can tell some of the breaches that you have read about don't relate to the payment systems at all, they relate to breaches within companies' server environments for some personal information. So EMV would obviously have nothing to do with that.

To the extent that there were breaches occurring on the point-of-sale device, it is probable that the account number possibly would have been able to be compromised but the ability to reuse that account number to create a new card to use that card at a physical point-of-sale on a fraudulent basis would not be possible. Would still be possible to use that account number potentially at card not present which is why it is important that the industry also continue to push forward with tokenization. Hopefully that helps.

BOB NAPOLI: Thank you.

CHARLIE SCHARF : You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Tom McCrohan , Janney Capital Markets.

TOM MCCROHAN , ANALYST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT: Thanks for taking the question. Is V.me being positioned as a mobile wallet long term or is it more kind of a tender type for e-commerce transactions, something more like a PayPal ?

CHARLIE SCHARF : I think of V.me very simply as a way for our customers to have an easy way to make payments online with their general purpose credit card through user name and password. So people like to ask is it a wallet, is that this, is it that? It is really not that complicated. It is when you are buying on your computer, your tablet or on your mobile device, right now it is not easy to get from the beginning of the checkout process to the end of the checkout process using our products and V.me is just an easy way to check out using user name and password and not having to enter your account number, the expiration date, shipping address and all that other kind of stuff.

Whether it is something called V.me or it is with another solution, we are indifferent we just want our cards to be able to help enable commerce in the digital world online.

OPERATOR: Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan .

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN : Thanks. I just had a quick follow-up on the breach and then I had a cross-border question. Just on the breach, any risk of indirect impact from consumer confidence changing maybe in terms of usage of card, maybe mix shift to credit or just reissuance risk in general?

On cross-border, I know there's a lot of discussion in the market around emerging markets, FX volatility. Can that have any impact on cross-border activity or profitability? What should we be considering there?

Lastly, cross-border on the World Cup front and with the Olympics, is that big enough to show up in cross-border volumes? Sorry for all the questions. Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Why don't I start with the first. Consumer confidence in using the cards which we pay very close attention to, continues to still look very, very good. We have actually done our own surveys starting at the time of the breach. One of the reasons why we ran the advertising that we ran to make sure that consumers understand that while again it is unpleasant and not something we want them to go through, they are actually protected. And in terms of what we have seen in our actual payment results and in these surveys, things continue to look pretty good for us.

BYRON POLLITT : On the cross-border front, logic would say that the -- depending on how currencies move, it should have an impact on cross-border. The way it tends to materialize and the way we typically think about it is by quarter and yet what we saw this past quarter despite a strengthening, a broad strengthening of the US dollar, there was actually strong traffic to the United States and strong spend, cross-border spend, from countries where the currencies were somewhat weaker relative to the US dollar and that is counterintuitive to what you would normally think.

As a result, our view more broadly on cross-border is that it is economically driven and that how economic growth globally behaves is more likely to have an impact on our overall cross-border volumes.

So if I were to single out an area, emerging markets, there has been a lot of focus on declining values and growth rates in emerging markets. Those areas still have been vibrant sources of growth for us but we have a close watch on that in the year to come.

With regards to World Cup, Brazil has been one of those countries where the currency has weakened which bodes well for incoming traffic to the World Cup this summer in Brazil. The outbound spend from Brazil is one that will be under pressure largely because the government has -- well for two reasons. One, the weakness of the currency. That is often overpowered by an unflagging desire for Brazilians to travel. The government is making it more difficult however by putting on some pretty serious taxes both on the use of credit and debit cards when they are used in cross-border transactions.

So I would say from a World Cup standpoint, hopefully I would expect most of the Brazilians to stay home for the festivities and that outbound travel is probably never much in the cards. Inbound travel if anything should be aided by the weakness in the currency in Brazil and possibly Argentina will benefit as well as their currency has taken a nosedive of late.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Hard to believe that we will see anything in Sochi.

OPERATOR: Brian King , Deutsche Bank .

BRIAN KING , ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Good morning. Just two quick questions. One I guess, what is behind the slowdown in US debit volumes and any difference between PIN and signature?

Then secondly, I noticed you guys [hide] EMV chip. Just your latest thoughts on EMV chip versus EMV chip and PIN and will you promote one versus the other?

BYRON POLLITT : On the debit side, I would say hard to read that. There is pretty tepid growth in personal disposable income which is the primary indicator we look at now that we pretty much lapped the more immediate Durbin effects. Remember debit is disproportionately nondiscretionary. So one of the important drivers of debit spend is the growth in jobs which adds to the overall growth in nondiscretionary and debit spend and we are just not seeing much in the way of growth rates there. What we are seeing is declining growth rates there for the US in that regard.

If we were to take a look at kind of Visa signature versus interlink, I would say the growth rates on the PIN side have been running higher than on the signature side. And as you noticed, we downshifted a bit from where we were in the prior quarter as we begin to move further away from the immediate effects of Durbin and begin to hit a more normalized pattern.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Just on the issue of signature versus PIN as we move toward EMV, just remember, this is a country where people are used to signing with their credit card. Most cards don't even have a PIN attached to them and it is our point of view -- and I made reference to this in my remarks, we think it is very important that we move towards EMV. But it is equally important that we don't disturb the growth in commerce that does exist in this country.

To the extent that we can do things to make that transition as smoothly as possible, that is extremely important. So we think there is a future for a meaningful period of time for signature.

OPERATOR: Darrin Peller , Barclays .

DARRIN PELLER , ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL : We noticed that the service yield was up sequentially. Did anything in pricing or perhaps some lag effects from the (inaudible) drive that? And then just anything -- is there anything unsustainable around the amount you are now generating in service fees per dollar of payment volume?

Just quickly on the topic of pricing, we clearly saw a pretty significant cross-border price change [mass] over the last couple of quarters. While we know you guys want to be careful and surgical on pricing changes especially in emergings, might there be some similar opportunities soon from Visa? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT : On the service fee side, I would say there is no real call out. Remember a lot of our service fee is subject to FX impacts. So if we look at the constant dollar growth in service fees, we are at 13. The FX impact is bringing that down to about 10 nominally and service fee growth was around 9 so I would say that is pretty close. I would say no real call out on the yields. It is well within the ZIP Code of what we have done within the past three or four quarter. So no callouts.

CHARLIE SCHARF : On the pricing question, I would answer it very consistently with what we have been saying is we are not opposed to increasing price, we are not opposed to decreasing price, we are not opposed to keeping price the same as long as there is a reason for all of those things. So I think we have been disciplined. We have been thoughtful and that is what we will continue to do.

I guess the last thing I would say is we are more than willing to sacrifice our short-term performance versus other people if it is the right long-term thing to do for our Company and for our industry. We are very comfortable with what we have done and what we haven't done in pricing.

OPERATOR: Jason Kupferberg , Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG , ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks, guys. So if I heard correctly, I think process transaction growth slowed a little bit in the first three weeks of January, 11% versus the 13% last quarter. So I wanted to get a little bit more color there in terms of US versus international trends.

Then just quickly switching gears, any thoughts in terms of the implications of the data breaches on MCX's potential strategy? I know you guys get a lot of questions around that but to the extent they were looking at private label or a decoupled debit product as a primary funding source in their wallet now the potential for consumers to be more wary about giving their bank account data to a retailer? Would just appreciate any thoughts you have around that. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT : Let me start with the transaction growth. Let me break it down US versus international, give it to you for the first quarter and then for January so that you have the detail.

So as I said on the call, process transaction growth for the first quarter was 13%, US was 9%, and international was 26%; January 21 days, process transaction growth was 11%, 7% for the US, 24% for international. So a downtick in both.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Just to add a touch of color on that because we obviously look at these numbers daily, weekly, we look at all the trends. And the one thing that we talk about over the past several months and it really goes back to the beginning of the last quarter is there is a lot of volatility embedded in the numbers. Week in, week out, it is very hard to pick up trends and so whether they are positive or negative over a several week period of time, we have been unable to discern anything meaningful than this continued tepid recovery that Byron described.

Then on the second question, I guess I would say what we continue to say, I have talked about this fairly consistently as we think about our competitive position understanding that we are continuing to evolve and change and make sure that we open our network up to those who can direct transactions to us and continue to build value on our network. Having said all that, safety, security and soundness is the price of entry in payments. There is no question about that and people can build whatever they want and the moment that consumers start to get nervous about using their own personal information or payment credentials is the moment that people will start to see effects of that.

So what we and our primary competitors have are these established payment networks, known roles, people understand how they are protected and again which is why we think EMV is important because it takes mag stripe to a new standard and we are pushing beyond EMV towards the next thing. So to the extent that other payment methods are not as secure, that is a competitive disadvantage and that is how we think about it.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: I had a question on the FX hedging practices going forward. How should we think about the relevance of them as currencies move going forward especially if the US dollar were to strengthen more? Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT : According to the forwards, the US dollar is strengthening more against the currencies that are most relevant in our portfolio. So the forwards aren't as steep as what we were looking at a year ago but none the less to the extent there has been a headwind I would say looking forward, the headwind continues, it is just not as steep as it was when we looked out six, nine months ago.

We begin hedging a year ahead of time so we hedge 12 months out. We do rolling hedges so begin 12 months out and then our hedges are largely in place I would say five or six months before the period we actually report. We do economic hedges so we don't hedge everything, for a particular currency, we take revenue, subtract the natural hedge of the expenses we incur in that currency and then we hedge not 100% but a meaningful portion of the remainder and we do that for about 15 currencies.

The intent is not to speculate but to simply dampen the impact of currencies and so in the way we approach it, it is not possible to put complete hedges in place. The intent is to put enough in to dampen it within certain predetermined exposures that we calculate. It is a pretty straightforward value at risk analysis.

So when there are large sustained movements, those are going to be reflected in our numbers, they just won't have the amplitude that you would have if we didn't hedge.

We have pretty good visibility to this which is why we can give you a three to four quarter look ahead which is our practice from a guidance standpoint.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, CLSA

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA: Thanks for taking my questions. First is for Byron. If you could discuss the cadence in marketing spend, will the ramp look similar to what we saw during the last Olympic Games though I do know you have two events coming up?

Secondly, does host card emulation present a good tool for your tokenization project in the card not present world and would you move quickly toward certification there? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Let me just do number two first because the answer is yes. Byron?

BYRON POLLITT : On the second one, I don't have a comparison but you should expect a significant increase in marketing spend in Q2 and Q3 and then a meaningful downshift in Q4. We have had this combination before and even though the finals of the World Cup are typically in July which is Q4, there is a substantial amount of marketing that occurs prior to the finals in that April, May, June timeframe so that quarter has a substantial component of the World Cup and this quarter is the one that has virtually all of the Winter Olympics spend.

One other callout. The spend for Winter Olympics is significant in terms of the quarterly cadence but it is not at the level of spend that you would see for a Summer Olympics.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Let me just reiterate what Byron said in his opening remarks and make sure that we are as clear as we can be. As we look to our fiscal second and third quarter, in the second and third quarter because of what Byron referred to, our revenue growth numbers will not be as robust as we have seen this quarter and in the fourth quarter. We said that we expect the expense growth to be higher in the second and third quarter because of the marketing numbers that Byron talked about and that obviously then flows through to weaker margins in the second and third quarter. Recovery in the fourth quarter for things that we know are coming which is why we reaffirmed full-year guidance but there will be these variable and lumpy trends as we see the year play itself out.

OPERATOR: Ken Bruce, Bank of America Merrill Lynch .

KEN BRUCE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : Thank you. Good morning. My question is relatively simple, it may not be quite as simple of an answer but I'm hoping to get a little bit of perspective around the process transactions. Just in terms of the percentage that has basically been migrating slowly higher, I am hoping you might be able to dimensionalize what is driving that share increase in terms of process transactions, what are the contributors to that? And maybe what you think is a reasonable high-end for process transactions?

And then separately if you would provide any color around the merchant relationships that you mentioned in your opening remarks in terms of improving those relationships and what that might entail?

BYRON POLLITT : I think that is a pretty straightforward, simple question on the process transactions part for sure. So two dimensions here. First of all, when you look at the relative growth rates between US and international, international is growing at a multiple of the US growth rate. When you break down international, if you took a snapshot of our portfolio today, international for us is still largely a credit business. That is what got established first. When you look at what is driving the transaction growth, it is very clearly debit and that is the huge opportunity that will drive international transaction growth for years to come.

For us debit is still in its infancy internationally relative to the United States. Another dimension, in the United States, we process nearly 100% of our transactions. Outside of the United States, we can process anywhere from 90% to 0% and so the opportunity for us to Visa process transactions is still a wide-open field. And that by the way is particularly true in debit. So you will hear us talk a lot more about that in the quarters to come because it is linked so directly to our growth opportunity.

CHARLIE SCHARF : On the merchant question, we don't have anything that we want to talk publicly about now with any individual merchant but as I said in the opening remarks, our goal is to provide the kind of value added services for merchants that we have done such a good job of providing to the issuing community for a long period of time and we are in the process of having discussions and when we have specifics to talk about we will talk about them.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Smitti Srethapramote, Morgan Stanley .

SMITTI SRETHAPRAMOTE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Can you please give us an update on your government relations efforts in the emerging markets to increase the electronification of payments?

CHARLIE SCHARF : I will take a stab at that, Byron, and you can feel free to chime in. First of all, government relations for us especially when you get outside of the developed world is not a traditional government relations function, meaning it is not a staff function that sits to the side and just goes around and has lobbying type of conversations.

In the emerging markets, government relations is a business for us because the government is our partner in helping electronify the payment systems in these particular markets. Very often when the government leads with trying to move their transactions to the electronic payment systems, that then can help drive the market. That is what we see in places like Rwanda and other places which are really emerging.

So when we look across the world, we think of the government as a client and a partner to helping build the business which is good for them and the reason why it is good for them is it is ultimately good for all of their participants whether it is the merchants or the individuals and obviously we and our competitors will benefit from that as cash exits society.

BYRON POLLITT : If I were to reflect back to when we went public in 2008 and if you were to have asked that -- I don't think anyone would have thought to ask that question but today governments of emerging markets have gotten a lot more interested and pay a lot more attention to electronic forms of payment. They are interested in it from a very self-serving standpoint in that you can't tax what you can't see but they are also very focused on this as a way of providing, in Charlie's words, a safer more secure and sound financial system for their citizens.

And so there is a natural tendency to want to regulate and our involvement now is very, very early contact with a broad range of emerging market governments because they can be very well intentioned but also unenlightened with regards to how to think about regulation and what the impacts are. And so we have got government relations people stationed all over the world particularly in emerging markets and their role is largely educational so that governments that have a legitimate interest in regulating this part of their monetary system can do so understanding how best to provide safety, security and soundness and to allow the market to operate so that they get the kind of penetration of electronic payments which will grow and be healthy.

And we have been exceptionally pleased with the reception of most governments to talking with us and partnering with us to develop their electronic payment systems in a way that is healthy and I think will provide a good foundation for growth to come.

OPERATOR: Glenn Greene, Oppenheimer.

GLENN GREENE, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks and good morning. Just I'll squeak in a couple here. As you renewed your Chase deal, I think the implication or you suggested possibly you would pick up some incremental volume. I was curious if you started to see that and should we be thinking about that as sort of being reflected in the run rate or sort of something that we expect going forward throughout calendar 2014 as sort of incremental volume.

And then just a quick number question in terms of where are you in terms of V.me merchants signed?

CHARLIE SCHARF : I will take the first one. On Chase, we do expect to see incremental volume during the course of the year. We expect some to begin this quarter, not material and we expect it to build through the course of fiscal year 2014. In our guidance, that incremental is contemplated but it will be more second half weighted clearly than first half. Then your question again on V.me merchants?

GLENN GREENE: Just a number of signings at this point.

BYRON POLLITT : I don't have the number, I don't have the updated number here to be honest with you.

GLENN GREENE: I was just wondering do we get a step function increase at some point during this year or is it still sort of gradual test mode kind of figuring it out?

CHARLIE SCHARF : I think we will be in a position to answer that question in another month or two because we just rolled out the new platform that I described and we will start to see of the effects of it and have a better understanding of what it means for the ramp up.

GLENN GREENE: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Chris Brendler , Stifel.

CHRIS BRENDLER , ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Actually I have two questions that I probably won't get a lot of detail on so hopefully it won't take too long. One is Visa Europe , anything you can say additionally about Visa Europe and what potentially that would look like if it could come back to you, any progress there or any update?

And then similarly on the merchant or the Judge Leon case and the appeal, obviously you can't give us too much there but I was wondering if there was any way you could on a timeline -- it sounded like from that hearing that the timeline could be shorter than I think the original estimates that were somewhere around a year. Is it possible to hear something from the three-judge appeal panel in the next couple of months? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Nothing different to talk about on Visa Europe , otherwise I would have mentioned it in my opening remarks and on timing, we don't know.

BYRON POLLITT : In terms of the last question, we got the numbers. We have over 300 signed and 80 are currently live on the V.me.

OPERATOR: Glenn Fodor, Autonomous.

GLENN FODOR, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS: Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Byron, just wanted to peel back your comments on emerging markets a little bit more. Can you give us a rough sense of what percent of your volumes come from emerging markets and then within that volume category, can you give us a range of what type of multiples your overall volume growth that this is growing? Is it three times as fast or four times? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT : Good morning, Glenn. I don't actually have those statistics at my command. The emerging markets, I mean these growth rates are midteens and better and --.

CHARLIE SCHARF : And depending on the market could be substantially better than that.

BYRON POLLITT : Yes, and could be substantially better. And these growth rates, remember we have a portfolio so even though some of these have had currency issues in terms of weakening currencies, these growth rates have held pretty well even where there has been weaker currencies.

Government intervention where they are trying to limit the outbound can have an effect. You are seeing that in Brazil today, likely to see it in Argentina, Venezuela, countries where there have been more severe locations. But the durability of the growing cross-border in emerging markets has been quite resilient.

OPERATOR: Andrew Jeffrey, SunTrust.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Good morning. Thanks for sneaking me in here. A quick question on the CyberSource transaction growth which decelerated in the first fiscal quarter. Any commentary just broadly around that and implications or read throughs to overall e-commerce volume?

BYRON POLLITT : So let me separate the two. On e-commerce volume, this was a fantastic holiday spend season for e-commerce and the trend in growth in e-commerce is very, very healthy. So the downshift a bit in the growth in CyberSource has nothing to do with the underlying growth in e-commerce.

What I would say, the CyberSource established an early significant position as a gateway in what has become a much more competitive space and I think what we are going to find in the next few quarters is that we are just going -- one, we're going to need to up our game and that this space is just going to be more competitively intense than it has been in the past couple of years. And that is a direct testament to how attractive the growth prospects are for e-commerce which is the one channel that is particularly suited for electronic payments.

JACK CARSKY : With that we want to thank everybody for joining us this morning and as always if you have any follow-up questions, please feel free to give either Victoria or myself a call. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT : Thanks, everyone.

CHARLIE SCHARF : Thank you.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for joining and all participants may disconnect their lines at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140201ea1u000f2
  


 HD
 Q4  2013  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,630 words
   PD
30 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc's fiscal Q4 2013 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of global investor relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

   TD
JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC: Thank you, Brad. Good afternoon, and welcome to Visa Inc's fiscal fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call. With us today are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the internet. It can be accessed over the Investor Relations website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A power point deck containing financial and statistical highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements. These statements aren't guarantee of future performance and our actual results could differ as the result of a variety of factors. Additional information concerning these factors is available in our most recent reports on forms 10-K and Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the IR section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by the Reg G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's press release This release can also be assessed through the IR section of our website. With that, I will now turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC: Let me begin with my usual call outs and observations. First, some color on the fourth quarter's net revenue growth. As reported, net revenue grew 9%. Three call outs, starting with gross revenue. For the quarter, it grew at a healthy 11% rate.

Turning to the incentive line, during the quarter, we closed 73 major deals, compared to a quarterly average of 53 for the 2013 fiscal year. This resulted in an incentive rate of 18.6% for Q4, which is well within the neighborhood we signaled on our Q3 earnings call. When combined with the first three fiscal quarters, incentives as a percent of gross revenues came in at 16.5%, right in the middle of our 16% to 17% guidance range for the full year.

Finally, the FX headwind, which has accelerated in the second half of the year, reached about 1.5 percentage points of drag on revenue growth in Q4. The full year FX headwind was just under 1% for fiscal 2013. We expect this headwind to continue to grow in fiscal 2014 to about 2 percentage points of drag on reported revenue growth net of our hedges.

Second call out relates to full year revenue growth. We began fiscal 2013 with revenue guidance of low double digits, and refined the guidance to around 13% on the Q3 call. We end the year with revenue growth of 13%, after absorbing the impact of heightened deal activity in Q4 and a growing unfavorable FX impact.

Third call out relates to the most recent US payment volume trends. While rest of world payment volume and global cross-border trends remain in double-digit growth territory for the September ending quarter, US domestic payment volume dropped from 11% growth in August to 8% in September.

While October's first three weeks have upticked slightly to 9%, there has clearly been some constraint in US consumer spend showing up in our numbers in both debit and credit. Our guidance encompasses what we are seeing in September and October and presumes that a tepid recovery in US economic growth continues.

Fourth call out relates to operating income and EPS, which grew 15% and 20% respectively versus fiscal 2012's adjusted results. Included in our Q4 results was a restructuring reserve of $44 million, representing about $0.04 of EPS. This restructuring reserve reflects a streamlining of our cost structure, aimed at achieving greater alignment between our costs and our strategic priorities and capturing organizational efficiencies as we adapt to changes in our management structure.

Finally, fifth call out, we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders. Three highlights. First, as announced last week, we raised our quarterly dividend per share by 21% to $0.40. Second, during Q4, we repurchased over 7 million shares at an average price of $177 per share, returning $1.3 billion to shareholders. Finally third, we announced a new $5 billion share repurchase program, our largest ever.

Please note, this buyback program has no expiration date and is in addition to $251 million still remaining under our prior authorization. This means purchases could take place throughout fiscal 2014, and in 2015 as well. Now let's turn to the numbers.

As is my practice, I will cover our global payment volume and process transaction trends for the fiscal Q4, followed by our results through October 21. I'll then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal fourth quarter, and conclude with our guidance outlook for fiscal 2014. Global payment volume growth for the September quarter, in constant dollars, was 13%, on par with the June quarter's 13%. This was driven by a sustained growth in all of our regions.

More recently in the US, through October 21, payment volume growth was 9%, compared with 10% in the September ending quarter. Drilling down further, US credit growth was 9% through October 21, compared to 11% in Q4. Similarly, debit grew at 8% in October, compared to 10% in Q4. While a decline in US gas prices is part of the story, there is also a modest downshift in other retail segments.

Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 11% constant dollar growth rate in the September quarter, on par with the 11% rate in the June quarter. The US grew 10%, and the rest of world 11%. Through October 21, cross-border volume on a constant dollar basis grew 13%, with a US growth rate of 10%, and rest of world at 14%.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled 15.5 billion in the fiscal fourth quarter, a 14% increase over the prior-year period. The US grew 10%, while the rest of the world delivered 28% growth. Through October 21, process transaction growth was 13%.

Now turning to the income statement. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $3 billion, a 9% increase year-over-year, driven by solid growth globally in both domestic and international transactions and, as mentioned earlier, restrained by a significant increase in incentives tied to deal activity and a growing FX headwind. For the full fiscal year, net operating revenue was $11.8 billion, up 13% over the prior year, and at the high end of our beginning of year guidance of low double digits.

Moving to the individual revenue line items. Service revenue was $1.4 billion, up 10% over the prior year, and was driven by solid global payment volume growth. Data processing revenue was $1.2 billion, up 12% over the prior year's quarter, based on solid growth rates and Visa process transactions inside and outside of the US, and continuing strong CyberSource transaction growth.

As we signaled last quarter, we have fully lapped the implementation of US debit regulation, resulting in revenue growth that more closely approximates growth in process transactions. International transaction revenue was up 13%, to $899 million, reflecting solid strength in cross-border volume and a continuing benefit from higher currency volatility.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $1.2 billion, up only 1% from the prior year results. Personnel costs were up 6% for the quarter, and 12% year-over-year, in support of our growth strategies around the globe, which heavily emphasized the investments in our country teams outside of the US, along with our newer product initiatives. That said, in Q4, we also took a $44 million restructuring reserve for the reasons discussed earlier. This call out is important when considering our run rate for personnel costs as we move into fiscal year 2014.

Marketing expenses were flat from the prior year, and declined 6% sequentially, primarily as a result of lower media spend. Operating margin was 59% for the fourth quarter, and 61% for the full fiscal year, both in line with our guidance of about 60%. Our effective tax rate for Q4 was 32.5%, and while higher than our full-year guidance of 30% to 32%, the full year figure of 31.4% was within our guidance range.

Capital expenditures were $138 million in the quarter, and totaled $471 million for the full year. This was at the top end of our expected range going into the year. At the end of the fiscal quarter, we had 638 million shares of class A common stock outstanding on an as-converted basis. The weighted average number of fully diluted shares outstanding for the quarter totaled 644 million, and for the year totaled 656 million.

Finally, in terms of guidance, we had previously provided fiscal 2014 metrics around revenues, EPS, and free cash flow. Let's start there. Given our expectation for a more significant FX headwind in 2014, we are reframing our revenue growth guidance going forward, leading with a constant dollar growth rate, which is consistent with the payment volume metrics we provide each quarter, and better represents the underlying growth and health of our business. Then we will provide the expected FX impact for the year.

So for fiscal year 2014, we expect constant dollar revenue growth of low double digits and an FX headwind of around 2 percentage points. A little further color on revenue. Given the continued slow pace of global economic recovery, combined with the growing impact of a strong US dollar, our expectations today are slightly lower than they were in June on Investor Day.

That said, our expectation for diluted earnings per share remains the same, and continues to be mid to high teens. Free cash flow guidance of about $5 billion reflects the partial reversal of a 2013 tax deduction associated with the eventual return of Visa's share of the multi-district litigation cash payment as a result of merchants opting out of the multi-district litigation class settlement. As I mentioned in June at Investor Day, this event, combined with the non-recurring deduction in fiscal 2013 associated with our multi-district litigation settlement payment, will lower free cash flow from $6.9 billion in fiscal 2013 to about $5 billion in fiscal 2014.

New guidance metrics for the full year 2014 include the following. Client incentives, as a percent of growth revenue, will move up modestly next year, within an expected range of 16.5% to 17.5%. Our annual operating margin is expected to show a very modest improvement over the past couple of years, which means we expect it to remain in the low 60s.

Finally, we have made the decision to discontinue providing quantitative guidance on marketing expense, capital expenditures and tax rate. We are moving in this direction because of the track record we have established since our IPO in 2008. Given the progress we have made with, and now the stability of these metrics, we deem them ripe for retirement.

However, having said that, and to provide some parting color, we would view marketing and capital expenditures as likely increasing over time commensurate with overall growth but at manageable rates. While we'll always seek opportunities to optimize our tax rate, we are not going to see the same magnitude of sustained improvement that we were able to drive in the first five years of our public life. We expect to see more modest, incremental improvement only.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA INC: Thanks very much, Byron, and good afternoon to everyone. I thought I would start out with just a few comments about the fourth quarter, and then move on to some other topics.

First of all, we feel very good about the continued strong financial performance that Visa has exhibited, with no surprises to speak of. As Byron mentioned, our revenue growth of 9%, and on a gross basis at 11%, was reflective of heavy incentives during the quarter, as we anticipated, and we just think of those as a good thing. That is getting more long-term deals signed with our clients -- is clearly a positive for us.

Global payment volume growth of 13% consistent with the prior quarter, expense growth of 1%, as we talked about, including $44 million of severance. 15% net income growth, while we bought back 7 million shares for about $1.3 billion. All of this contributed to EPS growth of 20%, again including the effect of those incentives during the quarter, and restructuring. All of that added into the 2013 full year performance of 13% revenue growth, 8% expense growth, translating to 23% EPS growth, all in line with the guidance that we've been giving.

Let me turn now and just give a couple of updates on other topics, and I'll start with litigation and regulation. First, I'll start here in the United States. As I think most of you are aware, we are awaiting final ruling on the MDL, the multi-district litigation case. A decision is expected at any time. We continue to remain confident that the court will approve the agreement, as we've said in the past.

Also within the United States, again, I think most people do know that the US district court judge Richard Leon ruled on July 31 that the Federal Reserve implemented certain parts of the Durbin Provision of Dodd-Frank improperly, specifically related to the level of interchange and the networking provisions. Just a couple of comments on the Judge Leon ruling.

First of all, we are pleased that the Federal Reserve filed a notice of appeal in August, and that the Fed was granted a stay in July pending the results of its appeal. Our review of the appeal papers filed by the Federal Reserve leads us to believe that the government has a strong case on appeal. Relative to the timing, as best as we note, there is no timeline proposed for when the case will be argued or decided. However, the briefings are expected to be completed by December 4 of this year.

Over in Europe, we have talked about a series of things there in the past. There really is no new news with anything that we've discussed, including the Visa Europe put. Let me move on now and talk about tokenization for a minute.

On the last quarterly call, I spoke at length about our thoughts on tokenization and where we viewed our role. We made a significant announcement this quarter, which I hope you saw. We, along with our partners in the industry, MasterCard and American Express, announced a set of standards to move towards a newly-tokenized payment environment. This will serve several purposes.

First of all, as we all know, it is just good for security. Removing sensitive information crossing the payment system is good for every network participant. But probably more importantly, for the long-term, it creates a framework as new network participants emerge to ensure the security and the integrity of the payment system is in fact maintained.

And when I talk about the integrity of the payment system, I'm including protecting the position that we have, and our clients have, in the value chain. And that is something that is obviously very important to us. It is early dates. They are just standards, as they've been defined, but we're working both on the technical implementation of these, as well as the practical implications, with more to come in the future. But we think this could lead to some exciting things.

Next update, I'll turn to V.me for a second. We've spoken before about the convergence of physical point of sale, e-commerce and mobile. You hear it everywhere you go. Our objective is simple with V.me. People talk about wallets sometimes as if they are very confusing to us, and what our goals are, they are simple and straightforward. We want to replicate the simplicity, the speed and the security of a transaction, just like people have today when they swipe, dip or tap a card. It is that simple.

We've learned a great dial since I've arrived from Visa, through discussions with issuers, acquirers and merchants, relative to our own development of V.me, and we are in the process of simplifying our product, becoming targeted towards the goal of creating this simple, fast and secure online and mobile acceptance. The feedback has been hugely valuable. Our product is going to be issuer, acquirer and merchant focused. That's relative to the branding and the data flow.

We are working to make it easier to integrate into merchant websites and into mobile applications, and we've done this in collaboration with our clients today, and the feedback has been positive and we are optimistic. Having said that, we have made significant progress. We have over 150 financial institutions and about 60 e-commerce retailers offering V.me within the United States, Canada and Australia today, and we have an additional 300 merchants signed and are in various stages of integration.

We move on now and just talk for a second about network security. In my year here, as I've gotten the opportunity to talk to many of you and read many things sent across about what is going on in our industry, there is a great deal discussed about the potential disintermediation of existing payment systems. And I just -- relative to network security -- I want to make clear that I do not think people should underestimate the value existing payment networks have regarding security.

Criminals across the globe, there are becoming more of them, they are becoming smarter, they are better funded, and they are becoming more bold. Their attacks are becoming more frequent and much, much more complex. We as a company, and the established people in the marketplace have, been dealing with these risks for years. In our case, 40 or 50 years.

We've invested billions of dollars to secure our network, and you just have to remind yourself, people use networks because they trust them, and they'll use them until they do not trust them anymore. And then when they do not, those networks will not exist. We understand that, and work every day to protect our environment, and just keep in mind risk takes several forms.

The first is just practical, day-to-day fraud. We spend an awful lot of energy working on our data analytics, as our clients do, to fight common everyday fraud. Our transactions are screened by us and our financial partners on a real time basis. The modeling to do this has been developed over 40 or 50 years, and we've driven fraud rates down to historic lows, to the point where they are less than $0.06 for every $100 transacted over our network are actually lost to fraud.

The second risk is the scary one, and its perpetrators are getting access to the network. Just remind everyone that we have a centralized processing and architecture that allows us to scan, evaluate, protect and react to any risk that we see as necessary. As a company, as I said, huge resources, huge amount of our time as a management team, and we have some of the most talented people and sophisticated technology to combat threats, and are committed to continue investing in this.

As we think about these risks, again, I want to point out, these risks are very real. These aren't things that our people are concerned about that might never come to fruition. They will go to the weakest link in the system. As I think most of you know, the White House is directly engaged in this, as is the President himself, and we certainly feel that having the secure environment, like our established payments network, is a great place to be as the risks continue to increase.

Now let me turn and talk for a second about the almost year that I've spent at Visa, and just share a few of my thoughts. Again, many of these don't relate to anything that I've done, but relate to the broader team at Visa.

First of all, this Company has delivered growth consistently, and delivered on what it said it would do since the IPO. I personally remain confident in our ability to continue to grow the franchise over the long-term. The opportunities are hugely significant. They are global, they are technology driven, and they are based on partnerships that we have and will continue to strengthen across the globe.

First of all, on globality. Again, I've had the opportunity, since I've joined the company, to spend a lot of time overseas. I've visited over a dozen countries. I've probably met with 40 to 50 financial institutions, from the very largest to some of the very smallest. Met with two dozen acquirers, met with many merchants, and government officials in five countries. You all know, and I think we've talked about this, that our business outside of the US is growing at a rate much faster than inside the US, but the opportunities within both are still hugely significant.

We talked at Investor Day that the displacement of cash is still the big opportunity for us. 41% of transactions in the developed world are still cash and check. 62% in the emerging markets. That translates to over $11 trillion of cash and checks in our geographies, which excludes Visa Europe, and those numbers are growing. What has been most striking to me, as I've had the opportunity to travel across the world, is the extent to which governments understand the huge benefits of moving payments to electronic means, and the desire to partner with us to bring about this change. And that is in fact what we are doing.

As I just alluded to, technology is also a huge driver of the opportunity we have in front of us. Cash is, in fact, the enemy. Electronic solutions just are far superior. They are safer. They are more secure. We have some of the best products in the world.

Our products are accepted, if you include mobile points of acceptance, between 36 million and 40 million locations across the globe. We have over 2.1 billion cards outstanding, a full set of products, and again, a tradition of safety, security and soundness. We all know data and mobile create the opportunity to accelerate that electronification, and we have continued and will continue to build out our capabilities here.

We've also talked a lot about partnership. Our clients are much more than clients. They are partners. Our issuers have always looked at us that way, that we are a strategic partner for them in building their business.

When we talk to a lot of people on the outside, they like to talk about the price of our network. When we talk to most of our issuers, absolutely they are concerned about price. But they are equally concerned about the ideas and the assets that we can bring to help them grow their client relationships. And that is what we spend our time inside the company working to develop. It is what has been done for years.

The same is true for the acquirers. And I've said, we're building this DNA news capabilities to create those kinds of merchant partnerships that we do have in some parts of the world, but we need certainly here in the United States and elsewhere. We have a long way to go. We know it is critical for our success. But we do want to be viewed as a partner to grow their business at a fair price. And we will be flexible.

We will customize our efforts here as long as we preserve the things that I've talked about that are important to us and the network. And in short, we feel great about the future. So everything we've been talking about our future is still, in fact, the same. Let me shift gears now and talk for a second about capital.

Since our IPO, we've been consistent about how we have thought about capital management, and since I've come on board, I've reaffirmed the same principles that have existed within the Company. To date, the Company has repurchased the equivalent of about 151 million shares, or about 20% of the Company's shares outstanding. We have returned nearly $17 billion of capital to shareholders. Let me walk through a couple of principles, which I laid out on a prior call, but let me just do again.

We believe the highest and best use of our excess capital is to reinvesting it, first organically in our business, and then through acquisitions to further our growth. After supporting that growth, we believe in continuing to grow our dividend, and we think about targeting a 20% payout ratio of prior year net income. The final use is buying back our stock.

Just a few notes for a second. We treat decisions to invest our capital for both organic and acquisition purposes as serious, independent and discrete decisions. And we conduct vigorous analysis on all of those. And so we get excited when we find investments, whether they are organic investments or acquisitions that pass those tests, and we are constantly searching for ways to grow those things.

We also understand the value of a consistent and fair dividend to our investors. So our goal is to grow the dividend as our net income grows. And our stated goal has been, and continues to be, to return the majority of excess free cash flow to our investors. We've done this through aggressive buybacks, and will continue to do this, always with an eye towards valuation. We understand that when we buy our stock back, we are making an investment decision. And to the extent that we are buying the stock back, that tells you what we believe the future of this company is like.

As you've seen, we have continued that practice through this quarter. We announced the 21% increase in our quarterly dividend, from $0.33 to $0.40 per share. This equates to 20% of that prior year net income, as I alluded to earlier, and that's the way we think about it. We also announced our 10th and most significant share repurchase authorization to date, which was $5 billion. Both of these decisions, as I've said, reflect our belief in returning excess capital to shareholders, and in our confidence of our future.

And speaking of the future, just a few last words before we open it for questions. Byron commented that through October 21, we've seen solid payment and transaction growth across the world. Some weakness here in the US, with some strong growth elsewhere.

As we've said, the recovery has not accelerated. Uncertainty certainly continues, as you look across the world, and our financial guidance reflects this tepid global growth and volatility in the foreign exchange markets. We do expect one day to benefit from stronger economic growth. We just don't know when yet.

Looking ahead to 2014 and beyond, I continue to remain excited and energized about Visa and the opportunity that we have to continue growing the business from the top line. We continue to focus on the same initiatives that we outlined at Investor Day. The secular opportunity to penetrate cash and check PCE remains healthy across the globe. We are working hard to expand the value of VisaNet. We are continuing to invest in our future, and we continue about being more flexible and adaptive to the business needs of our customers as we seek to become closer partners with them.

In closing, I would like to thank the 9,500 global employees of Visa who are all working hard every single day to build a better company for all of our shareholders. And with that, operator, Byron and I would love to take some questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question will come from Jason Kupferberg of Jefferies. You may go ahead.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks, guys. On the currency, because I know it is unusual, if you have a call out of this magnitude. Is it mostly the volatility in the Brazilian real, or are there some other specific currencies, and you simply didn't have enough hedging in place? And as follow on to that, does the top line impact that we saw in Q4, and that we're projecting for fiscal 2014, is that similar impact on the bottom line?

BYRON POLLITT: Let me respond to that. On currency, I'll just remind everyone, we hedge one year out on a rolling basis. Literally, every month, we put hedges on, hedges come off. So we'll never be perfectly matched with regards to our foreign exchange exposure unless, literally, there is no volatility whatsoever in the rate.

We hedge 14 currencies. We do business in 180. The impact does include the Brazilian real, but it is more than that. It includes the Aussie dollar, the yen, the Canadian dollar, so there are a handful of currencies that are causing this impact, not just limited to Brazil.

The primary impact is revenue. There is a more modest off-set in expenses. Obviously, expenses incurred in other currencies that are brought back to the US dollar actually translate at a lower level. So the impact on the bottom line is moderated by the expense benefit, but it doesn't moderate it all that much.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Craig Maurer of CLSA. Your line is open.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Yes, a couple of questions. First, the high deal volume in the fiscal fourth quarter. Could you please discuss, if you can, the pricing trajectory at a high level for those deals versus what you were seeing during the rest of 2013? And secondly, just thinking about growth outside of the US, we're hearing that the Mexican banks are lobbying hard for Visa and MasterCard to be allowed to process locally. Any thoughts on those discussions or the timeline for that? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me take the first one. When we gave our guidance on the Q3 call, we guided to 16% to 17% incentives for the year, the incentive rate that we ended up incurring in Q4 is very, very consistent with that guidance. And very consistent with how we expected deals to sort out. And as it relates to pricing, I would say there is no major call out here on pricing.

I think the perspective we would leave you with is, we were pretty much spot on in the end of year and Q4 incentive guidance, which should give you some comfort around how we anticipated those deals to be priced. The reason as I alluded to in my remarks, the reason that the incentives are so high is because we did a significantly higher number of important deals in that quarter. Something that is not unusual. It is why incentives are lumpy, and we do not guide by quarter. We guide on the full year.

And so that is the perspective we'd offer on that front. Charlie, do you want to pick up on Mexico?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. On Mexico, certainly, and I think, if you think back to the Investor Day, Bill Sheedy talked a great deal about what we believe is the opportunity outside of the United States to increasing our processing penetration. Mexico is certainly one of those markets. I've been there, and we've had the conversation about the value that we think our processing capabilities can bring to the banks. And so we are hopeful -- and trying to be helpful -- that our processing capabilities will be useful in that market place.

Just on a related note on Mexico, because I didn't cover it in my remarks, but I do think it is an exciting for us. We announced today that we've signed an agreement with the joint venture between Grupo Bimbo, which is the largest Mexican-owned banking company and Blue Label telecom limited, which is a leading provider of prepaid airtime. The significance is, we have also talked a great deal about the opportunity to increase acceptance in the markets that aren't as developed as the United States.

This is an opportunity for us to work with the capacity that Bimbo has, and potentially add up to 150,000 point of sale terminals, using their distribution capabilities. So it is something that we are very excited about, and when we think about increasing acceptance, and we think about processing, it certainly is one of the bigger opportunities for us.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Tien-Tsin Huang from JPMC. Your line is open.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Just on the incentive line, the 73 major deals. How many of these were new deals for Visa versus renewals? And then looking into 2014, should we expect a more normal year for deal activity?

BYRON POLLITT: We do not have immediately handy how many were new versus renewal. What I can provide is additional color, is the majority of those were outside of the United States, with a heavy focus on the Asia Pacific and CEMEA region.

With regards to 2014, I'm not quite sure what a normal year would be, but we've given you our guidance relative to incentives. And what I can say is that, if we were to look at it, say, from the perspective of our top 10 global clients, none of those are scheduled for expiration or renewal in the upcoming year, 2014.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And I want to add to what Byron said earlier, which is, again, we do not guide quarterly on incentives, because we know it is going to be lumpy. And this, while it is a large number, not a surprise to us. And again, to the extent that we are signing up people either earlier or more of them, we think those are good things. And over the course of the year, those things tend to balance out, which is why we provided the guidance that we provided for 2014.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Dan Perlin of RBC Capital. You may go ahead.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. As we think about 2014 a little more on the incremental investment side, and you mentioned a lot of things going on here. But you did highlight previously that about 80% of your investments, incrementally, up to this point, have been on products, technology and infrastructure. And about the remaining 20% was on international markets. And I'm just wondering, it sounds like it might be tilting more toward international markets. And should we expect the incremental margins from that to be similar, better, worse? Because your margin guidance, for me, seemed like it was biased to the upside. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: How to respond to that? I think those ratios continue to work. I would say that, when we talk about 80% of investment going into product, a lot of that is capital.

When you think of the investment that goes into rest of world and countries outside -- other than the United States, and we think of headcount, a lot of that is going into our country teams. And we consider those investments, because we're at our best when we are present locally, serving clients locally.

And so the margins are highest when we are leveraging transactions over the network in our core businesses, and they are less when we are investing in products and services that begin to move away from the network. They extend the network, but they are transactions that require additional investment and additional cost in order to drive the transactions to the network.

And so the way we talked about it, I think, on investor day, is probably a good way of continuing to think about it in 2014 and 2015. Charlie, do you want to add anything?

CHARLIE SCHARF: The only color I would add is where you wound up, which is, as we sit here today, and we've obviously have our plan for next year, and they are in all of the glorious detail that you would expect. We do not look at the distribution of those investments as being at all significantly different than we thought at investor day.

It is still the same set of opportunities. The growth opportunities outside of the US have been hugely significant for this company. It is where the majority of the headcount growth has been over a period of time. So we would expect where we invest to look very similar as we develop the products and services that we talked about.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Darrin Peller of Barclays.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, guys. When we look at the volume trends through September and October, first of all, just comment on some of the moving parts her, in terms of maybe the government shutdown impacting, or any other variables. And then, when you think about your 2014 guidance, is that inclusive of this kind of a run rate for the US trending in the 8% to 9% range versus what you've seen in the past few months?

BYRON POLLITT: So on the first -- on the US side, I would say it is continuation -- as we said in the remarks, it is the continuation of a tepid recovery. And so somewhere in the zip code of what we have been seeing is what we would expect to see going forward. And I'm sorry, the first part of your question was?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I can do it.

BYRON POLLITT: The government. (multiple speakers)

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, so I just want to repeat what Byron said. He also said this in his opening remarks, which is that our guidance encompasses what we are seeing in September and October.

DARRIN PELLER: Okay, that is helpful.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And as Byron said, that our guidance presumes that we do have this tepid recovery with the US economy. And then, listen, relative to the government, it certainly appears, from our looking at our information, that the government shutdown certainly has an impact. Very hard to prove, very hard to understand exactly what the impact is.

So it is more guess than anything else. And certainly, to the extent that the US government can get its act together, on the debt limit and on the budget, we would expect that to change the trajectory that we would see for consumer spend.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Glenn Fodor of Autonomous Research. Your line is open.

GLENN FODOR, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Charlie, given your experience at a place that was impacted by Dodd-Frank's debit regulation, and the looming second round of potential actions here, could you just put your bank hat on and share with us your views? As if this does go through, how issuers may approach their response to further debit interchange reductions and/or loss of exclusivity on signature? And how that could that impact the networks?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. I'll answer the question relative to, in my current job, conversations that we've had with issuers, and our sense for the way people are thinking about it. Listen, I think, first of all, relative to the level of interchange, it certainly depends on where the rule ultimately comes out. When issuers first were dealing with the Durbin reduction down to $0.22, there was a lot of thought that went into the people's desire to support the product. And at $0.22, while people don't make much money on the product, the consumers like the product, and they still felt the need to support it. And we see strong debit growth at that point.

As the number drops, if the number drops significantly below that, people do have to rethink what that means. We always have to remind ourselves that we can sit around and talk about what we like, and our issuers can do the same, but there are customers on the other end that are using these products, and consumers like debit cards. They like to segregate their money. They like to have control over what they spend relative to the amount of money that's in their bank account.

And all of the safeguards, checks, alerts and all of the things that go along with that. And forcing consumer behavior to change is a very hard and very dangerous thing to do. And not one that I think, at least that I could tell, banks take lightly. So we're still, depending on where the numbers come out, confident that the support will still be there.

And if for some reason people choose to look another way, there are very good prepaid products in the marketplace, which could be important drivers of their business and our business, as is the case with credit cards. And we just remind ourselves, the credit card business is very different than it was 10 years ago. Credit card companies are predominantly controlled by banks that look at the entirety of the relationship, and the entirety of that relationship allows them to make credit decisions that they wouldn't have felt comfortable making years and years ago.

And to the extent that they can make those credit decisions, put controls and alerts and parameters around that that consumers like, that is certainly an option. So lots of things unfolding here. Obviously, it depends on where the appeal turns itself up. And then, listen, relative to network routing, the only thing I would say on that one is, that one is very complicated.

It is not clear that the system is capable of handling that today, and the system thought about broadly, whether it is physical devices, whether it is networks, whether it is acquirers, processors or anything like that. And so that one, I think, we will wait and see what happens in the appeals court and go forward from there.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from son Sanjay Sakhrani of KBW. Your line is open.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Just a question back on the US spending trends. I was wonder if there was more elaboration around the trends? Byron, you mentioned certain verticals seeing impact as well. I was wondering, maybe, what those verticals were? And maybe what consumer segments you might have seen the impact? And then just one data point question. When I look at the card service to purchase volume ratio that declined a lot more in the fourth quarter than it did in the third quarter. And I was wondering if you could help me with what might have attributed to that? Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to the softening in the US retail spend, clearly, gas is important. We are looking at an average price per gallon on October 21st of $3.36, which for us is 12% below where it was at the same time a year ago. And that shows up in a significant way in the short fall. I would say other verticals that show up, supermarkets, various elements of travel, a number of categories that we would traditionally associate with small business.

And when you look at the spread, it's pretty broad-based. And I would almost say, after gas, I think what struck us, with how many categories you would naturally associate with small business. With regards to the second part of your question, I'm not familiar with the ratio that you are inquiring about. Could you rephrase that real quick?

SANJAY SAKHRANI: I guess I look at card service revenues to purchase volume -- card service fees to purchase volume. And that ratio was like 12.67% relative to the 12.75% last quarter. And when I look at the year-over-year decline, that decline was a little bit more than what we saw last quarter.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, it is a metric we do not typically look at. So this is service fee over PV? If that is what you are looking at, to the extent that we have been adjusting our pricing so that more of what we book ends up in data processing versus service fees, as was the case with a major US bank that recently signed up for 10 years, that would impact that ratio. But beyond that, I do not really have a comment. But we will look at that, and see whether there is some additional insight that we address in a future call.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Rod Bourgeois of Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I just wanted to acquire more about the restructuring actions. Can you just provide more specifics on what the restructuring actions were, and what prompted them, and also whether there is more to come? And then related to this, on a more strategic level, does the need for some restructuring recently mean you're needing more levers to keep your margin trajectory? It seems that, given the inherent operating leverage in your business, you probably do not need significant restructuring to hit your margin targets at this point. But I wanted to inquire about that in case we're missing something.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, so let me start with the last one. We do not believe in using restructuring to manage margins. We use restructuring if there are things that we want to do to right-size different parts of the company. This is not expected to continue. It doesn't mean that we won't learn things as time goes on, and decide to move resources around at the company, but that is exactly what this is.

The majority of this restructuring comes from a sharpened focus on what we're doing in our global products area. As you know, we've had some leadership changes there over the past couple of months. We've spent a lot of time, as I referenced in my remarks, talking with our clients about what we're doing, what they want from us, and where they want to focus. And that has directed us to reorient our activities.

And I think of that, by the way, as just those activities as normal practice. If we're innovating enough, if we're doing enough things, some of those things will turn out not to have all of the opportunity in them, and we will course correct. And that's what we've done here. So I think that answers all of your sub-questions. Byron, did I cover everything?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, I think that's good.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Smitti Srethapramote of Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

SMITTI SRETHAPRAMOTE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, there. Just a quick follow-up to the tokenization discussion that you talked about earlier. I'm just wondering, what is the process timeline for it to move from being a proposal to being a standard in? Can you talk about the timing on when these standards could potentially get implemented?

CHARLIE SCHARF: That is a good question, - I would be left inaccurate if I was too specific. The standards have been published. We have continued to put out some guidelines to our clients as to what fields will have to be available in releases that will come out next year, because this tokenization work requires work of acquirers and processors. And we would hope that some of these solutions would be in the marketplace by, call it, the second half of the calendar year, next year.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from David Hochstim of Buckingham Research. Your line is open.

DAVID HOCKSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi, thanks. I just wondered, could you expand again on the spending changes? Did you see changes in signature and credit on your high-end credit cards? We've talked about affluent consumers drivers driving a lot of the spending in the past. Did that change in September and October, as well? And I wonder if you could give us an update at the end of the period in terms of what signature debit's contribution is to volume, revenue and earnings?

BYRON POLLITT: We do not typically break it down between signature, or what we refer to now at Visa debit versus Interlink. I think the important call out here is that we are now lapping the full implementation of Durbin, where we had a year where there was a significant and a permanent loss of debit share as a result of the routing, and that is now in our base. And so as we begin to lap that, the debit numbers are going to look a whole lot healthier, growth numbers, than they did a year ago. With regards to specific reference to the affluent, I would say as we have articulated previously, this remains an affluent-led recovery.

To the extent that there may be some lift on debit, at least in the US, that would partially be due to a shift from credit to debit as a result of a drop in gasoline pricing. As the price of a fill-up gets more within range of immediately accessible funds, it has been our experience that we will see some shift from credit to debit. But that is a result of the drop in oil prices, and since they are in drop mode, that is something we wouldn't be surprised if we saw at the next report out.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Bill Carcache of Nomura Securities.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Thank you. Charlie, some investors have expressed concern over the inevitability of slower growth at some point in, say, the next few years, given that, just mathematically, you are growing off such a large base. Can you talk about your confidence in the sustainability of the current mid to high teens growth, as you look to the future? And perhaps comment on whether an eventual slowdown is something you worry about? Or is the run rate for growth so large that it's not even something that crosses your mind?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I think when you are new at a company that is growing like this, it is something that you think a lot about, and you look a lot about. So absolutely, it is something that, as I've gotten here, I don't know whether worry is the right word, but certainly spent a lot of time on. Listen, I don't think that the opportunities for this company are significantly different than they were 4 or 5 years ago. In fact, we believe there are things going on in the marketplace that would suggest that the opportunities are broader.

I know we are concerned about our quarters, and we are concerned about our years. We give guidance. We understand the importance of that. But here, we're talking about our belief that this company continue to grow for the long-term. The dynamics that exist with cash and check across the globe is a gigantic opportunity. I don't even know how long it will take us to actually conquer cash and check across the globe, but it is a very, very long period of time.

We also look at all of the things that are going on in the world of technology that people initially get concerned about, relative to our position. The majority of them, we look at and believe they are hugely valuable to us. The network that we have, as I've said, it is really, really, really hard to duplicate what we have. A couple of people have networks like this.

There are always going to be niche players out there, but to tackle the global opportunity that exists in growing payments, you need to have the size and the scale that some of us have. And so this is the world's great platform to be able to do that. And I do not feel any worse, and perhaps in fact, I probably feel better about the long-term growth opportunities from a revenue perspective of the company today than when I first joined. And that is consistent with what I thought at Investor Day.

JACK CARSKY: Brad, at this point, we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Your last question comes from Arvind Ramnani of BNP. Your line is open.

ARVIND RAMNANI, ANALYST, BNP PARIBAS: Hi. Just one final question. If Visa isn't being a partner with the issuers, merchants and acquirers, then why do so many groups out there putting hundreds of millions of dollars into finding a way around Visa? Why is Visa not offering them what they want anyway so badly?

CHARLIE SCHARF: We should spend some time with you offline, because we've talked a lot about, and I think I've been very, very open and honest about, our need to do business somewhat differently in some parts of the world than we've done it in the past.

So there is no question that the participants in the network have to do a better job of balancing out the role of the issuers, the acquirers and the merchants. We've not treated them as partners, as much as we possibly could, especially here in the United States. Again, other parts of the world, you get a very, very different story. And at the heart of a lot of the disagreements that we've had, we certainly believe that we have got the opportunity to change the nature of that relationship. And that is why we formed the group under Elizabeth Buse called global solutions. We are dedicated to showing up with solutions to help them grow their business over a period of time.

I've also said, this is not going to take one month, one quarter, or even a couple of quarters. It is going to take a period of time. But listen, we have the tools, we have the assets, and we have the desire to do that. And it is on us to change the nature of those relationships. We have started those conversations, and over time, it will be very easy to judge our success. But it is certainly something that we're excited about, because we know that we can add a great deal of value to the merchant community.

So with that, I guess I'll wrap it up and thank everyone for taking the time and for the effort in following our stock.

JACK CARSKY: That concludes today's call. Thank you all very much, and if you have any follow-up questions, feel free to give myself or Victoria a call.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation on today's conference call. At this time, all parties may disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131101e9au0073n
  


 HD
 Q3  2013  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,461 words
   PD
24 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal Q3 2013 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thanks, Brad. Good afternoon and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal third-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. With us today are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer; and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

As always, this call is currently being webcast over the Internet. It can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning those factors is available in the Company's filings with the SEC, which can be accessed through the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of the Visa website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed in this call, related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal third-quarter press release. This release can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our website.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Jack. Let me begin with my usual call-outs and observations. First, some color on the third quarter's 17% net revenue growth. It is important to note that this growth rate benefited from the absence of significant one-time client incentives incurred in the prior year.

Without these one-time client incentives, revenue growth for Q3 would have been closer to 14%. That said, payment volume growth was broad-based globally for the March quarter, and we're seeing double-digit growth rates in the June quarter for both credit and debit on a constant-dollar basis. Based on these trends and with three-quarters of the fiscal year now on the books, we are raising full-year 2013 revenue guidance from low double digits to around 13%.

Second, service revenue, though up 7% on a year-over-year basis, was down sequentially from the fiscal second quarter. This was primarily due to the signing of the 10-year Chase deal, which was executed in fiscal Q3 but was retroactive to the beginning of Q2. This contract, as discussed on the Q2 earnings call, disproportionately impacted the service revenue line and resulted in offsetting reductions in gross service revenue and related client incentives.

Because it was signed in fiscal Q3, the service revenue impacts for both Q2 and Q3 were recorded in the current quarter. This means the Q4 service revenue growth rate should be a more representative indicator of underlying growth.

Third, client incentives for the quarter as a percentage of gross revenue were 14.8%. As described previously, two quarters of Chase-related incentive reductions were booked in Q3. This impact was contemplated in our most recent full-year guidance, and we remain comfortable with client incentives as a percentage of gross revenue in the 16% to 17% range for the full year 2013.

Fourth, now that we have fully lap implementation of the Dodd-Frank routing rules beginning in June, quarterly Interlink payment volume growth has turned positive for the first time in over a year. Going forward, as we lap the period during which Visa's post-Dodd-Frank debit strategies took hold, we would expect healthy but moderating revenue growth rates for US debit.

Fifth, given our earnings, results year to date, and our expectations for the fiscal fourth quarter, we are increasing our fiscal 2013 adjusted EPS guidance from around 20% to the low twenties.

Lastly, as we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders, during the quarter we spent approximately $1 billion to repurchase 6 million shares at an average price of approximately $177. This leaves $61 million remaining in our prior authorization. And as we announced earlier, our Board recently authorized a new $1.5 billion share repurchase program, which will run through July of 2014.

Now let's turn to the numbers. As is our practice, I will cover our global payment volume and processed transaction trends for the fiscal third quarter, followed by our results through July 21. I will then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal third quarter and conclude with our guidance outlook for the balance of fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2014.

Global payment volume growth for the June quarter in constant dollars was 13%, above the March quarter's 9%. This was driven by sustained growth in all of our regions, including the US, which saw some incremental benefit from the lapping effects associated with US debit regulations.

More recently, in the US through July 21, payment volume growth was 10% compared with 11% in the June-ending quarter. Drilling down further, US credit growth of 10% held at Q3 levels; while debit, which also grew at 10%, experienced a healthy but moderating growth rate as we lap the growing impact of Visa's US debit strategies.

Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 11% constant-dollar growth rate in the June quarter, which compares to a 10% rate in the March quarter. The US grew 9%, and the rest of world, 12%.

Through July 21, cross-border volume on a constant-dollar basis grew 7%, with a US growth rate of 9% and the rest of world at 6%. The slowing growth in July is most pronounced outside the US and, we believe, is due in large part to the timing of Ramadan versus last year.

Based on historical travel patterns, we estimate the Ramadan impact to be in the 250 to 300 basis points range for the month, and if past is prologue, we should see a bounce-back in August.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled 15 billion in the fiscal third quarter, a 14% increase over the prior-year period. The US grew 12%, while the rest of world delivered 23% growth. We have now fully lap the negative impacts associated with US debit regulation. Through July 21 processed transaction growth was a positive 14%.

Lastly, please note that in our Operational Performance Data pack that was released with today's earnings results, we updated the cash volume in our LAC region to account for several quarters of underreporting by one of our largest issuers in Brazil. As a reminder, these cash volumes have no impact to our revenue.

Now turning to the income statement. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $3 billion, a 17% increase year over year, driven by solid growth globally in both domestic and international transactions; and, as mentioned earlier, aided by significant nonrecurring incentives in the prior-year quarter.

Currency hedging resulted in only a modest foreign-exchange headwind on net revenue in the quarter. Looking ahead, after factoring in our hedging program, we anticipate continued headwinds in the next fiscal quarter and for fiscal 2014.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.3 billion, up 7% over the prior-year period. On a sequential basis, growth was negatively impacted by the Chase agreement, which, as I previously outlined, resulted in lower service revenue, offset by a lower level of incentives paid to Chase.

Data processing revenue was $1.2 billion, up 15% over the prior year's quarter, based on solid growth rates in Visa processed transactions inside and outside the US and strong CyberSource transaction growth. With the full lapping of the implementation of US debit regulation, data processing revenue growth is now relatively on par with processed transaction growth.

International transaction revenue was up 14% to $854 million, reflecting solid strength in cross-border volume and some modest benefit from higher currency volatility.

As I highlighted earlier, client incentives as a percentage of gross revenue for the quarter came in at 14.8%, positively impacted by the Chase deal. That said, we anticipate a meaningful step up in both incentive dollars and the percentage rate in Q4, due to anticipated deal activity both domestic and international, which should put us within our 2013 guidance range of 16% to 17%.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $1.2 billion, up 9% from the prior year adjusted results. This was primarily due to higher costs associated with investments in our growth strategies.

Marketing expenses were up 4% from the prior year and stepped up from the prior quarter as we increased marketing to support a number of sponsorship campaigns, including the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup in South America and the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics.

Operating margin for the quarter was 61% and is consistent with our current guidance. Our effective tax rate for Q3 was 33.2%. While higher than our full-year guidance of 30% to 32%, the year-to-date figure of 31% is tracking to that range. Net income at $1.2 billion was up 16% over the prior-year adjusted results.

Fully diluted EPS was $1.88 for the quarter, up 20% over prior-year adjusted results. Stronger than anticipated revenue and more aggressive share repurchases were key drivers. And as noted earlier, our full-year adjusted EPS guidance is now low twenties.

Capital expenditures were $122 million in the quarter and continue to be in line with our full-year expectations.

At the end of the June quarter we had 645 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding on an as-converted basis. The weighted average number of fully diluted shares outstanding for the June quarter totaled 651 million.

Finally, in terms of guidance, other than our refinement of full-year 2013 revenue guidance to around 13% and adjusted diluted earnings per share growth to low twenties, all other outstanding guidance metrics for the full-year fiscal 2013 and 2014 remain the same.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Byron, and good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I just want to reiterate that we feel very good about our performance this quarter. There is very little new news in the underlying revenue trends, as Byron has just described, which means that we continue to see broad-based growth geographically and also by product. And these are at growth rates consistent with what we have seen in prior quarters.

People often ask us about what we see in the economy. And what I guess we can say is we don't see meaningful changes to the path of the economic recovery. And while an accelerating and certainly more broad-based recovery would be beneficial to us and our clients, we do continue to feel very good about our business and our ability to deliver strong results in the current economic environment.

We did host our Investor Day on June 6, and I want to thank all those who attended, both physically and listened in. We know it was a lengthy call, but hopefully you found it productive. We certainly appreciate all the feedback that we received.

Just a couple of quick reminders about some of the important themes that we covered. First of all, we feel great about the strong foundation that this Company has been built on. There's been strong historical growth. We have great partners, and the Company has a tradition of innovation.

Second, the macro trends have and will continue to provide tailwinds. The opportunity to move transactions from cash to electronic means is still huge and, we believe, will be there for years to come. This is true in both the developed and the developing parts of the world.

As we pointed out on Investor Day, we have 22% share PCE in the developed markets; and 9% in the emerging markets, so there's still much room to grow in addition to us growing along with the growth of PCE across the world.

We love our core network. It serves us well. We think it provides us tremendous opportunities to leverage and grow our business. Historically, what has really benefited us has been the global acceptance; the network reliability, safety, security and soundness; and our risk-related tools are just a huge value-added component to the network.

While we continue to build on these historical strengths, as we pointed out at the Investor Day, the future for us will be about using the network as a tool to continue to create more value for issuers, acquirers, and merchants. And that includes us building broader capabilities, but also giving them access to our network as a device that connects them together.

Third, the Company has and continues to make huge investments in the future. We walked through some of the additional spending that's been done, to the tune of an additional $700 million versus prior years, which are, for the most part, all geared towards growth opportunities.

And lastly, we talked about our evolving rules and practices, recognizing how the payments world is evolving. We recognize the need to evolve our Company, but we also feel strongly that we need to continue to preserve some core principles. Those include the importance of the Visa brand; the safety, security, and soundness of the payment system; that we continue to protect and control our intellectual property; and that we enable clients of all sizes to compete. So in short, these are things that, while we think we can continue to do more and more for all of our clients, we think these things could also add value to the Visa network.

Let me turn now to a little bit of an update on some of the regulatory and litigation items that have both been in the news and we have spoken about. First of all, in the United States on the MDL case, the deadline for the opt-outs was May 28. As expected, I'm sure you saw lawsuits that were filed against Visa, MasterCard, and in some cases, the banks from retailers which opted out of the merchant settlement agreement last year.

The final figures are still being calculated, but our estimate of the opt-outs is that they represent slightly above 25% of our US credit volume. We continue to expect approval from the court sometime in the Fall.

I do want to stress that these are proceedings that have been ongoing for a long period of time. We remain committed to figuring out how to work with merchants of all sizes to resolve all of our differences amicably. And we, as you have heard from us, are focused on finding new ways to work with them in conjunction with acquirers and issuers to support all of the individual constituents' growth objectives.

Secondly, Canada -- yesterday Canada's Competition Tribunal issued its decision to dismiss the Competition Bureau's case and uphold our No Surcharge and Honour All Cards rule. We have and we will continue to engage with legislators and regulators around the world to promote the understanding of the value of electronic payments to consumers, merchants, and governments, broadly.

We now turn to Europe. And just as a reminder, Visa Inc. and Visa Europe are separate, independent operating companies.

First of all, let me talk about in May we alerted you to a European Commission inquiry by the Director of General Competition related to interregional credit interchange rates. That investigation specifically relates to the interchange applied to transactions between a non-European Union cardholder and a merchant located within the European Union. We continue to assess their claims, and we are working in a productive and professional manner with them and hope to reach resolution, but there's nothing more to report at this time.

Separately, the European Commission earlier today released proposed legislation for the payments industry in the European Union, which had been expected. The proposed regulation covers a wide range of topics related to the European payments industry, including domestic and intra-EU cross-border interchange rates, co-badging requirements, processing requirements, and point-of-sale rules such as Honour All Cards.

The most recent announcement from the Commission appears to address issues similar to the Commission's competition case, but the proposed regulation would only apply to transactions when the issuer and an acquirer are located in the European Union. We understand the proposed legislation is beginning of what we expect could be a long process which could take 18 to 24 months. We will continue to keep you updated if we learn of any more developments in either of these two proceedings.

Also in Europe, I'm sure we would get a question about the Visa Europe put, and there is no update on that.

Let me move now to talk for a second about a topic which has a lot of you are writing about and has gotten a lot of press, and that is tokenization. And let's start with stating the obvious, which is we all know that transactions are increasingly moving to digital card-not-present channels due to the growth of Web commerce, mobile, and digital wallets.

As you've heard from us in the past, we have been building our capabilities to deal with transactions like this, both technically and through our rules and requirements. V.me and CyberSource are just two examples where we have made significant investments to build capabilities in this space.

And as we talk about tokenization, I do want to just make the point that tokenization is not a new concept to us. Historically, we defined the 16-digit account number and message set, and these effectively operate as tokens in the payment system today.

The reality is the development of digital commerce and related risk makes the evolution of these existing tokens to a more secure form very necessary in a way that works both in the physical and the digital worlds. We need to eliminate the flow of sensitive data that might be vulnerable to a breach, and new entrants into the payment ecosystem has also brought into question whether the appropriate information will continue to flow between merchant, acquirer, issuer, and consumer. And rightly so, the entire payments industry is focused on this.

You read earlier this month about efforts that The Clearing House has underway, with its 22 US banks, to do some work on this topic as well. We believe that we play a critical role in helping to define the standards for token implementation broadly.

We are working closely across the entire payments ecosystem, defined very broadly, to do this. This is an area where everyone needs to work closely together. And it is paramount that we ensure transparency, security, and integrity so that the integrity of the payment system remains.

Successful tokenization initiatives must also be interoperable and standardized and do several very important things. Number one is they need to deliver value to all stakeholders. That includes issuers, consumers, merchants, acquirers, payment gateways, and everyone involved in the digital commerce platform.

It's got to be standards-based, technology agnostic, such that a tokenization solution builds on the existing open nature of the payments industry while also aligning with emerging payment innovations such as mobile and digital wallets. As I said before, it needs to deliver at least the same level of transparency and reliability that exists today. And equally important, it needs to address the needs of everyone globally, not just in the United States.

As I said before, we are committed to working on this broadly with all of our partners. It's something we are working on, and we feel very good about the progress that we're making with our partners on this one.

In conclusion, I just want to also talk about the repurchase program that Byron mentioned. It is the ninth share repurchase program that the Company has authorized. Since the IPO, our Board of Directors has authorized over $11 billion in share repurchase programs.

And as we've talked about, I think, almost on every call, at the Investor Day, and since I have joined, that we remain committed to returning excess cash to shareholders, both through repurchase programs like this as well as further dividend increases. So having been here for 9 months, as I commented at Investor Day, I remain more bullish as each day goes on when we look at the opportunities that exist in the industry and the assets, and the ideas, and the people that we have at Visa.

So with that, operator, Byron and I are ready to take any questions that are out there.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Andrew Jeffrey, SunTrust.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Charlie, could you speak broadly about Visa's US consumer credit share, and how you feel you are positioned to expand share and continue above trendline growth, especially as some of your competitors potentially are sharpening the pencil a little bit in the US?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. Listen, I think we're blessed with just an outstanding US credit franchise, which has been built up through the years through terrific relationships, for sure. We look at the partners that we have, and look at their performance; and certainly, our performance has been helped by their strong performance. And that is true both on the issuer side as well as on the co-brand side.

We've also been, certainly, beneficiaries in the United States credit market as the affluent customer has recovered more quickly than the non-affluent customer. And as we look forward, a more broad-based recovery is something which should be additive to the affluent business that we have today.

Ultimately, our ability to compete as effectively as we have within the United States revolves around all of the things that we've have been talking about here that we know we need to continue to build out. Those include what we're doing in the digital space, they include what we're doing in the mobile space, as well as just continuing to provide the flexibility that we talked about in terms of our core product set.

So, listen, and I know from the prior role that I played, the market has always been a competitive one. There have always been networks out there competing for the same business. The pencils have been sharp for a period of time. And as we think about what we've got to do going forward, we certainly expect that to continue.

OPERATOR: Dan Perlin, RBC.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I'm just interested to know how important local market processing through DPS and VPS is to you guys. From a long-term growth perspective, it does represent an important enhancer to the yield, as you have talked about.

You highlighted it at the Analyst Day, and it seems to be coming up with some pros and cons in various economies, as you outlined in your prepared remarks. So if you could just speak to that point, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, listen. As we talked about at Investor Day, processing, we think, is the second part of the equation that we can provide for our customers. When we process the transaction, when the transaction goes over our network, we are enabled to -- that gives us the opportunity to do all the things that we can do, both from a risk perspective as well as being able to provide all the analytical information that we can provide back to the issuers in order for them to help grow their business.

BYRON POLLITT: And I would just add, the more we integrate into the processing pipeline, the more we have an opportunity to differentiate our service offerings. So in the case of DPS, this creates an opportunity for us to introduce more innovative product services via mobile, as an example, and to add to form factors that expand the activation capability or opportunity for our clients. So where we can provide processing services like DPS, which have the single-largest debit scale potentially outside of China, I suppose, this is an area where we can excel in delivering client service.

OPERATOR: Donald Fandetti, Citigroup.

DONALD FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Charlie, I was curious if there are any updates on the Visa/Chase network deal in terms of timing. I think there was going to be some type of pilot or something by the end of the year.

And then, also, I was wondering if you have any sense on the scope of that initiative. Would it be just be for merchants or transactions that are acquired through Paymentech, or could that be broadened to other merchants indirectly?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Okay. So on the first part of the question, I continue to say this, which is when it comes to what Chase Merchant Services is doing, there are a series of questions that you need to ask them about. What we are doing is providing the capabilities that we outlined several quarters ago.

We are on schedule to deliver the ability for CMS to be in the marketplace by the fourth quarter. What actually winds up in the marketplace is really driven by them through their discussions with merchants. And -- again, so that is a question for them.

And the agreement holds that they need to have a direct relationship with a merchant in order to take advantage of whatever it is they intend to provide through CMS. And so, as I've said, I would expect that sometimes as we get into next year that we would start to see some things in the marketplace. And at that point we will all be in a position to evaluate what we think the benefits of them are.

OPERATOR: Chris Brendler, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: I was wondering if you could give us an update on V.me, specifically on merchant acceptance. It seems, from my perspective, that I haven't seen as broad an acceptance as I would have expected at this point. I think you had some concrete goals for the top 100 retailers by the end of this year.

Is there an acceleration coming? What's the issue? Is it difficult to get merchants to add V.me?

And then in line with that, or along those lines, MCX -- is this something that you think potentially is a competitive threat? It seems to be gaining a little bit of momentum. And is V.me a key part of your strategy in combating merchant mobile wallets? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me start with V.me. When we talk about V.me, you know, you can't -- it's hard to separate out how we're doing with issuers versus how we are doing with merchants, because in our discussions with each, we really need to have to grow both sides in order to be successful, right?

It is the chicken and the egg, which is merchants aren't going to want to spend the time, and the effort, and the money to establish V.me on their site unless they think there's a real need for it. And the issuers are going to be careful about marketing it to their clients until there is a meaningful amount of acceptance.

Having said that, we now have about 90 US financial institutions as partners. They include BofA, PNC, BBVA, ICBA, and others. And some of those have started actively to market these programs.

We have signed an additional 72 merchants this past quarter, bringing the total signed number of merchants to 253 -- many, many of which will go live in the coming weeks and months. So there is a lot more coming here. There is a fairly significant pipeline of merchants. As we continue to work with acquirers on this to get it in the marketplace, we will report back.

And MCX was the second question. Listen, I think MCX -- we know what you know about MCX, which is -- you might know more than us. So our view on MCX is that we will learn as they continue to disclose what it is they are doing, and we're focused on doing what we can to build the right kind of tools to work with merchants so that they want to do business with us.

OPERATOR: Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Everything looks pretty clean. I guess I will just ask about US debit growth. That did bounce back nicely, to 12%.

I was just looking at the 10-Q; it says Interlink processed transactions were up 25%. I know it has been running down pretty sharply, so that was a pretty big step up. I'm curious, is that sustainable, and what's driving it? Did you flip on some new cards? Or is itPAVD? Any detail there would be great, thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Tien-Tsin, remember, we're lapping the implementation of the Dodd-Frank -- not supposed to say Durbin anymore -- Dodd-Frank rules, which took effect April 1 of last year. So it was in that quarter that we experienced the single-largest negative growth rate in terms of Interlink volume. In fact, it was a 54% reduction in payment volume growth in the June-ending quarter 2012.

And then in the coming quarters, as our strategies began to gradually take hold, we started to see a less negative growth rate. So one could deduce from that that in terms of actual year-over-year growth rates, it's conceivable that this June ending quarter might be high tide. And then as we begin to lap the other quarters, the subsequent quarters, that the relative growth rates have a tougher comp to deliver.

I'd also just like to underscore that there is no way we're going to recover all that market share that we have conceded as a result of the legislative change. So I think that there will be -- we still need a few more quarters in order to get to some sort of normalized state.

But as I said in my earnings commentary, in the subsequent quarters we still expect healthy growth rates in US debit. But everything else being equal, they should moderate a bit as they begin to lap the strategies we put into place, which in turn had growing effectiveness as time passes.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me just add to that. So the follow-up is we still think we have, from our perspective, a business which can grow at a reasonable rate, understanding that we believe we have permanently lost share because of legislation. And those two things can coexist.

OPERATOR: Glenn Greene, Oppenheimer.

GLENN GREENE, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Regarding the EU proposal, I wanted to just get some context from you regarding whether or not it's having any bearings on your discussions with Visa Europe regarding their potential to exercise the put, as well as negotiation of the specific terms -- meaning, has this been somewhat of a stumbling block getting clarity on the EU proposal?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I think you've got to ask them, Visa Europe has a put. And so that means we don't have a call. And we can't even proactively engage them in a discussion on price, or things like that.

So what impacts their thinking relative to their desire to put the Company, you really have to ask them. I mean, I think it is a complicated set of circumstances. There's a lot going on in Europe right now, and I think you can make arguments either way, whether it makes -- if you were sitting in their position, whether it would make you more willing or less willing. But it is their decision, so they are the appropriate people to answer the question.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Two questions. First, could you comment on China? There seems to be some movement in terms of issuers being allowed to issue cards in China, some discussion regarding processing. I was wondering if you could discuss if there's been any thawing of those discussions, or your thought process around timing of when the market might become open to you.

Secondly, on incentives, like you said, you got two quarters of benefit from the Chase deal in this quarter, I believe is what you said. But looking out to next year, is it reasonable to believe that you could come in as a percentage of gross revenue below the bottom end of this year's guidance due to the new arrangement? Or other clients increasing, and therefore that's a false assumption? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Why don't I start with China? And unfortunately, there's still not a lot of new news to talk about with China. The agreement with the WTO requires China to issue regulations by the end of July to open up the domestic market to foreign competition.

From what we've seen, there has been some very small, incremental things announced by the Chinese government, but they have not been clear as we read the information to lay out a road map to open up the domestic marketplace. So we're waiting with everyone else until that happens. We have no better idea than anyone else what form that will take, what time period, the opportunity for us, in what time period that opportunity would evolve.

And so there's not a lot there. Now, having said that, we are still in the same place with, we feel, from a long-term perspective, putting aside whether it is one quarter, four quarters, or eight quarters away, the opportunity to compete in the domestic marketplace in China with the capabilities that we have we think could be significant over a long period of time. Unfortunately, we still don't know what the time period is and what the requirements to participate will be.

BYRON POLLITT: Over to incentives. You ask an interesting question. There's clearly two forces at work here, one of which is the Chase contract, where the pricing has been restructured so that it is more per transaction. There are still incentives related to the contract, but not nearly at the magnitude that they were pre-contract.

At the same time, the vast majority of our issuers are in growth mode with their portfolios. The larger they grow their portfolios, the more incentives we pay. And that has been our business model for decades.

And so as is our practice, we will schedule those out over the next two months. We will also take a hard look at what contracts are likely to renew in the coming year, which also weighs into that calculation, and then give you a report out in October.

Let me just signal, in the spirit of your question, that in our view it is best to model incentives on a full-year basis, recognizing that they can have a lot of variation between quarters. And as I said in my earnings remarks, in Q4 we expect an above-average level of deal activity as we move to the closing out of our fiscal year. And therefore we expect a higher client incentives as a percentage of gross revenue, and you should not consider that representative of the go-forward trend.

OPERATOR: Tom McCrohan, Janney.

TOM MCCROHAN, ANALYST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT: Just a quick question on card-not-present. Given the growth in eCommerce, how much of Visa's line today is card-not-present eCommerce volume? And is the revenue yield on those type of transactions the same as for transactions that are card-present? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Good question. That's not something that we have decided to speak about publicly at this point. Inevitably, though, I think that's something that we will be talking about much more in the future, since that is the fastest-growing channel that we have.

And by way of form factor, within form factor the fastest-growing factor is mobile. And the two of them clearly are linked. So I would say we're short on detail today, but more to come in the future.

OPERATOR: Moshe Katri, Cowen.

MOSHE KATRI, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Byron, can you talk a bit about credit in the US? Maybe compare what you are seeing on the corporate side versus on the consumer side of the business, and if there are any changes during the quarter?

BYRON POLLITT: I would say that in terms of health, the corporate side is healthy. But the factors that are fueling the really strong performance we have been experiencing in consumer credit constitute more of a tailwind.

When we look across the corporate spend, a lot of that has to do with the degree of recovery in the economies across the globe. Our view is that the recovery -- this is a technical term -- is sluggish, which is one step above anemic. And given that enthusiastic description, the very fact that we are seeing positive growth in corporate spend on cards in categories like airlines and the T&E components we view as encouraging.

Having said that, there is for us, in our view, a significant opportunity to further penetrate the commercial sector. We have invested significantly in our commercial information platforms that support that part of the business with our commercial clients. And we believe with the investments we've made in our IntelliLink platform, that we are well positioned to experience meaningful growth in this market segment in the years to come.

OPERATOR: Arvind Ramnani, BNP.

ARVIND RAMNANI, ANALYST, EXANE BNP PARIBAS: A good quarter. I just had a quick question on the -- clearly the affluent has come back, but what are your assumptions for continued growth from the affluent market? And also, what is your view on the non-affluent market?

BYRON POLLITT: So the affluent part of our portfolio really has been the driver of the credit spend that we have been reporting over the past year. In the last quarter or two we are starting to see some participation from the next income cohort down, but it is not yet significant. And therefore, it's not a material driver in our results to date.

As we look out into the coming year, when I described the underlying economic growth as sluggish, if I were to relate that to the US, creating 200,000 jobs a month -- which is the minimum to make any progress against unemployment -- we would describe that as not anemic, but as sluggish growth. But it is creating new jobs. And those new jobs ultimately translate into spend.

And so our outlook is that the non-affluent spend will contribute more, but not significantly more to the payment volume spend in the coming year. That's how we're thinking about it. And when we gave our guidance for 2014, the limited guidance at this point, that was the assumptions that underpinned the growth rates we expressed.

OPERATOR: Smitti Srethapramote, Morgan Stanley.

SMITTI SRETHAPRAMOTE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: International revenue growth was strong in relation to cross-border volume growth. Can you talk about the drivers behind that? And how much of a lift did you guys get from a mix shift toward higher-yielding geographies?

BYRON POLLITT: So I would say that there's a little bit of mix; there's a lot of volatility. So whenever there is significant volatility in the currency markets, that translates into higher international revenue for us.

That is something that can appear in one quarter and disappear the next, relative to whatever an average volatility is. We have been seeing, with the strengthening of the dollar, the volatility in the Australian dollar; Japanese yen; to a lesser extent, the euro and the sterling; the turbulence in those markets is really -- and the associated volatility -- is the principal driver of the difference in international revenue versus the actual number of -- versus the growth in payment volume that we experienced.

OPERATOR: Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: A two-part question about Europe. So if you were a network competing in the vast majority of Europe, what do you like and not like about the EC's regulatory proposals that have recently been released?

And the second part of the question is, is there any worry that Europe's regulatory moves might fuel merchants to push for regulation in other countries, such as the US and/or emerging countries?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, again, so this is our view if we were Europeans, which we are certainly not. I guess when we read it, the things that we like about it are, first of all, there is recognition in the value of interchange. We can argue about what that number is, but we've heard lots of things through the years about whether interchange should exist or not exist in some parts of the world. And recognition that it belongs is a statement in itself. And certainly I would put no-surcharge into that category as well.

And then the thing I would say which straddles both sides, the good and the bad, is a level playing field. And so card networks that operate both 3-party and 4-party models fall into both sides of the camp.

So on the one hand, it's a positive thing to bring some parts of their business into this level playing field, but the fact is, there is still a meaningful part of the marketplace that there's just -- you can argue unfair advantage has been given and doesn't actually solve whatever the underlying regs are supposed to solve.

The second thing I would put in the negative category is co-badging. And the third thing I would put is the splitting of processing from the brand. And the second part of Rod's question was --?

BYRON POLLITT: Will it metastasize to other areas of the world?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, so I think it is -- the whole world -- the world is a big place, but everyone sees what everyone else does, for sure. Some people have seen what happened here in the US on debit. They've seen Australia. They have been watching Canada. They have been watching Europe.

So, certainly, you have to believe that when one significant part of the world does something, that the other part of the world looks at it. In this case, remember, this is proposed legislation. It will take several years for comments and for it to work through its process.

So the things that have been decided here, as best I can tell, are not set in stone. And we will see how these things actually evolve in the marketplace.

OPERATOR: Dave Koning, Baird.

DAVE KONING, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD & COMPANY, INC.: Just looking at the 10-Q, rest of world revenue -- not just the international line, but actual rest of world revenue was up 24% this quarter. The last four it was up about 10% to 14%. And I think the explanation of some FX volatility probably helped on the cross-border part of that, but it was a pretty big acceleration. Maybe you can talk through a couple of other reasons that that also accelerated so much.

BYRON POLLITT: There are two reasons that matter. You hit the first one, which is the boost in international , we book that into the rest of world line.

And the second, if you recall, when I mentioned that the 17% revenue growth for the quarter benefited from significant nonrecurring incentives, that brought the growth rate down by several percentage points if you were to exclude those. All of those significant nonrecurring incentives were outside the United States.

So they had the effect of amplifying the growth rate of rest of world. And those are the two main drivers.

OPERATOR: James Friedman, Susquehanna.

JAMES FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP/SIG: A quick question on EMV. Looks like we're about 18 months from the deadline set in 2015. Are you seeing banks accelerate the issuance of EMV cards ahead of the deadlines? And any comments on EMV with regard to merchant acceptance would be interesting? Thank you.

CHARLIE SCHARF: We certainly hear a fair amount being discussed about it. And we also have, I think, more issuers in the United States issuing chip cards due to the importance of making for an easy acceptance experience when people travel outside the United States.

I don't have the numbers in terms of the amount of EMV cards that are being issued today. It is bigger than it's been, but it's not by any stretch of the imagination the majority of the cards yet. But I did read something recently that suggested that the percentage of issuers that are intending to do it is growing. But I don't think we know any more than that today.

And on the merchant side, I would say it's a similar conversation, with the exception being to the extent that machines in merchants' facilities have to be replaced. They appear to be being replaced with machines that will accept the new form of card.

JACK CARSKY: Brad, that this point we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Darrin Peller, Barclays.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Just want to jump in. Year to date we're clearly seeing a more meaningful margin expansion for this year, again, versus what we saw in the prior year, really prior year or two. Average margins for the first 3 quarters are around 62.5%, so really more than 100 basis points expansion year over year.

Is there anything unique about the year's quarterly revenues, or maybe the operating leverage in the model in the past quarters, that shouldn't repeat? Or is there something that we can expect this type of margin upside just from stored operating leverage embedded in the model?

BYRON POLLITT: Let me respond to that in two ways. First of all, I just want to anchor the group back into the guidance for 2013, since we're talking margins. And you began with year to date.

So we held our guidance at around 60% operating margin, which the math implies that the year to date is trending higher than what we would expect for the fourth quarter, which is why we kept it at around 60%. So pointone.

Point two, there is fundamental operating leverage in the business, as you know. We have been very consistent in that we don't solve for operating margins; we don't have targets; we don't have internal requirements. What we do solve for are investments that drive shareholder value.

It is the nature of our business that many of those investments are expense versus capital. And therefore, as we continue to ramp up the investments that support our growth strategies, they often carry a significant expense component to them and would immediately put downward pressure on margins.

And I think it's safe to say that that philosophy of investing for growth and value, both today and tomorrow, is a philosophy we intend to follow. And that if that means some sacrifice of theoretically higher margins, we're fully prepared to do that in the name of shareholder value.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And let me just add one more thing to that, which is as has been pointed out by a bunch of you, and also on this call, is we do operate in a competitive marketplace. And it wouldn't be right for our long-term shareholder interests to be thinking about how our services should be priced based upon a commitment that we would make to you all to continue to increase the margin levels that we have.

We have to look at each transaction and say, how does the market price those transactions? What value do we think we're providing? And have the ability to compete effectively if we think it makes sense. And so that all gets factored into the guidance that is given.

JACK CARSKY: And with that, we want to thank you all for joining us here today. And if anybody has follow-up questions, please feel free to call Investor Relations. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation on the conference call today. At this time, all parties may disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130731e97o00899
  


 HD
 Q2  2013  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,827 words
   PD
1 May 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Incorporated fiscal Q2 2013 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal quarter second-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. With us today are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer; and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the Internet. It can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for the next 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. And as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning these factors is available in the Company's filings with the SEC, which can be accessed through the SEC's website in the Investor Relations section of the Visa website. For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Reg G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summaries accompanying our fiscal second-quarter press release. This release can also be accessed through the IR section of our website.

With that, and in contrast to what has been our historical pattern, I'll now turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Jack. Let me begin with my usual callouts and observations. First, Visa's 15% net revenue growth in fiscal second-quarter was once again broad-based, as we continue to see strong credit and debit growth in the US and rest of world, which is now supported by a return to positive growth in our aggregate US debit business.

Second, client incentives for the quarter, as a percentage of gross revenue, were 16.1%. Similar to last quarter, this was a result of lower-than-expected deal activity. However, for the balance of fiscal 2013, we expect lower incentive levels than originally projected. The new 10-year deal structure with Chase has the effect of simultaneously reducing both gross fees and revenue incentives with one largely offsetting the other. This contractual change, which is now signed and in effect, in combination with deal timing and revenue mix, have caused us to lower our full-year client incentive outlook from 18% to 18.5%, down to 16% to 17% for fiscal 2013.

Third, aggregate US debit payment volume growth turned positive in the fiscal second-quarter of 2013 versus a negative 3% in the fiscal first quarter. Of note, the month of March saw the onset of a significant positive inflection point, as we lapped last year's adoption of the Dodd-Frank routing rules for US debit. While interlink payment volume growth was in negative mid-teen territory, Visa debit payment volumes saw a 12% rate of growth.

Fourth, as a result of a more certain revenue outlook, and earlier than planned share repurchases, we are increasing our fiscal 2013 EPS guidance from high-teens to around 20%. Lastly, as we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders, and to this end during the quarter, we spent $1.8 billion to repurchase 12 million shares at an average price of $157. This means the first, through the first two fiscal quarters, we have spent $3.1 billion to repurchase 20 million shares at an average price of $152. As we begin the fiscal third quarter, our remaining open-to-buy stands at 1 billion.

Now let's turn to the numbers. As is our practice, I will cover our global payment volume and process transaction trends for the fiscal second quarter, followed by our results through April 28. I'll then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal second quarter and conclude with our guidance outlook for the balance of fiscal 2013.

The payment volume growth rates which follow are unadjusted for the leap year in 2012. Normalizing the month of February would add about 1 percentage point of growth to the second quarter's results. Global payment volume growth for the March quarter in constant dollars was 9%, on par with the December quarter's 9%. This was driven by a sustained growth in all of our regions, including the US, which saw some incremental benefit from the early lapping effects associated with US debit regulations. More recently, in the US, through April 28, payment volume growth was 12%, compared with 4% in the March ending quarter.

US credit growth held at Q2 levels, while debit experienced improved growth rates. Global, cross-border volume delivered a solid 10% constant dollar growth rate in the March quarter, which compares to 11% rate in the December quarter. The US grew 9%, and the rest of world 11%. Through April 28, cross-border volume on a constant dollar basis grew 10%, with the US growth rate of 7% and rest of world at 12%.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled $13.9 billion in the fiscal second quarter, a 6% increase over the prior-year period. The US saw a 3% increase in transactions, while the rest of world delivered 21% growth. Through April 28, process transaction growth was a positive 15%, driven in part by the lapping of the US debit routing regulations. Separately, cyber source reported 1.6 billion transactions for the period, a 25% increase over the prior year.

Turning to the income statement, net operating revenue in the quarter was $3 billion, a 15% increase year-over-year, driven by solid growth in global payment volumes, data processing revenues, international revenues, and as mentioned earlier, lower-than-anticipated client incentives. Hedging resulted in no meaningful foreign exchange impact on net revenue in the quarter.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.4 billion, up 10% over the prior-year period. Revenue growth was in line with constant dollar payment volume growth. Data processing revenue was $1.2 billion, up 25% over the prior year's quarter, based on solid growth rates in Visa process transactions inside and outside the US, strong cyber source transaction growth, as well as strategic pricing actions taken last year related to the restructuring of our pricing in the US debit market.

International transaction revenue was up 13% to $831 million, reflecting solid strength in cross-border volumes. As I highlighted earlier, client incentives as a percentage of gross revenue for the quarter came in at 16.1%, lower than we had anticipated on a percentage basis, due to the timing of deals in the quarter. Looking forward, the change in pricing structure related to the Chase contract, in combination with deal timing and revenue mix, now suggests full-year client incentives in the 16% to 17% range.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $1.1 billion, up 13% from the prior year. This was primarily due to higher costs associated with investments in our growth strategies. The rate of operating expense growth should slow in the second half. Marketing expenses were up 15%, primarily due to a low spend level in the prior year, largely related to the timing of the London Summer Olympics. Spend will step up in the fiscal third and fourth quarters, as we increase marketing to support a number of campaigns, including the FIFA Confederations Cup in South America.

Operating margin for the quarter was 63%. While slightly ahead of our full-year guidance of about 60%, this margin level is consistent with how we planned for the year. Our effective tax rate for Q2 was 31.6% and is fully consistent with our full-year guidance of 30% to 32%. Net income at $1.3 billion was up 17% over prior-year adjusted results. Fully diluted EPS was $1.92 for the quarter, up 20% over prior-year adjusted results, due in part to a strong commitment to return excess cash in the form of share repurchase. As noted earlier, our full-year adjusted EPS guidance is now around 20%.

Finally, capital expenditures were $111 million in the quarter and continue to be in line with our full-year expectations. The weighted average number of fully diluted shares for the fiscal second-quarter totaled $660 million. Other than the changes to our client incentives and diluted earnings per share growth, all other outstanding guidance remains the same.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Byron, and good afternoon, everyone. We're happy with our continued strong performance. And as Byron walked us through, it was a strong growth across the world. Economic uncertainty does remain, but our business model continues to prove itself through all environments, and growth rates, as Byron had mentioned, have continued through April, which makes us feel quite good. We continue to build on some exciting partnerships around the world, both traditional and involving emerging technologies. Just a few important examples of these I want to mention.

We executed a multi-year co-brand renewal with Southwest Airlines, one of our largest co-brands in the United States. We've talked about V.me before. We now have 82 US issuers who have agreed to participate. We have more than 180 merchants signed, 20 of which are top 100 Internet retailers, and there are 37 merchants live today and more coming online as we talk.

During the quarter, we also announced a broad-based partnership agreement with Samsung covering Visa's payment capabilities on Samsung devices. Samsung phones will be preloaded with Visa payWave for contactless payments, and the Visa mobile provisioning service to securely download payment account information to NFC-enabled Samsung devices. These are just a couple of examples of some of the most important things that we executed in the quarter.

I want to turn and talk for a second about Europe. There's been a lot of discussion about a couple of items, so we thought we would walk through each of these one by one. First of all, let's just talk about our relationship with Visa Europe and the put. I guess I would say is, we've read what you've read. We do not know what they'll do. And just as a reminder, they have a put, so it's their decision; we do not have a call.

The way we think about it, they have three options relative to our relationship. They can keep our relationship as is; they can exercise the put; or they can propose an alternative, which is different from the put. If they choose to exercise the put, there's a clearly defined process for that. If they were to propose something other than the put, we would consider it. And if so inclined, we would negotiate it in normal course; but the process of the put would not apply. It was clear when I got here that we're always prepared if they choose to exercise the put to go through the process, and have our points of view on that.

And having said all that, we believe that we compete effectively now, but there certainly are clear benefits over the long-term to be one company. And I've talked about that before. I think it's true both for Visa Inc. as well as for Europe, but they need to come to that conclusion themselves.

But I think the most importantly in all of this is, we are prepared to compete regardless of the structure, regardless of which avenue they go down. And if the situation changes, we'll obviously report back. But as of now, what you read are the facts, I believe.

The second issue is the EC inquiry. They are investigating intra-European credit interchange rates and inter-regional credit interchange rates, which is where a non-European cardholder uses their card within Europe. They are also investigating certain MasterCard rates as well. If the EC ultimately challenges Visa and MasterCard's conduct, we expect that would seek to prohibit Visa and MasterCard from setting default interregional interchange rates at their current levels. In addition, the EC is investigating Honor All Cards, no surcharge rules, as well as the practice of lending merchant fees. We're in discussions with the EC and have nothing to report yet.

There is a disagreement to the extent Visa Europe has an obligation to indemnify Visa Inc. on this issue. We're confident in our position that Visa Europe is obligated to indemnify Visa Inc., and we are engaged in conversations with them to resolve the matter.

Let me move and just quickly cover two regulatory and litigation items that you are all aware of. The first one is the MDL. The deadline for the opt-outs is May 28 and we're confident that the judge will approve the settlement. On the Department of Justice, there is no update; we remain comfortable our actions are appropriate.

Let me move on now and just hearken back to the last quarter's earnings call. On that call, I talked about our need to become more flexible and the need to work more closely with merchants. And I'm going to talk a little bit more about this.

Just a reminder, as we think about our opportunity, we believe the number one opportunity for us is to move transactions from cash onto our electronic platform. And we're confident that our assets are of the quality and the scope that we believe we would get our fair share of transactions in the process. This really is about moving transactions away from cash.

Our focus is on helping issuers remain competitive at the point-of-sale. The ecosystem is evolving, and we need to evolve as well to make sure we remain competitive at that point. So, to that end, we are evolving our rules. We also aggressively continue to invest in new capabilities that we think will benefit everyone in the payments value chain.

An important example of this was, effective February 1, we modified one of our rules to enable issuers and merchants to differentiate at the point-of-sale. This could take form in a whole series of things, but it could include things such as discounts, offers, or incentives. We like this change because it creates an environment where all four parties -- consumers, issuers, acquirers, and merchants -- now have the ability to work together to create the most robust experience for all; and all four parties will now be able to work together to use our network to help us grow Visa payment volume. And the rule we had in place did not allow that to happen.

A lot of talk about the Chase contract. And the Chase contract, in reality, is just one example of giving our issuers and acquirers an opportunity to create an environment to actually do what we just talked about, which is deliver more value to merchants and consumers. So we included a slide, but I thought I would walk through exactly just what it is.

First of all, it's a 10-year renewable partnership. As part of this, we will create a distinct custom platform within VisaNet for the processing of their transactions, which I believe they're referring to as Chase Merchant Services, or CMS. This image of Visa's authorization, clearing and settlement system will be licensed to them exclusively for their use.

The Chase transactions will still originate from a Visa-branded card, but will be processed in one of two ways. The first way would be just as happens today. The second, if the card is used at a merchant with whom Chase has a direct agreement with CMS, the transactions will be processed over the platform provided for them by us. Visa branding on the cards and at the point-of-sale remains the same. The CMS platform is customizable, but the transactions will continue to meet our safety, security, and soundness standards, and we can offer similar functionality to any other Visa client.

Visa retains ownership control of its technology and intellectual property, which is obviously critical for us. Chase, like any other issuer today, can negotiate interchange directly with merchants, whether the transaction is processed through CMS or VisaNet. Not sure that this is well-understood that issuers have the ability to do this today, but they do, in fact, have the ability to do it. And Chase and the other merchants will continue to have the ability.

The pricing levels and mechanics for our deal with Chase are consistent with what would be available to clients of Chase's size and scope for making a 10-year commitment. And obviously, important for us, we, Visa, will gain additional consumer credit and debit volume.

Looking ahead, we will continue to develop new capabilities and enhancing our business practices, because we want to help issuers, acquirers, and merchants of all sizes work more closely together to take full advantage of the opportunities emerging across the industries. And to that end, we are in active discussions with other partners on ways to use our network to help them differentiate. If clients are interested, we are willing to pursue customized arrangements that make sense for their own business needs, but we will adhere to certain core Visa principles, which is the manner in which we had approached the Chase arrangement.

Just a few of these would be -- number one is, it would have to support the Visa brand. It would have to support our safety, soundness, and security standards that we maintain. We would have to maintain control over the IP. We would have to continue to enable clients of all sizes to compete in the marketplace. And probably most importantly, whatever we do would have to add value to the Visa network. The bottom line is, we believe that what -- that our approach here, relative to Chase, and our approach with all issuers, acquirers, merchants of all sizes, are steps that are good for the electronification of payments, and good for all of our partners, and therefore, good for us.

There's a lot more we could talk about, but we do have planned for you all a complete strategic update at our Investor Day scheduled for June 6. At that meeting, we intend to cover plans for what we're doing both in the developed and the emerging economies. And we intend to focus a lot on eCommerce, mobile solutions, and what we are doing in the technology space in general. So, we'll leave a bunch of the discussions for that, since we'll have plenty of time.

And with that, I think we will stop and we'll open the call to questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I think the revenue performance, obviously, very strong. Just wondering if you could kind of talk about how you see that progressing? Obviously, it sounded like the incentive that you were talking about was lower incentives in the current period. And so, can we take away from that that you're actually seeing kind of better -- a better combination, if you will, of kind of volume coming out of debit and some of the pricing actions that you've taken?

BYRON POLLITT: So let me respond to that. First, on the -- just to be clear on the incentive piece, a large contributor to the reduction in the incentive guidance going forward, and to a certain extent, this quarter, when we signed the Chase agreement, it restructured how we price. So that, as I said in my opening remarks, gross fees are coming down along with incentives. And it's largely an offset.

So, while incentives for the balance of the year are expected to come in, in that 16% to 17% range, that in and of itself is not a significant contributor to the revenue performance for the balance of the year, because we haven't changed our overall revenue guidance. So, we are well-positioned within the low double-digit range. And what we're seeing underlying that is strong, sustained performance globally. And with two quarters now under our belt, and because of our quarter lag -- remember that we actually have visibility to three quarters of service revenue -- we have a much higher degree of certainty of how the year will flow out.

And given the strength we are seeing outside the US, good sustained recovery in our US debit business, as you pointed out, and particularly as we enter into the April, May, June quarter, this will anniversary the Dodd-Frank routing rules. Notice I said Dodd-Frank, not Durbin. And, so, while the debit business in the US has sustained a meaningful loss, particularly in the interlinked, we are pleased with the way that the business and our mitigating strategies have unfolded, and the way the business has been recovering over the past several quarters.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Quickly, I was wondering if you could address any material pricing differences between Visa Inc. and Visa Europe that would have to be overcome, should the put be exercised? And although I know it doesn't materially impact your top line, I was wondering if you could just clarify what's going on with the cash volumes in Latin America that seemed to be off dramatically. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: The pricing approach that Visa Europe pursues is one that's still very much based on a bank-owned membership arrangement. And so, it's different than what we have here in the United States or for Visa Inc. globally, outside of Europe. Having said that, Visa Europe still must price to be competitive with other competitors like MasterCard in that arena. And so, we've not done a detailed analysis of what the comparisons are, but there is a presumption that, to be competitive, you have to price competitively. And we consider Visa Europe very competitive in that part of the world.

So, don't really have a comment on that. And with regards to the cash volumes in Latin America, don't have a comment on that either. And so, that's one we'll have to take a look into and we'd be happy to get back to you through IR.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And let me just add to Byron's response on the Visa Europe question. As I said in the remarks, there is a very defined process that we would go through with Visa Europe where we look at the sustainable earnings power of the Company. And I would presume a big part of that discussion would be what the sustainable revenue contribution would be, as the model evolved. And there's plenty of time through that process to have that discussion with them, if we get to that point.

OPERATOR: Bill Carcache, Nomura.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: So between about $1.8 billion of buybacks and over $200 million in dividends, it looks like your payout ratio was about 160% this quarter or thereabouts. As we look ahead, would final approval of the merchant litigation, you know, what you expect, influence your mindset or attitude regarding capital return? You know perhaps just making you feel like you have a bit more flexibility there?

BYRON POLLITT: The answer is no. We began life as a public company committed to return excess cash to shareholders. We have done that aggressively over five-plus years. Every time there was an opportunity to, in effect, put money into the escrow on behalf of the US Bank shareholders, and do that in a way that had the effect of a share repurchase, we did that. Had that money not gone into the escrow, I'm fairly confident in saying that we would have ended up buying back, in the open market, those shares.

And just a final point. You mentioned the buyback and the dividends for the period. If you think about our commitment in the following way, I think this underscores our commitment to return. We have guided to $6 billion of free cash flow for the year. Roughly $1 billion of that $6 billion will be generated in -- offshore in ways that we would not bring back to the US and subject it to taxes, at least at any time in the near future. That leaves $5 billion. We have authorization to repurchase a little over $4 billion for the year, of which we have basically bought back, through the first six months, $3 billion of the $4 billion. And if you take four full quarters of dividend payments, you're approaching $1 billion. So if you add the share repurchases at $4 billion to the dividends of $1 billion, you get $5 billion of the $6 billion of free cash flow, in effect, returned to shareholders, and the $1 billion that isn't, is offshore.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: I was hoping you could discuss this merchant litigation that's being threatened in Europe that you guys disclosed in the 10-Q. It seems like you feel like you're being -- you should be indemnified there as well. But I was wondering if you could just flesh out a little bit? I guess, would that be part of the reason that would drive the banks to exercise the put?

And then, second, I just wanted to make sure I understood Byron's point about the Chase deal. Would the gross revenue yields then come down next quarter, given the structuring of the deal? Because if you look at kind of year-over-year change, those were up in the second quarter. Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: You want to answer the second one first, Byron?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, let me do the second one first. Everything else being equal, yes. The gross revenue yields would come down, isolated to that one factor in Chase. Because you still have the transactions, but the way that they are being charged, gross equals net, no incentives. And so, incentives would go down, gross yield would go down.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And on the first point, let me take a shot at that for a second. So, the EC is investing -- is investigating several different things, one of which is intra-European credit interchange. So, this is where there is a card issued within Europe and it's used inside of Europe. That affects Visa Europe. It does not affect us, per se. And they're also investigating inter-interchange, which is when it is a card issued outside of Europe and it's used inside of Europe.

We obviously don't know, since we're in discussions with them, where it winds up. We have nothing to report on exactly the specifics of what they're thinking. And relative to how it impacts their view of the put, I think, honestly, that is a -- that's a question for them, whether it's for Visa Europe or for the banks themselves. I would say what we think about is, what it does to our thinking about Visa Europe. And in the different scenarios that I spoke about, to the extent that we have to go through a valuation process to understand what the sustainable earnings of Visa Europe would be, that whatever the conclusion of this inquiry would be would obviously help us point us towards what the affect of this could certainly be. And if it's something outside of the put, we would obviously have to take it into account as well. But when it's concluded, we'll know the specifics, and we'll be in a position to understand the impacts.

OPERATOR: Jason Kupferberg, Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Just a clarification and a question. The clarification just in terms of other future deals like the Chase deal. Are you guys kind of waiting for inbound interest in terms of other issuers approaching you? Or are you actually proactively marketing as two other big issuers? And then, just as my question, also on the topic of the 10-Q, I saw some language in there around CFPB, taking a look at currency conversion fees on cross-border transactions -- just any comments you may have on that. Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Okay. So on the first question, we're not the type of organization that waits for our clients to call us. I mean, in all seriousness, we are -- we talk with our clients literally day in and day out. So, when this was announced, there are certainly extensive conversations that have gone on and continue to go on with clients of all sizes. And even before the announcement, the conversations that we've had were very consistent with the messaging that I laid out on the last call, which is that we want to be more flexible. We want to evolve our rules, and we want to focus much more on working with merchants.

So, we are actively involved in talking to institutions of all sizes. I would describe them as very, very different types of conversations, with people having different capabilities and different desires. And when I went through my introductory remarks, I kind of laid out what some of the principles are for us to follow. But if we can do things with them that would help them grow their business and help us grow payment volume, that's something we're very excited to do.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me take the -- yes, let me take the question on the CFPB. As you might imagine, we have quite a bit of experience globally working with regulators. And it's not uncommon for them to reach out in a very informational way to try and understand how certain practices unfold within our ecosystem. And that is very much the nature of this dialogue with the CFPB.

They have reached out and asked us if we would help them -- help educate them on how the currency trading ecosystem works as it relates to credit and debit cards. And so, myself along with a number of my colleagues, have met with them personally. It was a very straightforward educational type discussion, focused on the mechanics of how currency conversion works. I would describe the working relationship as very cordial, very sound. I would say at the same time that our engagement is ongoing. And we will, of course, give me keep you all informed as this dialogue unfolds.

OPERATOR: James Friedman, Susquehanna.

JAMES FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP: Thank you for taking my question. Charlie, since it's -- the spring is the season for this, I was wondering how you would characterize the general tone for new fees at this point? Should we expect more or less revenue growth coming from new fees this year than in prior years?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I didn't realize that spring was the period of time for new fees. You know, I think I'll leave it at the revenue guidance overall that Byron gave. I think that's -- I mean, that's -- for us to talk about in another level of detail of what we are forecasting for revenues would go beyond what is our practice, and not something that we would want to get into.

BYRON POLLITT: I would just add to that. When we gave the original guidance that Charlie referred to, at the beginning of the fiscal year, we said that it was -- that we would deliver our revenue the old-fashioned way, through volume increases, and that there would not be a material reliance on any sort of price -- yes, pricing overall within the business plan for the year.

OPERATOR: Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: So, hey, a two-part question on the Chase VisaNet deal. Could you just give us a sense of the reaction you're getting from other banks in the wake of that deal? And also maybe the acquirer community, how they're reacting. And if you see any major constraints on the ability of other particularly large banks to pursue a similar deal, Chase VisaNet type deal.

And then, Byron, maybe on the numbers, can you give us a sense on whether you expect to be revenue-positive on the Chase deal over the next year, after the -- clearly, there is some discounting that's going on, on that contract. Will the volume gains from MasterCard at Chase offset the impact of the pricing discounts? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me start with the -- so why don't we start with the numbers? So the answer to the question -- first part of the question was, do we expect to be volume-accretive with the signing of this contract going into the (multiple speakers) -- excuse me, revenue-accretive -- going into the next year. The question is absolutely yes, that when we factor in all the elements of the deal, including those you referenced, we expect to have positive revenue growth with the Chase relationship in the coming year.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And relative to the reaction of -- from banks and acquirers to Chase, I mean, I would honestly -- I guess I would say it was mixed initially, and quite candidly, was probably confusing, because there were not a lot of facts. Because there were terms disclosed at the point of a letter of intent, not a final contract, which is what we have signed now. So we've been able to have much more in-depth conversations about what it is, similar to what we've talked about here. And I think the conversations very much have moved to, what is it? It's confusing. What does it mean? And this is both on the bank side and the acquirer side, to what will -- what can Visa do to help them customize and differentiate their experience?

So we are having that discussion again from small institutions to much bigger institutions and acquirers alike. And as I said, I think the overriding concept here is, the world is changing around us. And there are lots of people that we compete with, and people who want to compete with us, that have strategies around working with merchants at point-of-sale. And if we don't figure out how to evolve our model to encourage issuers and acquirers to do that, then we'd be leaving great opportunity on the table. And so, we do have to be flexible in how we do it, as long as we don't think that it violates any of the principles that I spoke about before. And we feel very good that what we're doing actually does that.

OPERATOR: Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Good results. I'll ask a couple of modeling nerd questions. Data processing fee, is that yield or revenue per trend? That jumped up quite a bit. The biggest we've seen in a long time. What's driving that? And I guess going forward, that will be impacted to some degree by the Chase deal?

Then secondly, the international transaction fee line looked like the revenue growth created premiums across border volume for the first time in over a couple of quarters. What's driving that as well? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me respond. So, on the debit -- data processing yield, as you all remember, about a year ago, as part of our Dodd-Frank debit mitigating strategy, we restructured our pricing. We introduced a lower variable transaction fee. We introduced, for the first time, a fixed acquirer network fee.

When we first introduced those in the way that we bill and record revenue, we had to do that to a certain degree with some estimates, and -- since it was a new pricing structure. And as we conclude the March quarter, we pretty much got a year of this under our belt. And so, we're now in a position where we can start to true up some of those estimates. And what you saw in the data processing yield line was some true-up there and a few credits.

Going forward, I would say that the data processing yield is more likely to approximate what you saw in Q1 as opposed to Q2. Still very solid. But I think that's -- from a nerdy modeling standpoint, I think that's probably the guidance you were looking for.

With regards to international, as we have talked about this particular line on several occasions before, there is always some degree of variability between volume and reported revenue. Part of it is revenue mix. Part of it is the amount of volatility we see in the currency markets. And in periods where there is a higher degree of volatility, often associated with saber rattling or conflicting claims on islands in the China Sea, anything issues around Cyprus, anything that royals the currency markets and creates more volatility, creates a bit more -- as an impact on the revenue that we record.

And so, that was the case with international this past quarter. We had a step-up in currency volatility, relative to what we've seen historically. And then we also had a little bit of a tailwind with regards to this specific currencies that -- and their weighting during the quarter. Some currencies just naturally yield more of a return across our fee-base than others. So that's the reason.

OPERATOR: Bob Napoli, William Blair.

BOB NAPOLI, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPAANALYSTNY: Just two quick ones. What would be the strategy on funding the -- if -- the put, if it were to be executed? And then secondly, just I'd like a little update on CyberSource. It's been growing 25% for the last couple of years. Doesn't seem to be slowing. And I just wondered if the revenue is growing in line with that? And what the operating profit margin is on that CyberSource business? And any update on the strategy would be helpful.

BYRON POLLITT: So, let me take that. So, in the event that we needed to consider funding for Visa Europe, let me just give you the following perspective.

We, currently, at the end of this quarter, we have roughly $2.2 billion of cash that is in offshore accounts, not immediately required for working capital. That $2.2 billion would be available for use in a Visa Europe put situation. Once the put -- if and when the put is exercised, we have 285 days to negotiate out and fund the transaction. During that period, we would generate in the normal course of business, at least $3 billion of free cash flow.

So, before we ever get to debt, if any were to be required, recognizing we have no debt, we've got $5 billion of cash readily available to deploy. And that's not to say that we would use all that cash, because this might -- again, if the put were to be exercised, this might be a good opportunity to actually put some debt on the balance sheet, and lower our weighted average cost of capital.

The second question was CyberSource. CyberSource was acquired, as you might remember, because it moved us closer to the merchant checkout page with regards to Internet transactions. The fastest-growing channel we have today is eCommerce, and CyberSource gives us an additional value-add in the transaction, and a way of directly connecting through the acquirer to our network, in a way that is very synergistic with the rest of our business.

When we acquired CyberSource, it was primarily a US business. The opportunity for us was outside the United States. And so, we have invested aggressively in CyberSource to accelerate the expansion of that business outside the United States, and as a result, have been successful in sustaining its transaction growth rate at 20-plus-percent ever since we acquired the business. And I can tell you that that transaction growth rate is slightly above the pro forma projections that we presented to our Board when we justified the purchase price.

So we couldn't be more pleased with the role CyberSource is now playing in the Visa Inc. global strategy, as we zero in on capitalizing on the Internet growth opportunity, which is absolutely global in its scope.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And I'll just add, as we -- all of our work that we've got going on with merchants, as I talked about, CyberSource and its capabilities are a tremendous advantage for us in those conversations.

OPERATOR: Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Not to beat a dead horse, but I guess I'll keep jumping on this Chase merchant services contract. Thinking through the reaction, I guess, mostly as it relates to kind of the independent or standalone merchant acquirers versus the bank-owned merchant acquirers, how exactly would you distinguish the benefits to each one of these guys, especially if they don't actually issue their own cards?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Well, again, I think -- I guess the way we think about it is, what we are willing -- the importance of what we did with Chase is not specifically about the Chase structure. It's about what the intent we're trying to get at, which is to put issuers and acquirers together to work directly with merchants.

So, to the extent that a bank owns an acquirer, it obviously allows you to have that conversation under one roof. To the extent you have issuers who don't control their own acquirers, hopefully, now they're thinking about and are, in fact, having conversations with acquirers, about the types of things that they could do if they worked more closely together.

You know the reality is, I think if you go around and talk to most issuers, they would probably say that there wasn't a lot of conversation that went on between the issuing and acquiring side, partially because of our rules that stood in the way of them working together to do something positive for the merchant. And so, now that we've given them the ability to do that, I don't -- it shouldn't -- you don't have to own your own acquirer in order to take advantage of the changes that we've made. And I think, quite frankly, we'll see how it evolves.

I think going back to Rod's question earlier, I mean, there are some people that look at this and say, okay, got it, understand it, but I don't believe it. I think it's too hard. I don't think it's going to be successful. I don't intend to change anything. And we'll wait and see. And if we get to a point of, hey, there's something there, then we've got capabilities and we'll go forward with that.

There are others that are more interested in thinking through how to take advantage of some of the things that we are willing to do. And I think, honestly, this will evolve over the next -- it will take, I'm going to say, a couple of years. It's not the type of thing that will be -- it will be very, very short. You know, it's -- they involve not just conversations between issuers and acquirers, but you have to have conversations with the merchants. They have to believe that there is a real value proposition there. They've got to do some things different potentially in their stores with their customers. And that's not always the most obvious and easy conversation. But again, we think it's the right conversation to have but it's a thesis that has to be proved.

OPERATOR: Darrin Peller, Barclays.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Listen, just first to clarify on the Chase deal timing again, and then a quick question on the stored wallet fees. So, first on Chase, did the deal economics actually show up at all in the quarter that was just reported, in terms of the incentives and the -- because you came in at 16% as a percentage of gross revenue, so it seems a little lower than 18%-plus.

And then just a question on the store wallet fee that MasterCard has announced. It seems like Visa's still not committed to doing that, as far as at least we've seen. Can you just give us some idea and thought around that fee? And really your interaction with, for instance, PayPal and some of the eCommerce players that that could affect?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes. I'll tell him you do the first one.

BYRON POLLITT: Okay, let me take the first one. So, just to clarify the question, because the Chase deal was signed in April actually, it did not have any impact to the quarter just it has a retroactive effect a little bit earlier, but that is all contemplated in the guidance that we gave for the balance of the year.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And on the staged wallet question, so, first of all, just on the actual stages wallet fee that MasterCard implemented, that's not something that we are currently contemplating, but we are actively thinking through what has changed in the ecosystem and how we have to react to that. Our relationship with PayPal and people like them has evolved. It's complicated. They specifically are a very important customer of ours, but they have their own ambitions. And we're mindful, I think, first and foremost, of the impact that they have both positively and negatively potentially on our issuers. Because that ultimately will be what determines our success. And I think we are actively thinking about the right way to restructure the ecosystem in a way that works for everyone. And we've got nothing to announce now, but we will at some point.

OPERATOR: David Togut, Evercore Partners.

DAVID TOGUT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: What is Visa's strategy to gain market share in the corporate card market versus MasterCard?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Byron, do you want to talk about those changes in the mid-year or the past year?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes. So, in the commercial side, this -- a lot of success in this marketplace is dependent on the sophistication of the platforms that you bring to bear to service corporate clients. It's a very information-reporting intensive business. And we have made significant investments over the last several years in a platform we refer to as IntelliLink. We believe what we have today is a state-of-the-art, and one that has been -- compared to where we were five years ago, has been a game-changer for us, in terms of being much more successful in capturing commercial business. And it's largely driven by the investments in the sophistication of reporting multi-currency, multi-country. And that's really the lead card we play.

OPERATOR: Glenn Fodor, Autonomous Research.

GLENN FODOR, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks for taking my question. Just turning to US credit, clearly, you had a great run recently. You've been posting above market growth. What's important for us is to get a sense of how much longer this can continue. So in that vein, is it possible just roughly to parse your growth into maybe three buckets -- the sources of three buckets? Like just having faster-growing clients because of client-specific reasons; clients that are growing Visa volume faster because of the things you are doing with them?

And then finally, just share gains overall. And can you roughly bucket that for us? And then maybe sum it up with some texture of how much pent-up above-market growth do you have in the backlog in the pipeline here? Give us confidence that this can continue for several more quarters or even beyond that.

CHARLIE SCHARF: I guess I'll just start, Byron, and then you can chime in. I mean, it's -- obviously, it's very hard right now to put things into the buckets that numerically the way you spoke about. But I think when you look at our issuing base, we've certainly benefited from the partnerships that we have with the faster-growing issuers out there. And you can say that that's luck on our part historically, or it's -- that Visa targeted the right population of customers. And I think it stands for itself, things don't happen by chance. And we do have a very fast-growing set of customers that we certainly benefit from.

And the same thing is true relative to the co-brands that we have. You know, the co-brands can -- just like anything else, not all co-brands are equal. And we think we've got the premier client base out there, and we've been clearly very big beneficiaries of that and would expect that to continue.

BYRON POLLITT: I would just add one other component to this. The -- in addition to the quality and the growth delivered by the issuer, that's also impacted by the quality of the cardholder portfolio as measured by affluent income levels. And we are very well-positioned in the affluent portfolios. And if you think about it, what has driven the credit card payment volume growth over the -- certainly over the past two years, has been predominantly affluent. And so being well-positioned as the economy recovers, this is an area where we are well-positioned to sustain this kind of growth. It should be less volatile in that sense. And so, we certainly feel it has strong legs; relative to the delta, that's a much harder one to frame.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane, Deutsche Bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi guys, just a couple of questions. I guess first on the EC inquiry, does that have any potential impact on Visa's fees? Or are we talking about Visa Europe fees? And then, on the Chase Visa deal, I guess two questions. One, are we talking about a material amount of volume that you guys expect, the consumer credit and debit? I'm just trying to get a sense if that's new cards, just for new business? Or will that be some of the existing business?

And then finally, on the -- I've heard you say, Charlie, before that the Chase could have done this on those transactions before. So then the question comes out, then why are they using Visa at all? And is Visa getting any money at all for allowing on those transactions? Thanks so much.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. That was -- let's start there. What we said they could do historically was enter into pricing arrangements directly with merchants relative to interchange. And again, anyone can do that today, and that's not specific to on-us transactions. So I'm not sure then the rest of the question flows, so if we didn't answer it, maybe come back and ask us the question again. But they and everyone else have the ability to go negotiate interchange, and they've got the ability to do that in this agreement in a different format and a different structure.

On the size of the Chase commitment, again, I think the best way to characterize that is what Byron said -- which is, net-net, all in all, we think that we're still in the position to grow revenues. And how we get there and whatnot is not something that I think is appropriate for us to talk about. And back on the first piece, on the EC inquiry, it is on interchange. And so that would be the direct impact of what it is they're looking at today.

JACK CARSKY: At this point, we have time for one more question, operator.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Moshe Katri of Cowen and Company. Your line is open.

JACK CARSKY: Moshe? Moshe?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Moshe, you there?

OPERATOR: He disconnected. We can go on to a next question if you wish.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Okay. Someone hit the lottery.

OPERATOR: John Williams of UBS, your line is open.

JOHN WILLIAMS, ANALYST, UBS: Hey, you snuck me in. Thank you, guys. Thanks for taking my question.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thank Moshe. (laughter)

JOHN WILLIAMS: I will. So I had a follow-up. I hate to beat the dead horse on Chase merchant services, and forgive the basic nature of my question, but -- so I think it's reasonable to say JPMorgan's not paying you guys very much in the way of assessment fees. And so as you considered doing this deal, what was lacking in the relationship that made something of this magnitude necessary? I mean, obviously, you're locking up a large customer for a while. But how does Visa actually benefit in an incremental way? Because it sounds like, on the one hand, you might get more transactions, but on the other hand, the on-us transactions will stay on us. So, if you could give a little more color on how you guys specifically benefit in an incremental way, that would be helpful. Thank you.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes. I mean, I'll give you our point of view. But again, why -- some of those questions I think are important for them. For -- so, specifically, from our point of view, we don't believe that this structure was necessary to accomplish what the end goal is. The structure is something that we've worked on together, because it's something that was important to them. But that's -- which is why we believe that this doesn't -- this structure isn't specific to them; that we could go accomplish the same thing by working with issuers and acquirers separately without this kind of structural transaction that occurred.

You know, the benefit in this, if we are successful at this, is really related to the rule change that we made, which encourages and allows the issuers and acquirers to go talk to merchants directly, and to ask the question, what can we do for you? Or to propose an idea of we can do the following thing for you to help you drive more sales and drive more volume into your stores. And, in return for that, presumably, there will be additional transactions that get directed to the Visa cards. Again, this structure, we don't believe is necessary to do that, but it certainly allows that to happen and that's what was important to us.

BYRON POLLITT: And I would just add, on the economics, John, that this business has always been built on an economic business model that says the larger the client, the larger the portfolio, the better pricing you get. And this was one of our largest clients, one of the largest portfolios. We had the opportunity to enter into a 10-year arrangement that has a set of economics that are consistent with how we have been doing multi-year contracts with other clients over the years, including Chase.

And given the size of this portfolio and where we expect it to be over the next five and 10 years, is there margin compression? Yes. But that margin compression is consistent, in the same ZIP code as what we would normally have expected to have put on the table, given the kind of -- given the size of the portfolio and the kind of growth that we are expecting this partnership to produce. So, from that standpoint, we are very comfortable with the economics of this deal.

JACK CARSKY: And with that, we want to thank you all for joining us once again. And just to reiterate what Charlie said earlier, we are hosting an Investor Day on June 6th here in San Francisco. Formal invites have been sent out. Many people have responded. If you haven't and intend to do so, please do. And if you were inadvertently left off that list, let Vic or I know, and we'll make sure you get the formal invite. And any other follow-up questions, also to me or Vic. And thanks again.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation on the conference call today. At this time, all parties may disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130508e951008st
  


 HD
 Q1  2013  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,485 words
   PD
6 February 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal Q1 2013 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thanks, Brad. Good afternoon and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal first-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. With us today are Charlie Scharf, Visa's Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the Internet, and can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. And, as result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning those factors is available in the Company's filings with the SEC, which can be accessed through the SEC's website in the Investor Relations section of the Visa website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed in this call, related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal first-quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the IR section of our website.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF, CEO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Jack. Very well said. I just want to start by letting everyone know how excited I am to be part of Visa. After 10 years as some combination of an issue or a member of the Board, it's great to be part of a team that I've known for 10 years or so. And especially Byron and his team -- who I'm going to embarrass him a little bit -- is even more impressive from inside the Company than he was from outside the Company, as well as the team.

I do feel lucky to be part of what clearly is a growth company and a growth industry. These times are exciting. We've got some great competition out there, both from traditional players and from new players; but as I'm going to talk a little bit later in the call, we love our position.

Well, first, we're going to go through the quarter, which, as you saw, was very, very strong. And then even more importantly, I think once we go beyond that, I'm going to talk a little bit more about our continued strong investment in the future of the Company. And it's our confidence in that you can see it's exhibited by the additional share repurchase authorization that's in today's announcement.

So, Byron will walk through the quarter, and then I'll come back and give you some more detailed thoughts. And we'll leave plenty of time for Q&A at the end.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Charlie. As is my practice, I'll begin with some observations and call-outs. First, Visa's 12% net revenue growth in the fiscal first quarter was once again broad-based, as we continue to see strong credit and debit growth in the US and rest-of-world, as well as a return to positive growth in our worldwide debit business.

Second, client incentives for the quarter as a percentage of gross revenue were 16.3% and below our full-year guidance. This was a result of both lower-than-expected deal activity in the quarter and timing issues associated with incentives to certain clients. We expect these payments to be realized in the coming quarters.

Third, aggregate US debit payment volume posted a negative 4% growth rate in the fiscal first quarter of 2013 versus a negative 6% in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2012. Of note, Q1 Interlink payment volume growth was off 44% versus 48% in the September ending quarter.

Fourth, Visa's effective tax rate of 28.2% was positively impacted by a tax benefit recognized during the quarter, as a result of new guidance issued by the State of California regarding apportionment rules. As a result, we booked a credit of $76 million after-tax, representing about $0.11 of EPS, which resulted in a significantly reduced tax rate for the quarter. This catch-up benefit is consistent with our full-year tax and EPS guidance.

Fifth, in wake of receiving preliminary court approval of the merchant litigation settlement agreement in December, we made a $4 billion cash payment from Visa's litigation escrow account to the class plaintiffs settlement funding. This was in addition to $350 million paid out in October to the individual merchants. The net result of these payments will be to increase our free cash flow by about $1.6 billion this year, given our ability to deduct these payments from our US tax return.

Lastly, we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders with a new $1.75 billion share repurchase program. To put this in perspective, during the quarter, we spent $1.3 billion to repurchase 9 million shares at an average price of about $145. At the end of fiscal Q1, we had $1.1 billion of remaining authorization to which we added the $1.75 billion, bringing our total open-to-buy to just under $3 billion.

Our priorities for the use of this cash remain the same. First, reinvesting in the business; second, appropriate acquisitions; and third, distribution to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

Now let's turn to the numbers. As is our practice, I will cover our global payment volume and process transaction trends for the fiscal first quarter, followed by our results through January 28th. I'll then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal first-quarter, and conclude with our guidance outlook for fiscal 2013.

Global payment volume growth for the December quarter in constant dollars was 9%, up from the September quarter's 6%. More recently, in the US, through January 28th, payment volume growth was 5%, compared with 3% in the December ending quarter. Both US credit and debit experienced improved growth rates.

Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 11% constant dollar growth rate in the December quarter, which compares to a 10% rate in the September quarter. The US grew 9%; rest-of-world, 11%. We continue to see very strong results from our Asia-Pacific and SEMEA regions. Through January 28th, cross-border volume on a constant dollar basis grew 12%, with a US growth rate of 10%, rest-of-world at 12%.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled 14.2 billion in the fiscal first quarter, a 4% increase over the prior-year period. A 4% decline in US debit transactions was offset by a positive 21% growth in debit and credit in the rest-of-world. Note that as we begin to lap the impact of changes in US debit regulations, we expect our US debit metrics to show improved results.

Consistent with that dynamic, through January 28th, process transaction growth was a positive 6%, driven by an improving trajectory in US process transaction growth. Separately, CyberSource reported 1.6 billion transactions for the period, a 28% increase over the prior period.

Now let's turn to the income statement. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $2.8 billion, a 12% increase year-over-year, driven by solid growth in global payment volumes, data processing revenues, international revenues, and as mentioned earlier, lower than anticipated client incentives. After hedges, there was no meaningful foreign exchange impact on that revenue in the quarter.

Moving to the individual revenue line items. Service revenue was $1.3 billion, up 13% over the prior-year period. Revenue growth exceeded constant dollar payment volume growth at 6%, largely due to the decline in Interlink, a debit product that does not generate service revenues.

Data processing revenue was $1.1 billion, up 17% over the prior-year's quarter, based on solid growth rates in Visa processed transactions outside the US, strong CyberSource transaction growth, as well as strategic pricing actions taken last year, related to restructuring of our pricing in the US debit market.

International transaction revenue was up 8% to $805 million, reflecting solid strength in cross-border volumes. As I highlighted earlier, client incentives for the quarter came in at 16.3% lower than we had anticipated on a percentage basis, due to the timing of deals and certain incentive payments. In future quarters, we anticipate a step-up in incentive levels, as a percentage of gross revenue consistent with our full-year guidance expectations of 18% to 18.5%.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $1 billion, up 13% from the prior year. This was primarily due to higher personnel and professional fees associated with investments in our growth strategies. Marketing expenses were up a modest 2% from the prior year, as the first half of the year tends to be our quietest. Spend will ramp up over the year in line with our guidance of under $1 billion for fiscal 2013.

Operating margin for the quarter was 63%. While slightly ahead of our full-year guidance of about 60%, this margin level is consistent with how we planned for the year. As noted earlier, our effective tax rate for Q1 was 28.2%. The lower rate for the quarter was primarily due to a favorable clarification in the apportionment rules for the State of California. The resulting benefit was related to prior periods. That said, the Q1 tax rate is fully consistent with our full-year guidance of 30% to 32%.

Finally, capital expenditures were $100 million in the quarter, in line with our full-year expectations. The adjusted weighted average number of fully diluted shares for the fiscal first quarter totaled 669 million. Other than the change in free cash flow guidance to about $6 billion, there are no other changes to our fiscal guidance.

And with that, I would like to turn the call back over to Charlie.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thanks a lot, Byron. I thought maybe what I would do, being new to the Company, is start by just talking about my view of the Company, the way I think about it, and then move into priorities. And I guess I'd frame my thoughts on the Company by starting off with the fact that having been here for three months, and been around the world spending time with people here, I am more bullish today about the opportunities that we have than the day I joined. And I think that's true of both the short-term and the long-term.

Let me just go through some reasons why. First of all, as you all know, the resiliency of the business model really is something pretty special. Everyone is aware of the global economic environment, the conditions that we've been working through. The important thing for us is that we continue to have the ability to deliver through the economic cycle.

Second of all -- and I wouldn't underestimate this issue, which is that there's a clear desire and a need for our product, both socially and economically. And when you travel around the world, it comes through loud and clear. Our products help economies grow, and they help people of all wealth levels, as well as merchants and governments of all sizes. And, again, especially once you leave the United States, as you talk to the governments, as you talk to merchants, that is the message that we get loud and clear.

And then we also can't forget about this huge number of 2.5 billion people across the world that don't have access to the formal financial system today. And our products that we offer can bring them into it. It really is something, over time, that will improve their lives. It will improve the economies in the countries that they live in and help advance those countries. And obviously, as you've seen from things like Rwanda and some other stuff we'll talk about, there's great government interest in doing that.

Third, there's a strong secular trend. You know, that's clear. This continued growth and electronification of payments, which we've been living through, is going to continue. Importantly, the way we think about it here, first and foremost, we compete with cash and checks. After that, we compete with others in the marketplace.

But there is so much cash and check across the globe, it is still somewhat astonishing. And even more astonishing, the pie is getting bigger. There's more cash today than there was five years ago. And so this is just, obviously, a great opportunity for us in the market that we play in.

Fourth, we have an enviable competitive position. You all know the share numbers, but it's not just share. It's the relationships that we have across the globe. It's the fact that we're a trusted partner in the payments industry -- because of both what our brand is, but also what we've actually delivered over a long period of time here. And, again, when you go outside of the United States, the power of the brand just -- it's something that people talk about over and over again.

And those opportunities outside of the United States are exciting. That's the fifth reason that I'd put in the bullish category, because we've got huge opportunity in both developed and less developed countries outside the United States. And I'll talk a little more of that in a second.

The quality of the people at Visa across the globe is terrific. This Company has been built by the people that have been here. And it's great to be able to work even more closely with them.

And then the last thing I'll just talk about here is just our network, for a second. I'm not sure we spend enough time talking about it, but it is -- it's obviously the core of who we are. But we have one global network. And just the perspective of coming from outside the Company, very few global companies out there can say that they have one network across the globe. It's efficient; it's controlled; it's a great platform. And to the extent we want to do things and scale them across the world, we can do it in a way that a lot of other industries would really struggle to do.

The network's been built over decades. We all know that it provides great global acceptance, clearing authorization and settlement, but it's proven to be safe and secure. It's battle-tested through the years, is the way I think about it. And we continue to invest aggressively, because the world of cyber criminals is growing, not shrinking. And I'd rather have our network than anyone else's at this point, as we continue to build on that security. And this becomes a competitive advantage over time.

But beyond just the core capabilities of our network, the real differentiation for us is how we use it for our participants. And I think about our participants as issuers, acquirers, cardholders and merchants in this category. We have been and will continue to drive more functionality to benefit our customers. That's risk management; it's marketing; it's offers; it's things like that. And we'll continue to extend access to the network. And that's a big part of what our mobile activities are. And as long as we continue to do that, our network is far from a commodity.

So moving to priorities for a second, I think it's totally appropriate to be clear that my first priority is to make sure that we continue the business momentum here. You know, the quarter speaks for itself. The past few quarters -- not few -- the past quarters over extended period of time here say an awful lot about the momentum that this Company has. I could go through a long list of wins right now in the quarter; I'm not going to do that. I'm not sure we'd all get benefit from that. What I'd rather do is just focus on some examples of some interesting things that we're doing across the globe.

First example is Saral Money. It's a partnership with five leading clients -- the Delhi State Government and the Indian National Identity System. It links the national ID number with biometric information to provide instant authentication, and complete a paperless process to open a bank account and issue a Visa debit or prepaid card instantly. It's terrific. It's in-market and something we're very excited about.

We also announced a strategic agreement with QIWI. QIWI is Russia's leading payment services provider. They provide digital wallet. It's more than 9 million active Russian customers who use them at more than 100,000 cash kiosks. What our agreement really is all about is transitioning the wallet from a single-bank model to a digital wallet with stored value account, based upon Visa prepaid cards that can be issued by any Visa client bank. It will be a great product to have alongside our own product.

And then the country of Myanmar. We're bringing electronic payments to the country. We enabled the first credit card payment through a Visa branded wireless point-of-sale terminal. And now credit, debit and prepaid cards are able to be used in selected merchants.

Another great example of the momentum that we have is V.me -- our electronic wallet. I know you've heard about it, but it's actually -- it's real. It's live. It's in the market. At the end of 2012, we had 31 merchant sites live. We have an additional 132 signed up through yesterday, I believe, and we have 63 issuers who signed up to participate. Those issuers represent 55 million Visa cards; include, so far, 12 of the top 25 US banks, 51 US regional banks. And PNC and Bank of America have integrated V.me into their online banking websites.

So, I could go on about more things, but I thought I'd just turn now to some of the strategic priorities as I see them. First and probably foremost, is the continue to extend the electronification of payments. It's obvious, but the pie is so big here, the more we do, it's good for all. For us to be able to do that, we are going to have to figure out how to be more flexible. This organization's got great history. It's had great results. But if you go around and talk to issuers, acquirer merchants, we can be a little too rules-oriented. And so we've got to figure out how we become less focused on rules, while preserving what's important to keep the integrity of our network in place.

By doing things like that, we can work with our customers to create more customized solutions and support issuers of all sizes. Not a small opportunity for us. It's, I think, a big opportunity for us to partner more closely with our customers.

Next, I would put the second-biggest strategic priority -- technology and innovation more generally. Again, my perspective here, having participated with the Company for a period of time, is just great progress. Three years ago, when I was still on the Board, there was very, very little going on here relative to using these new technologies to benefit us. It was still at the tail end of taking the Company public, merging the entities and whatnot. And over the past three years, the progress has been really terrific.

I talked about V.me. Again, it's not an idea; it's in the market today. The work on mobile here continues, both organically and with the acquisition of Fundamo. It's a critical access point to our network. And continued investment in that is absolutely critical for us.

As we think about these capabilities and thinking about things that we do, our focus is on extending the core network, and access and capabilities of that network. We love the business we're in. We're in a great business. That's the core of who we are. It's the network; it's processing. And the things that we're going to focus on will continue to be those things that support those core assets.

We're also going to continue to be completely focused on supporting our customers. And those are -- it's the issuers and the acquirers, and ultimately, the cardholders and the merchants, but it's through those -- through our customers. We have no intention of disintermediating them. It's -- they're too important for us and too much of an opportunity.

And as we think about these technology investments and whatnot, the way I like to think about it is, the more we work with our customers on these things -- we tailor our investments, both with them and for them as we talk to them -- we move to more of a partnership orientation as opposed to a vendor relationship.

People -- when you go and you talk to people about our business, you can think about it two different ways. You can think about it as if -- which we do know, there are other people that do what we do with that core asset that we have. And one way to approach that from the outside is to look at it and say, who's the cheapest price out there?

But in anything, no matter what you do in life, there's always a cheaper price out there. And our job is to make sure that we provide more value. And whether it's through the relationship building, whether it's through helping people marketing, whether it's using their data, using their information, building things like V.me, building mobile -- all those things that we do create more value. And so that people look at us much more of a partner than a vendor over time.

Third priority, international growth. And not something new. You've heard about this quite a bit. We've got an awful lot going on. And I just also always think it's important to say, we love the United States. We love our position in the United States. We've got some really neat stuff going on here. So it's not to say otherwise, but it's hard not to look at what the opportunity is outside the US and say it's just large.

It's all across the world. Here, too, it's both short-term and long-term. It's large developed markets where there are big cash-based economies like Japan. And they're emerging markets all over the world with very little acceptance, as I've referred to earlier.

We're investing aggressively here. We're opening new offices and adding people in-country. In 2012, we opened six new offices, 17 expansions and more to come this year. We're growing acceptance. We're expanding CyberSource globally. We are working closely with governments. It's a huge part of the effort to partner with governments to push electronification of payments. And country by country, we've got very, very specific and very different strategies.

Some parts of the world, NFC through payWave is extremely important -- places like Canada and Australia. And the products we have are extremely helpful to us in building our business there. Other places, it's traditional debit, credit and prepaid. And other places, we know the importance of mobile. So we're going to continue to invest here and take advantage of the large opportunity that we all know exists.

The next priority, number four, I would talk about merchant relationships. This is one where we provide great value for merchants. I absolutely believe that. And you've got examples like Square type technology, and pricing on those products out there, which just shows you that people, small merchants are willing to pay to electronify their world. Because they know how difficult and how expensive cash is.

Having said that, we also have to acknowledge that it's on us, along with our issuers and acquirers that we do business with, to prove it to merchants day in and day out. Some believe it. I mean, I've had conversations with plenty of merchants that think we do a great job partnering with them. But obviously, there are an awful lot, which are very vocal, that don't believe that here in the United States. And, again, that's on us to figure out how to change the nature of that relationship.

So we need to do a whole lot more. It starts with engaging them very differently. I'm not talking about the courts and through D.C.; I'm talking about directly. We need to balance their issues with others in our value chain. It's just an extremely important concept that needs to permeate the way we think about our business.

And most importantly, it's up to us to prove to them that we can actually help them grow. We talk about this internally, that Visa cardholders are the largest single source of potential spend in the world. And to the extent that we can work with merchants, again, through our issuers and acquirers, and show them how we can add value to them in building their businesses, that's what we've got to do to change the nature of that relationship. And so we will be doing a lot more of that.

Employees, I'd be remiss if I didn't talk about employees as a priority, because this is a business based upon the quality of the people that we have. We've got a great group of people here across the globe who I've gotten to know. And it's my job to continue to create the most attractive environment, so we get the best, the smartest, the most vibrant thinking in this Company.

Sixth, capital allocation. And if you're sitting on the edge of your seat for nothing -- for something new, you're not going to get it. The Company, historically, and I, I'd say first of all, have great respect for the responsibility. We understand what it means and we understand what shareholders want. And as Byron has said in the past, our jobs are to put capital to use intelligently or return it to you. And that's been a consistent theme since the IPO.

Intelligently means investing it in our core assets organically or through acquisitions, like you've seen us do. But, obviously, if we don't see those opportunities, then we're going to return it to you through dividends and buybacks. We're going to always prioritize what we're going to do based upon the returns for the shareholder. And our goal is to reward shareholders that continue to own the stock. So, again, it's something that there's a -- hopefully, a whole lot of consistency with my thinking and what the thinking has been here.

And then the last priority I'll end with is the continuing open dialogue that Visa has had with the investor community. I certainly look forward to getting to know all of you. I know some of you. I look forward to getting to know many more of you, sharing my thoughts, our thoughts in more detail. And to that end, just so you know, we are working on planning of an Investor Day, which we're going to firm up the timing. And Jack will be back to you with the specifics relatively quickly on that.

So before we open for Q&A, let me just stop by saying a couple of things here. I hope you get the sense, as I talk about how I feel about the opportunity here, that the runway for growth is long and it's deep. As we think about what we do here, we've got to balance the short and long-term. And what that means is, there is no long-term without a short-term, so we know we must deliver.

But when people hear -- people like to ask the generic question of how you define success five years from now. To me, it's really all about -- we feel great about the opportunity for the next five years, but success is going to be that we're sitting here five years from now, and we feel as good about the forward-looking growth as we do today. And that's -- if that doesn't happen, shame on us, because we've got the assets and we've got the business to do that. And we are confident that we will do it.

So, with that, I will stop. And Byron and I are here to answer your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jason Kupferberg, Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Charlie, welcome aboard. Appreciate all the comments. Just wanted to pick up on one of the things you said in terms of Visa potentially becoming a little bit less rules-oriented going forward. Anything you can elaborate on there? And how soon we might see this?

And then, Byron, if you can just give us a quick clarification on the tax rate issue. It sounds like what you're saying is that you guys already had anticipated this tax benefit when you gave the 30% to 32% full-year tax rate guidance and the high-teens EPS guidance last quarter. Is that accurate?

BYRON POLLITT: Why don't I start. On the tax rate, that's correct. Your tax rate is always comprised of components. This was a component that the timing of which uncertain, but this type of component was contemplated. And as a result, it's fully consistent with the guidance we gave at the end of last quarter.

CHARLIE SCHARF: And Jason, I'll take the question on flexibility. I think the way to think about that one is, again, if you go around and you talk to issuers across the globe, and if you talk to merchants, and if you ask what is the negative quality of Visa -- hopefully, after they go through the long list of positives -- they'll talk about that we're not as flexible as we could be, and we've got lots and lots of rules.

And so what that means is, they tend to get nervous that we can just change rules. They're not sure about how that might impact them in the future. And our goal should be that we've got rules that protect the integrity and the value of our payments network. That's why they were put in place to begin with, and they've just grown over a period of time.

So what we have to do is, as the Company evolves, is become much more commercial, define the rules as those things that are core to who we are and the protection of the value of our network, as I described. And then move other things into commercial arrangements that you'd have with customers.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: And let me add my congratulations on your first quarter with Visa. You talked earlier about the importance of a global network. But Visa is a separate entity from V.me -- I'm sorry, from Visa Europe -- V.me, wow -- anyway, Visa Europe. And I wanted your thoughts on how long-term Visa Europe plays into the global strategy?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, listen, I mean, yes, I'm sure you guys have talked for five years about the status of Visa Europe and the put and whatnot. I would say we have a very close working relationship with Visa Europe. You are right to say that, from a European perspective, it's a separate system, but it's interoperable. But when we go to market, we work extremely closely with them, so that when customers deal with Visa, it is up to us to figure out how to coordinate with them.

I've spent time with some of our big global customers, and the feedback is, it works well. There are other customers that like to deal with us as separate entities, just as they would if we were one big company. Listen, would you design a company like this? No. But it's a fact of life. And the put's the put, and there's nothing more to say about it.

OPERATOR: Glenn Fodor, Autonomous Research.

GLENN FODOR, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Charlie, look forward to working with you. I'm just trying to get my hands around what Visa's strategy might look like as technology changes the industry. And, Charlie, how far do you think Visa may stray from its historic role as exclusively a network in the middle? And by this, I mean developing more consumer-facing initiatives like V.me?

And then how would you reconcile this strategy with those of your constituent partners, who oftentimes are pursuing these same strategies, so there could be some competitive or brand conflict there? Thank you.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes. Listen, we're here to support the customers of our issuers and acquirers. That's the way we think about it. That's the way things are built here, and that's the way things will continue to build -- to be built. So something like V.me, we're building V.me on behalf of our customers. If you go use V.me, you have to register for it, so that your information gets in there; but from that point forward, it is completely supportive of our banks.

When you pay for something using V.me, we have the ability to show the card art exactly as it exists in someone's wallet today. So, V.me is not meant to be direct-to-consumer to go around our issuers. It's actually just the opposite. It's meant to support them with electronic wallet that will enable them to continue to grow commerce.

And so as we think about -- when you talk about extending who we are, we love the business that we're in. Presumably you all love the business that we're in, which is why we trade the way we do. And so we're very mindful of that. And the opportunities for us to continue to figure out how to use technology, whether it's our own, or whether it's other people's, to feed that network and to use our assets, is what we're focused on.

OPERATOR: Dan Perlin, RBC.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I just want to return to this issue of capital allocation. And I know that you've said that there's not much of a change, but I was thinking more in terms of the first priority is always back into the business. And I heard you mention in your prepared remarks around priorities and others outside the US a number of times. So I'm wondering if you could just shed some light, without being too specific, I suspect, on how we should be thinking about capital redeployment through this geographic mix that you guys have? Thank you.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Byron, you want --?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, I'll start. So, I would say the first call on the growth in our capital is going to be software development that underpins our products. Our new products in mobile, V.me are right on the point of the spear with that. That is -- that would support products that would be deployed both in the United States and in rest-of-world. And the development of those products, the actual incurring of the capital, would also actually occur both in the United States and outside.

As you build additional product capability and extension of the services we offer, that will also require investment in infrastructure -- not just the capacity to house, to operate and to process, but also new challenges like security. So VisaNet, very, very formidable battle-tested defenses. As you start moving into products that don't have -- that are going to start operating as an extension outside of VisaNet, it requires additional investment in technologies in order to -- and to properly secure.

And so that is the primary source of hard dollar capital. And then as Charlie mentioned, we still have an enormous runway of growth in our base business, so we are adding offices. We are expanding. We are putting more people on the ground. We are at our best when we have people deployed in-country giving personalized, tailored service to our clients -- banks, acquirers, merchants. And so that reinvestment will not just be capital expenditure, it will also be operating expense with a immediate return in the core business.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me just add to what Byron said. If you just look at relative levels and just get my own view coming in from the outside, is there is a lot of investment that is going on here. You see it in the expense line. You see it in the initiatives. You see -- I mean, you don't get to market with something like V.me without putting the resources into it or being able to be in the market with mobile without having -- use the capital on something like Fundamo and whatnot.

So there is a significant level of investment going on what you see, and it still allows us to do what we have done with a dividend and with the repurchase program here. So we feel like there is just plenty of room for all of those things.

OPERATOR: Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Great, Charlie, so with your experience on the bank side, are the tangible steps for you to make to help Visa improve its relationship with the banks, particularly the large banks? For instance, as you push new products like V.me, you need the large banks onboard. And so far, it's unclear to what extent the largest banks are fully supportive at this point.

It's helpful to hear that 12 of the top 25 banks are signed up for V.me, but that could imply that 13 of 25 are not signed up, at least at this point. And so that's one example. But on that example in Visa's general relationship with large banks, are their tangible steps to take to better engage with the banks? Thanks.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes. I guess let me answer it a couple of ways to just -- listen, we can always improve relationships, so let's just -- I mean, I'll -- but I will come back to that. I said 12 of the top 25. We have four of the top 10 who are already signed up for it. And, again, when you say large banks, the Bank of America is a great partner of ours. PNC is a great partner of ours. U.S. Bank is a great partner of ours. TD Bank is a great partner -- I mean, I could go on through the names. We have a great list of partners that are currently signed up for it.

I've spent a bunch of time myself talking to the biggest banks in this country, but just so you know, I don't spend all my time thinking about the biggest banks in this country. The big banks here are important, but so are the regional banks, so are the credit unions, so are the community banks, just as the banks overseas. So I just want to be clear about that.

But, listen, we have -- you go through the relationships that we have with the big US banks, and it's hard to say you trade our position with anyone's in the marketplace. And is that something we have to earn every day? Absolutely. Are things like V.me, things that actually solidify those relationships? Absolutely.

There's a lot more that we're doing working in partnership with banks of all sizes to create that partnership orientation away from a vendor orientation. We view it as something that it's not a God-given right. We've got to earn it every day. But again, just to end where I started is, we've got great relationships with these banks. We don't take them for granted, but like anything else, we work -- we come in every day to figure out how do we make them better?

OPERATOR: Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Charlie, welcome to the call. Just thinking about your initiatives, being more flexible, partnering and customizing, I'm curious -- to accomplish this, do you foresee more investments required to get there? Or are those in place?

And I also wanted to ask just about your comment about working closer with the merchants. I know Visa has been moving closer to the merchant for some time. And given your background from the issuer's side, how much closer can Visa get to the merchant before you, I guess, complicate the issue or relationship, if you follow my question?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Let me do that one first. I'm not at all worried -- I say worried; I always worry to the extent of we always should be careful and clear. So just assume that that's the case. But in my conversations with issuers, we all agree, because they're in the exact same spot. And I speak as much from where I came from as where I am. That we all need to do a better job of working with merchants.

Now, listen, our customers are merchants and acquirers. We've got that; we understand that. But, ultimately, there's someone who uses the payment product and there's someone that accepts the payment product. And if the person that accepts the payment product is not particularly happy, that's not a good thing for us. And it's not a good thing for the issuers either.

So we're in total alignment on changing the nature of those relationships where they're warranted. And it's something that we do that we're working on in partnership with them as well as partnership with the acquirers. We've had very open conversations with the acquirers about that. I was just with them -- with all the big acquirers this past weekend. And they're totally supportive of it. So I'm not going to assume -- assuming that we do this openly, the right kind of way, I think we're all in this together.

And your first -- the first part of the question?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes. I'll take the first one. So the first question I think, Tien-Tsin, was more about in our efforts to be -- have more tailored and flexible client relationships, do we expect this -- is that going to cost more in terms of capital?

And I would say at the current point in time, the big capital is in creating the products and in the capabilities that allow you to operate and leverage a large network. And that today, is their expense involved in tailoring? Yes. But we don't have line of sight to large expense.

And a good example of that would be our strategy of recognizing, as Charlie said earlier, that the single largest open-to-buy on the planet is the Visa cardholders' access to our network. Hence, part of our strategy is to build products that can be accessed through our network with common spec APIs that make it very easy for users or our clients to hook into the network. So in the spirit of how we're expending our capital, I would say over the next several years, its past is much more representative of [prologue].

OPERATOR: Chris Brendler, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: I wondered if you could skip to any color on the progress you're making with Interlink? Any sense of how much success you're having with PAVD and actually getting transactions routed over that signature Visa network on the debit side, as well as any update there may be on the FAN fee.

And then maybe for Charlie, along with the FAN fee, is there anything in that comment you made about being closer to the merchant and working more with the merchant that would make future implementations of fees like this go a little more smoothly? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me take that one to start. So on Interlink, if you go back to the third fiscal quarter of 2012, that's -- that was the quarter, April 1 was when the dual network Durbin requirement became effective. That was high tide in terms of Interlink payment volume loss. So our growth rate in that third quarter was minus 54.

If you then move to the fourth quarter, so that's the fourth fiscal September ending quarter, the growth rate for Interlink was minus 48. If you then move to Q1, so the December ending quarter, we're at minus 44. And so these -- and clearly, we're going to have one other major quarter of transaction loss through Interlink, because it takes four quarters to lap the Durbin effect. But you can see 54, 48, 44 -- there is progress.

Having said that, there is going to be, as we've said all along, there is going to be a significant permanent transaction loss as a result of the Durbin regulations. And so while we would expect to continue to make some progress, there is no way we're going to get back to where we were before. And then as I mentioned in my remarks, once we get into that third fiscal quarter, then the growth rate picture should start looking very different with regards to our debit business, because we're now lapping Durbin.

With regards to PAVD, PAVD is up and operating. It's important to note that a transaction that goes -- that is PAVD -- that is a PAVD transaction, actually shows up in our Visa Debit payment volume, not Interlink. And so PAVD is up and operating. You should think of that at best contributing very modestly to our payment volume growth in US debit.

And with regards to FANF, that -- and remember, FANF is one part of a much more comprehensive fee restructuring, which was combined with a lowering of our per-transaction cost, in addition to the introduction of merchant incentives to encourage routing, which is still on the upward ramp. FANF has now been in place since the April quarter, and so far seems to be going well.

Charlie, do you want to add anything?

CHARLIE SCHARF: I guess the only thing I'd add is, listen, I think it's unfair and it's hard to try and stick yourself into the position of someone else when you're going through what this Company was going through. And so, I have not personally sat and gone through exactly what happened. What was the thought? What were the options? All the things that you would do to answer your question directly, I haven't done, because I'm looking at the future here.

But as I said, I think as we -- and I think we're all on the same page internally on this one, is just as we look forward, which is the important thing here. I mean, it's about balancing everyone's issues. And it's balancing issuers. It's balancing those with merchants, with acquirers, with our own needs. And we're going to be very, very conscious of that. We're going to do the right thing, whether it creates noise or not, but make sure that everyone is represented in that discussion before we make a decision.

OPERATOR: Don Fandetti, Citigroup.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Charlie, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about how you view the longer-term threat from China UnionPay? And then maybe talk a bit about how you see the opportunity in China playing out and what your approach will be to that market?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. I was in China, I don't know, two or three weeks ago, and had the opportunity to meet with a couple of senior members in government, with some of our big clients with China UnionPay, and do some -- and participate in some other activities that we're involved in socially there.

China is an interesting place for sure. We're there. We make money there. And we've got some great partners there. The WT ruling speaks for itself. Over time, that market will evolve and will change. And we feel like it's important for us to be a good partner to people within the country to bring the benefits of Visa to China.

In my conversations with people there, they want us there. They think we can add value, not just because of the brand, but because of what our network is versus maybe what China UnionPay is today. And we would hope, over a period of time, that we can work with China UnionPay in the context of the way the regulations exist today. And as that market changes and evolves, we'll figure out how we can do more inside that country, just as they look beyond that country as they develop.

But again, I come back to what we have. Our network has been around for a long time. We've got 2 billion cards? Is that the number? 2 billion cards outstanding. You know, the largest open-to-buy. The quality of the fraud tools. I mean, I can go on and on about what our network has. And if there's another competitor out there, so be it. Good competition is a good thing, not a bad thing.

OPERATOR: Andrew Jeffrey, SunTrust.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Appreciate you taking the question. Charlie, when you think about investment in the business, aside from products and so forth, how do you think about market share -- I think, particularly, in the US, which is the most mature market in which you operate from an electronic payment standpoint? And should we consider an effort to bolster share, both on credit and debit, as a central component of the investments going forward as well?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes. So, listen, I said this before, which is, our number one opportunity is cash. So we're constantly -- the first thing we look at when we think about share is we think about the share of cash versus electronic payments. And it's our goal, it's our mission, it's what we do for a living, is to move that number towards electronification for all the reasons I talked about. It's just -- it's the right thing and it's a good thing for all the participants in the marketplace.

And so I know everyone likes to always ask questions -- I mean, even in my old job, they used to ask how you compete against the other competitors out there. We've got great competitors. They're doing some neat things. They're smart people. So I think first and foremost, given the market we're in, there's plenty of room for a bunch of us to be successful here. And so that is -- the enemy, first and foremost, is cash. When you look at how we're doing versus competitors, we look pretty good. Pretty happy with it.

OPERATOR: Tim Willi, Wells Fargo.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: So on the regulatory front, as you travel the world, it sounds like over the last several months, could you give us your thoughts on what kind of regulatory and political environments that you have to navigate? How you think that would impact the economics of your emerging market growth versus how your economics look in the more established markets? And if you've been pleasantly surprised or found it to be more challenging as you assess what you've heard over the last couple of months globally?

CHARLIE SCHARF: Yes, I would say -- I mean, I think, first of all, it's very different in different parts of the world. And so, you obviously know about the US. You've read about Canada. You know about Australia, presumably. And it really is different depending on where you are.

What I -- again, and I alluded to this in lots of my remarks when we started, but I was really positively taken aback by the desire for government officials to want us to be in the market, committed to helping electronify their payments. It doesn't mean that they're not concerned about Interchange or they're not concerned about figuring out what they want in-country versus not. I mean, different countries have different points of view on that. But they want us to be a participant. They see the value in that.

And, again, this is not -- this wasn't me going around the world trying to sell our services. This was me going to meet people. And as part of that, the clear message to me was, we want you here. And when you're in that kind of situation, that's a pretty good place to be in.

Byron, anything you want to add?

BYRON POLLITT: There's a wonderful dynamic. There are always two doors in the government. The first door is always open with an open invitation. You can't tax what you can't see. Hence, there's a very strong motivation for governments to be very interested in engaged partners.

And then, I would say the other piece is, our position and others when we get deeply involved in the electronification of payments, we become an important part of the money -- monetary system, or can be, in a country. And that's why in virtually every major market, we have government relations representatives we engage early.

We educate. We lay good groundwork, so that these dialogues are constructive and increase the probability of a good reinforcing regulatory environment, as we lay the foundation for growing in the domestic markets of these emerging markets.

OPERATOR: Bob Napoli, William Blair.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Thank you, and welcome, Charlie. Your bar is a lot higher than Joe's was. Your stock is trading at 21 times earnings. His was -- it was nowhere near that when he started. So, given that bar, and given that this looks like such a great story, which is why the valuation has done what it has, what do you view, what are you most worried about? What are the biggest risks? What can derail this train?

I mean, is it something like a PayPal offline, an MCX, other countries like India, RuPay, going the way of China UnionPay? What are you most worried about? What can derail this, what has been a great story so far?

CHARLIE SCHARF: So I mean, let me just go through a couple of thoughts. First of all, I would say focus. Knowing -- being clear who our clients are and not, is extremely important. You know, we get a lot of pressure from a lot of people to use our assets, to go do things and whatnot. And so my comments around knowing that our clients are the issuers and the acquirers is extremely important. We change the nature of those relationships. We put a lot of money in jeopardy at this place and potential future growth.

Regulation and legislation, clearly, has been a big issue for the industry. We're very, very conscious of it. You can't be here and not be. Hopefully, some of the things I talked about when I talked about the priorities over time are things that get to those issues. Because, ultimately, if you've got the people who are participating in the payment system, wanting to do business with you as opposed to the opposite, then you don't get some of the pressures that you see.

Again, competition is competition. I mean, there's some great competition out there. I wouldn't trade our position with other people. It doesn't mean that we don't think about them. It doesn't mean that people don't do some really smart things that we sit there and we say, why them and not us? That's always the case in every business. But hopefully, they're sitting there and thinking more so of us.

So, we spend a lot of time talking about both the traditional and the nontraditional people. So, for sure, we worry about it, but ultimately, that one as of, you know, sitting here today, we feel like we're in a good place.

JACK CARSKY: Brad, at this point, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Our final question will come from Bryan Keane of Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I just wanted to follow-up on a couple questions. I guess, Charlie, on the strategy. How do you feel about the risk of being disintermediated, either through ACH or through another player, especially as we move into more of a mobile world?

And then, secondly, for Byron, just the rest-of-world payment volumes kind of spiked in the quarter. Just curious to know if that was supplemented by some new wins that pushed that number higher? Thanks so much.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Sure. So, you know, on disintermediation, when I talk about competitors, traditional and non-traditional, that encompasses a wide range of people. So, again, we think about it. We worry about it.

What we hope people would look at over a period of time, and what we think people look at over a period of time, is our assets that we have here is really hard to build. It just is. The global connectivity, the acceptance that we have, the actual network the way I described it, and other people have other assets out there that they bring to the party.

What we should be doing, and are doing, and will do more of, is engaging with that community to figure out how they can get access to our network in a way which is friendly to our customers. Because ultimately, it doesn't make sense for them to go build something that we already have. Doesn't mean people won't try. Doesn't mean they haven't tried in the past. But, again, I keep saying this, it's up to us to prove to people why our asset is as good as we think. And that's what we'll continue to do.

BYRON POLLITT: And Bryan, on the international TV uptick in this quarter, for reasons that are not -- that aren't clear, other than the tension that we had around China and Japan, and mostly in the Asia-Pacific around -- that impacted the Chinese, the Japanese, Korean cross-border travel as tensions over Island ownership spiked -- everything from the Senkaku's to the Diaoyu's to the Spratly's.

There seemed to be a more broad-based malaise in that quarter. And the recovery, if I can call it that, or the rebound, was very broad-based. It's still down in that pocket of Asia where the -- where that tension existed last quarter. But there's been more of a broad-based uptick. So it's not win-specific; it's more of a broad-based uptick. And remember, for us, that's the world excluding Europe.

JACK CARSKY: And with that, we'd like to thank everybody for joining us today. If you have any follow-up calls, feel free to give Investor Relations a call.

CHARLIE SCHARF: Thanks, everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation on today's conference call. At this time, all parties may disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130221e926000jk
  


 HD
 Q4  2012  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,740 words
   PD
31 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal Q4 and full-year 2012 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD, GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Good afternoon, and welcome, everyone, to Visa Inc.'s fourth fiscal quarter and full-year 2012 earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast over the Internet. It can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website, at investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days.

A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance; and, as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements.

These include setbacks in the global economy and the impact of new financial reform regulations. Additional information concerning those factors is available in the Company's filings with the SEC, which can be accessed through the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of the Visa website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal fourth-quarter and full-year earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the IR section of our website.

And with that, I turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Jack. And, as always, thank you all for joining us today. Let me begin by saying that our hearts and thoughts are with the people on the East Coast of the United States who are now who are now recovering from Hurricane Sandy. Many of our clients, our employees, our partners, and investors like you live in affected areas. And we hope that you, your families, and your neighbors are all safe and moving toward a full and speedy recovery.

Visa closed out fiscal 2012 with a solid fourth quarter, delivering net operating revenues of $2.7 billion, a 15% increase over the same period last year. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter were $1.54, an increase 21% over the prior-year quarter. The adjustment in diluted earnings reflects the impact of a $627 million increase in net income during the fourth quarter, from the reversal of tax reserves and accrued interest associated with our covered litigation. This was due to the withdrawal of the notice of proposed adjustment by the IRS during the quarter. Byron will provide additional commentary.

Revenue gains for the quarter were driven by particularly strong payments volume growth for credit products in the United States, as well as continued expansion of our core business and growth of processed transactions in international markets.

Visa also delivered strong performance for the full fiscal year. Net operating revenue in 2012 was a record $10.4 billion, a 13% increase over 2011. Adjusted net income was $4.2 billion, a 19% increase over the prior year. Full-year adjusted diluted earnings per share came in at $6.20, 24% ahead of last year.

Now let's turn to the discussion to what's ahead in 2013. Byron will get into the specifics on broad guidance for fiscal 2013, but we are reaffirming our commitment to a growth rate in the high teens for adjusted diluted earnings per share. That being said, Visa is taking a measured approach to the coming year. We are mindful of uncertainties in the global operating environment, including softness in some pockets of the global economy, and continued volatility in Europe. And, given our better-than-anticipated performance in fiscal 2012, we essentially raised the bar on ourselves and now face somewhat tougher comparisons in the coming year.

With that in mind, at this early point in fiscal 2013, we are once again setting our net revenue guidance growth to low-double-digits. An improving economic environment could well change our view, but we'll take a prudent road for the time being.

Effective tomorrow, Charlie Scharf becomes Visa's Chief Executive Officer. I will continue as Executive Chairman of the Company until March 31, at which point I plan to retire. Charlie's appointment was the result of a thorough and robust succession process. Charlie is a proven leader. He has experience as a senior executive with large global enterprise, and is familiar with Visa both as a client and as a Board member. Importantly, Charlie drove innovation while at the helm of Chase's retail operation.

I am confident that Charlie will hit the ground running, not miss a beat, and accelerate our forward momentum. I look forward to working with him to make this transition seamless. And I'm sure he looks forward to getting to know you better, and that he will talk to you directly when he leads our next earnings call.

Given Visa's outlook for growth, we continue to deliver on our commitment to return excess cash back to shareholders. During the quarter, our as-converted common share count was reduced by 2.5 million shares, at an average price of $127 per share, by spending $324 million.

Earlier this month, our Board of Directors authorized an incremental $1.5 billion for Class A share repurchases. Additionally, as reported last week, our Board raised our dividend 50% over last year's rate to $1.32 per share on an annualized basis.

Turning to our business in the United States, overall we continued to apply a disciplined approach to expand Visa's business in the rapidly evolving technological and competitive landscape. Our business is tracking closely with our expectations. For credit products, Visa extended our gains. During the September quarter, payment volume grew 9%, with particular strength from our affluent products.

Prepaid growth also continues to be strong in United States, with the general purpose of payroll segments serving as our two biggest growth drivers in the category during the September quarter, posting 28% and 30% payment volume growth, respectively.

Now let's turn to US debit, where the situation continues to play out as expected and in-line with our guidance. Quarter by quarter, we are getting smarter about how to operate in the new environment, and which levers to pull to grow our debit business. That being said, I want to reiterate our beliefs that share loss resulting from the Dodd-Frank regulation is both permanent and fully incorporated in our FY 13 guidance.

Overall, US debit growth rates have stabilized since our last earnings report, with aggregate debit payment volume growth modestly improving to negative 6% during the September quarter. Further, we have been working with issuers to secure long-term contracts. To that end, we secured our top 15 US debit issuers to long-term agreements.

In short, our revised strategies for the US debit segment continue to gain traction in the marketplace, achieving Visa's own operational and financial expectations while simultaneously delivering value and benefit to our clients.

As for the US Department of Justice's civil investigative demand, I have no material update. We are regularly submitting data to the DOJ. The Company will continue to update you as the situation develops, but we remain comfortable in our position on this issue.

At the same time, we are making steady progress towards completing the previously announced merchant litigation settlement in the United States. On October 19, the merchant plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval. Subsequently, the judge set an accelerated timetable last week, which calls for hearings on the motion on November 9. We are hopeful the judge will grant preliminary approval shortly thereafter, with the rules becoming effective 60 days later. Bottom line -- I'm confident that the overwhelming majority of merchants will support the agreement, and it will be approved.

Now let's briefly turn to Visa's international geographies, where payment volume growth moderated slightly during the fiscal fourth quarter, but still delivered strong revenue growth of 13%, as we continue to maintain our strong competitive leadership position. Overall, we continue to advance towards our goal of generating 50% of our revenue from outside the United States.

To drive growth, we continue to apply a targeted investment strategy which deploys locally tailored acceleration plans within several key geographies. In doing so, our goal is to substantially increase Visa's revenue over a five-year time horizon.

In the interest of time, I won't walk through a list of new and expanded agreements from the quarter. But suffice it to say, we continue to grow our relationships with financial institutions, merchants, and governments of all sizes around the world. And these are driving payment volume and process transactions as well as revenue growth for Visa. This approach will continue to be a priority as our organization moves ahead in the future.

Lastly, let me talk about Visa's innovation agenda, an area where we are making considerable progress. We continue to invest in new technologies that will increase the number of transactions on our core business platforms; add incremental value to the merchant community and their acquirers; and forge new revenue opportunities, for both Visa and our financial institution clients.

And most importantly, we know that our innovations must create real value for our clients' account holders, who ultimately use these products and services.

Let's start with V.me, our digital wallet. We are making significant progress putting together the network that will enable us to scale consumer adoption of V.me. On the issuer front, we recently announced two major partners -- PNC and US Bank, both of which will make an immediate impact as we begin to grow users of the product. All together, we have 34 agreements signed with leading US issuers, including four of our 10 largest institutions in the United States.

Looking ahead, we're confident that the number will continue to grow. Together, they give us the opportunity to tap roughly 50 million consumers through our bank partners. We look forward to making additional announcements in this area in the coming months. At the same time, we're making progress signing up merchants for V.me.

By the middle of 2013, we expect to have more than 1000 online merchants using V.me, including 20 of the 50 largest e-commerce merchants in the country. I want to reiterate that V.me is designed to help capture the significant, immediate growth opportunity in e-commerce. E-commerce is one of our fastest-growing channels, with Forrester Research predicting that US consumers will spend $327 billion online by 2016, up 45% from the $226 billion in 2012.

As a reminder, V.me creates a simplified and secure e-commerce experience for consumers, no matter what payment device or technology they choose to transact with. This offers our clients a differentiated solution to address a real market opportunity today, and provides a fast and convenient experience for consumers making online purchases.

At the same time, Visa is a leader in enabling NFC payments at the point of sale in the United States. As one example, Isis -- the payment's joint venture founded by AT&T Mobility, T-Mobile USA, and Verizon wireless -- is currently enabling Visa payments via NFC in its own mobile wallet as part of their recently launched pilot.

Isis' open approach aligns with Visa's strategy of enabling consumers to make mobile payments with whatever device they choose, using the trusted accounts they already have. Consumer adoption of NFC is in its very early stages today, and I'm very comfortable that Visa is well-positioned to deliver the best mobile solutions to our clients, helping them take advantage of this long-term shift in consumer behavior.

Also on the innovation front, I'm pleased that CyberSource continues to deliver exceptional growth and expand its e-commerce business around the world. The most recent quarter billable transactions totaled 1.4 billion, growing 25% versus the same period a year ago. CyberSource's unique capabilities are particularly resonating in international markets.

At the time we bought CyberSource, they had field operations in only four countries. Today that number is 12 and growing, and CyberSource teams are benefiting from Visa's local market knowledge.

To conclude, I'd like to say, again, how proud I am of what we have accomplished here at Visa. Since our restructuring five years ago, we have successfully delivered on all of our investor commitments, and transitioned to a solid public company that will continue to compete globally well into the future.

Visa is built on a simple yet effective strategy -- to be the best way to pay, and be paid. To deliver on that promise, we have created an organization that is focused on delivering payment products and services to the evolving needs of consumers, merchants, governments and financial institutions.

We have also established a culture that can adapt to a fast-changing landscape and thrive in the midst of challenges. And we are well positioned to continue to expand our core business, invest in next-generation technologies that will define the future of payments, and accelerate expansion of our business outside of the United States.

Today, I know we have the right people, the right strategy, the right technology, and the right experience to continue to be a leader of our industry. And with Charlie as CEO, I am confident that Visa will continue to grow globally, and deliver innovation that meets the needs of Visa account holders and our clients.

I'd like to thank everyone at Visa, all of our partners and all of our investors, for the opportunity to work with you. I look forward to seeing Visa take full advantage of all that lies ahead.

And with that, let me turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. I'll begin with some observations and callouts. First, as Joe mentioned at the outset, we reported the quarter on an adjusted basis. We were recently notified by the IRS that the NOPA, or notice of proposed adjustment, in connection with the deductibility of our litigation payments made in 2008, had been withdrawn. As a result, we reevaluated and reversed all previously recorded tax reserves and accrued interest associated with all covered litigation expense previously recorded.

This increased net income for the quarter by $627 million.

Second, US revenue growth continues to be supported by solid credit payment volume growth; although our six consecutive quarters of double-digit growth were interrupted, as the September quarter clocked in at 9%. Through the 28th of October, however, credit payment volume growth has comped at an 11% rate -- a notable rebound, reflecting a month-to-month volatility dynamic we have seen more of recently.

Third, with four quarters of lower US debit interchange, and two quarters of the new debit routing rule behind us, the impacts have been manageable. Aggregate US debit posted a negative 6% growth rate in the fourth quarter versus a negative 9% in the third quarter; led by Interlink payment volume, which was off 48%, versus 54% in the third quarter.

While we are pleased our mitigation strategies are working as planned, and are consistent with our expectations, we would caution that the US debit environment is still evolving.

Finally, as was the case last quarter, the all-in impact from US debit regulation -- which includes restructured pricing, incentives, other mitigation strategies, and volume loss -- cost us about $0.04 in EPS for the quarter. Management's view of the future effects have been incorporated into our guidance.

Now let's turn to the numbers. As is our practice, I will cover our global payment volume and process transaction trends for the quarter, followed by our results through October 28. I will then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal fourth quarter, and conclude with our guidance outlook for fiscal 2013.

Global payment volume growth for the September quarter in constant dollars was 6%, unchanged from the June quarter. The US grew at 1%; and rest-of-world at 12%. More recently, through October 28, US payment volume growth posted a 3% gain, comprised of 11% credit growth and minus 4% for debit.

Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 10% constant dollar growth rate in the September quarter, which compares to a 14% rate in the third quarter. The US grew 8%; and the rest-of-world, 11%. The moderation in growth was broad-based, with notable step-downs in the US, North and Southeast Asia, and Latin America. Through October 28, cross-border volumes on a constant dollar basis grew 11%; with a US growth rate of 9%, and rest-of-world at 12%.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled 14 billion in the fiscal fourth quarter, a 2% increase over the prior-year period, and up from 1% in the prior quarter. A debit-led decline of 1% in the US was offset by 19% growth in the rest of world. For the month of October through the 28th, processed transaction growth was a positive 4%, driven by an improving trajectory in the US.

Separately, CyberSource recorded 1.4 billion transactions for the period, a 25% increase over the prior year.

Three call-outs -- first, as expected, the brunt of US debit regulation is being felt by our Interlink product, where transaction growth will continue to be negative until we lap the implementation of the routing rules in the middle of next year.

Second, Visa process transactions continue to grow at double-digit rates for US credit and rest-of-world.

Finally, as Joe mentioned at the outset, we are operating under the assumption that the US and global economies will continue their moderate growth over the next 12 months; as uncertainty from the fiscal cliff; continued Eurozone concerns; and a general slowdown in world trade put a damper on domestic consumer and cross-border spending.

Now turning to the income statement. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $2.7 billion, a 15% increase year over year, and ahead of our expectations as a result of stronger US debit and credit performance. For the full fiscal year, net operating revenue was $10.4 billion, a 13% increase over the prior year, and a better performance than we had anticipated going into the year.

After hedges, there was negative 1% foreign exchange impact on net revenue in the quarter, and no impact to the full year.

Moving to the individual revenue line items. Service revenue was $1.3 billion, up 14% over the prior-year period. This reflects strong payment volume growth in the June quarter, the revenue from which is recorded in the September quarter. Data processing revenue was $1.1 billion, up 15% over the prior year's quarter, based on solid growth rates from Visa processed transactions outside of the US; and for CyberSource globally, as well as competitive pricing actions that became effective last quarter.

The step-up in gross revenue data processing yield, which we first saw last quarter, continued to carry through this quarter, due in part to strategic pricing adjustments; but also driven by the ongoing, though moderating, decline in Interlink transactions, which are, by far, our lowest yielding product.

International transaction revenue was up 5% to $796 million, reflecting solid but moderating strength in cross-border volumes, with mid-single-digit growth rates in the US and Asia-Pacific; low-double-digit growth in Latin America; and low 20s in our SEMEA region, as measured on a constant dollar basis.

Client incentives for the quarter as a percent of gross revenues came in at 17%, lower than we had anticipated on a percentage basis, due to better-than-expected revenue performance, but in line in terms of absolute dollars. For the fiscal year 2012, incentives were 17% of gross revenues, at the low end of our guidance of 17% to 18%.

While total operating expenses for the quarter were $1.2 billion, up 18%, it is important to note that this heavier-than-normal operating expense level is not a new quarterly run rate. When viewed on a full-year adjusted basis, expenses grew 12%, of which approximately 2 percentage points were due to annualizing acquisition expenses. And, as expected, this annual expense growth was consistent with delivering a 60% adjusted operating margin, which was our guidance for the year.

As further perspective on expenses, three call-outs. First, we staged more of our investments spend in the second half of the year to enable a tighter linkage between revenue and expense growth. Second, marketing spend of $271 million intensified in Q4, associated with the London Olympics. For the full year, marketing expenses were $873 million, relatively unchanged from the prior year, and in line with our guidance. And finally, third, we took over $30 million in Q4 restructuring reserves, which included the closing of our San Francisco offices and consolidation of our staff into our Foster City campus. Looking ahead to 2013, we have planned a closer balance between first- and second-half operating spend.

Our operating margin for the quarter was 56%, bringing our fiscal full-year adjusted margin to 60%, which, as noted earlier, was on target with our guidance for the year. Capital expenditures were $141 million in the quarter, and ended the fiscal year at $376 million. This roughly represents the midpoint of our guidance range.

Our adjusted tax rate for Q4 was 33%; and for the entire fiscal year, 33%. As I mentioned at the outset, both of these figures were affected by events over the course of the year.

During the quarter, total as-converted Class A common stock was reduced by 2.5 million shares at an average price of $127 per share, utilizing $324 million of operating cash on hand. This is inclusive of the $150 million escrow funding made in late July. As Joe mentioned at the outset, our Board recently authorized a new repurchase program totaling $1.5 billion, effective through October of 2013. This is incremental to the $865 million still outstanding from our previous authorization.

We also raised our annual dividend 50% to $1.32 per share on an annualized basis, which represents a payout ratio of about 21% on 2012 adjusted earnings. At the end of the September quarter, we had 668 million shares of Class A common stock on an as-converted basis. The weighted average number of fully diluted shares for the fourth quarter totaled 672 million; and for the full fiscal year, 678 million.

Finally, let me finish up with our guidance for fiscal 2013. In terms of the top line, as Joe said at the outset, we are guiding to net revenue growth in the low-double-digits, though the possibility of upside exists if we were to see a noticeably stronger economic rebound over the course of the year than we are currently experiencing.

As a reminder, going into fiscal 2012, we built into our internal projections a sustained but modest recovery for that year, with fiscal Q3 and Q4 bearing the brunt of US debit regulation, followed by economic acceleration in 2013. That said, the trends in the past two quarters suggest economic assumptions around 2013 were too optimistic.

Many of the same uncertainties remain. And while we lost significant US debit share, we weathered the second half of 2012 better than we expected. As we look ahead into 2013, growing uncertainty in the US and world economy has precipitated a slowdown in domestic and cross-border spending.

When we combine this global outlook with the higher bar created by better-than-anticipated 2012 revenue growth, we now find ourselves in a situation similar to 2012 and believe revenue guidance in the low-double-digit range is the right call at this time.

Adjusted diluted earnings per share growth remains the same, at a high-teens rate. Client incentives as a percent of gross revenue are expected to range between 18% and 18.5%. We expect this modest increase over fiscal 2012 to be driven by a growing level of incentives for financial institutions outside the US, in combination with incentive contracts with large US merchants and acquirers.

Marketing expense is projected to be under $1 billion. However, we will see a moderate uptick over the level of fiscal 2012, with more of the marketing spend budgeted in the first half versus the prior year. The uptick will be driven by greater investment in our AP/SEMEA region, as well as incremental investments behind our V.me and mobile initiatives.

Operating margin is expected to remain at about 60%. The tax rate is expected to be in the 30% to 32% range. This reduction anticipates benefits from foreign tax credits to be claimed in fiscal 2013. We anticipate the timing of these benefits to be skewed more to the second half of the fiscal year.

Capital expenditures are projected to range from $425 million to $475 million. This represents a moderate increase over the $376 million we spent in 2012, and fully fans funds investments we are making across the globe in support of our core business, as well as our mobile and e-commerce initiatives.

Finally, we expect free cash flow of about $5 billion. Our priorities for use of this cash remain the same -- first, reinvesting in the business; second, appropriate acquisitions; and third, distribution to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

Before we take your questions, recognizing Joe's retirement next March, I want to briefly reflect on Visa's five years as a merged business entity, and our 4.5 year public life. With 2008 as the base year, and despite a deep US recession and challenging regulatory environment, under Joe's leadership the Visa team has delivered net revenue growth at a 14% compound annual growth rate, and adjusted diluted EPS at a 29% compound annual growth rate.

Our adjusted operating margin has gone from 46% in March of 2008 to 60% today. We lowered our tax rate from 41% to 33%. We have tripled our dividend rate through annual increases, and have collectively returned $1.8 billion in dividends to our shareholders, IPO to date. Lastly, over that same period of time, we have reduced our common share count through litigation, escrow funding, and open market purchases, by 118 million shares, representing $9 billion returned to shareholders.

And with that, Operator, for the 19th time since going public, we are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Bob Napoli, William Blair.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Thank you and good afternoon. Congratulations, Joe, and I wish you the very, very best.

JOE SAUNDERS: Thank you.

BOB NAPOLI: I had a question on your new CEO, starting tomorrow -- Charlie. What led you to Charlie Scharf? This is a dynamic technology business; international growth. Charlie is -- everything we can tell, is a very strong executive, but more of a US bank guy. What were the key choices in selecting Charlie, and going outside the Company today versus internal?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, as I mentioned in my comments today, he's a dynamic executive. He's done very well. He understands our business. He has been a client. He has been on our Board. If you remember, he was on the Board of this Company for three years. He has more than a fleeting familiarity with Visa. He is very familiar with the staff at Visa, having interacted with many of them for a number of years. He has run large, global operations in the past. And while he's not a technologist per se, he's run large organizations that depend very significantly on technology.

We also, as you remember, have parsed our Company in a way where we have focused on technology simultaneous to what we do in our core business. And there has to be a recognition that our core business is what's feeding this engine, and what's creating the revenue and the cash flow that allows us to invest.

We have an extremely strong technology organization. We've hired a number of extraordinary individuals over the last two or three years. We're very, very confident that that organization has the ability to take -- continue to take us forward. And, in fact, I think you would have to admit that vis-a-vis other companies in our space, we are way out in front. And we don't intend to lose that lead. So, thanks for asking the question.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Thank you. Good luck to Joe as well. One of the beauties of Visa's business model is the scalability. And in looking at your operating margin guidance, it seems like we have another year, in 2013, of relatively modest operating margin expansion. Can you talk about the dynamics that preclude that from happening?

And then specific -- one call-out, or a clarification -- I was wondering if there was a call-out on the other revenue line, because that was up a little bit? Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to operating margin leverage, we have been picking up the pace of reinvesting, particularly in our growth initiatives that are -- that really won't begin to drive revenue in a meaningful way until three and four and five years out. And you can look at mobile, V.me; and so what we have done, up to this point, is invest aggressively in new office expansion and deploying more account executives serving clients in-country, all of which drive margin expansion. Which, as you've noticed, has moved from 46% -- it seems like a lifetime ago -- up to 60%. And as more of our investment or acquisitions are much more forward-looking, there will be more of a lag between when that will show up in operating leverage expansion versus pure investment in the core that leverages the -- completely, the VisaNet platform.

With regards to other revenue, the reserves associated with the release of the FIN 48 expenses that we had recorded associated with the NOPA -- a part of that -- a part of those reserves were recorded in other income. And as we released those reserves, they showed up in that column.

OPERATOR: Greg Smith, Sterne Agee.

GREG SMITH, ANALYST, STERNE, AGEE & LEACH: Yes, hi. Byron, two quick questions on the 2013 guidance. Are there any pricing increase assumptions in there? And the second one is, can you reiterate what you said on marketing? Will we actually see the first half heavier than the second half, or just more of a skew compared to 2012, please?

BYRON POLLITT: Can you repeat the last question again?

GREG SMITH: The total marketing spend, you called out that the -- you said there would be more of a skew to the first half. Were you talking just total, absolute dollars heavier in the first half than the second half? I just wasn't clear on that.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, so let me deal with that one first. There was a -- if you look at the total amount of marketing spend that we incurred in the fourth quarter, it was $271 million. That was 31% of our entire year's marketing budget. And what we have in marketing, this year, is a percentage and dollar weighted much higher to the fourth quarter, or to the second half.

And on a percentage basis, for next year, we expect to see a better balance -- are more even -- it won't be 50-50; but it will be much more in balance between what is spent in the first half and second half.

Even though you asked that question in the context of marketing, let me broaden it and say that that should hold true for our entire operating expenses. We were much more second-half-weighted this past year than we expect to be in the year to come.

And I'm sorry, your first question was?

GREG SMITH: Increase assumptions.

BYRON POLLITT: Price increases. I would say that there is very little in the way of pricing built into the coming year. And, in fact, we are giving back some effective pricing as a part of our response in the US debit arena. The revenue growth for next year is going to be delivered the good old-fashioned way, by driving hard against payment volume, not only in the US but in the rest of world, in particular.

OPERATOR: Jason Kupferberg, Jeffries.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks, guys. And, Joe, my congratulations to you as well. Just wanted to get a general update on the e-commerce business, in terms of either your percent of volume, or percent of revenue, or growth, or whatever metrics you can provide; and some color on to what extent V.me can accelerate this, and perhaps in which timeframe.

And then just a quick clarification for Byron. What caused the jump up in other income here in Q4? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Okay, so with regards to other income, it was principally driven by two things -- the release of reserves which are related to the reversal of the NOPA reserves on the IRS situation that clarified itself this past quarter. The vast majority of those reserves are taxes. But when you are put into a situation where you potentially have to pay back taxes, then you have an interest charge. And that interest charge was the source of the release in reserves that hit that column.

In addition, we had some insurance recoveries that occurred that quarter, and that's why those popped up.

On the e-commerce, with regards to the percentage of our business, we don't have an update on that for the moment. But this is our fastest-growing channel across the Company, globally. And within that e-commerce channel, the fastest-growing form factor is mobile. This is why we have put such emphasis on V.me, which is particularly suited for the mobile form factor, and why we have put such strong focus on mobile strategies that go far beyond NFC and are global in scope.

OPERATOR: Shan Shan Wong, JPMorgan.

SHAN SHAN WONG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks. Joe, I just want to also say thanks and congrats on your retirement. I got two quick ones, maybe. On the rebate line, that was nicely lower than we expected for the quarter. I'm curious, for next year, the line of sight into the 18.5% -- how much of that step-up is signed, based on your deals that you have already renewed or recently won versus anticipated deals? Just trying to get a better sense of conservatism versus reality there.

And then, secondarily, on debit, I know there's a little bit of an improvement in October. How much of that is paved and some of the other mitigation strategies, versus just macro or new wins? That would be great, thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Okay, so on the incentive side, I would say, first of all, that the drivers are almost as much rest-of-world contracts that -- a number of which -- a meaningful increment of which have already been signed and will begin annualizing at a higher incentive rate going into next year. We have already -- so that's one major driver of the incentive increase.

The other major driver is that we are only two quarters into the routing rule changes in US debit. And, as a result of that, we've got a building momentum of agreements that we are signing with merchants and acquirers. And that also will -- and has yet to annualize in the coming year.

OPERATOR: Thomas McCrohan, Janney.

THOMAS MCCROHAN, ANALYST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT: Thanks. And Joe, congratulations on all your achievements, and best of luck in your retirement. Can you expand a little bit about the routing agreements that you still -- being signed with the merchant community? Just give us a sense of how those are going to be structured, and how they are going to be flowing through the income statement. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Well, what I would say is two things -- these agreements are very much performance-oriented agreements. For the most part, they only pay out incentives if the volume is delivered. And I think it's important to emphasize that the agreements themselves don't guarantee volume. They incentive. If the volume is there and the incentives will be paid. And if they aren't, they aren't.

To a certain extent, there's a degree of variability with regards to how much incentives will be paid out. And it will be completely tied to the volume delivered. And then we are still, as I said before, on a path of signing additional merchants with these agreements. And we do expect them to be, not only performance-based, but to grow in number as the year unfolds. The way these are booked into the income statement, virtually 100% [contra] revenue incentives.

OPERATOR: Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Congratulations, Joe, as well. Just a quick question on decomposing the EPS growth rate. In understanding where the revenue growth is and the target for the margins, if you think about the buyback that you guys have currently, coupled with the lower tax rate, is there some proportion that we should be thinking about in terms of how much of the buyback is built into the EPS growth? And then, also, the tax rate -- I think you said it was in the 30% to 32% range. Is that correct?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes. So, Julio, I'm going to let you do the math. What we've done is given you all the metrics that typically -- that we typically give you at this point in time. Clearly, there is a dynamic with the low-double-digit revenue growth, and the operating margin will be the major contributor. Tax, once again, will allow us to add a little octane to the EPS growth.

And then, as you have noticed, we are very disciplined repurchasers of our stock over the course of the year. We also have a habit of re-addressing the opportunity for buyback at every single Board meeting. So, today, as we enter into the new fiscal year, we have $865 million of previously authorized, but unspent, open to buy on share repurchase. We have a $1.5 billion new program that was just announced, so that gives us a little over $2.3 billion of open to buy.

And then, of course, later in the year, should circumstances warrant, we have the opportunity to go back to the Board and ask for additional share repurchase opportunity. Recognize, however, that later in the year that the share repurchases occur, the corresponding lower impact they will have on any given year's EPS.

OPERATOR: Bill Carcache, Nomura.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA: Hello. Thank you. Thanks for taking my question, and I'll add my congrats as well, Joe. Some of the US data that we've seen shows a clear consumer preference for PIN over signature. I wonder if you could comment on whether that is, in fact, what you are seeing as well? And if so, what you attribute that to? And then if you could share your thoughts on how strategically you see the role of US debit, in the context of your suite of payment products, now that it isn't a growth driver that it once was?

BYRON POLLITT: So, we are -- I suppose we're in a bit of an odd position to comment on this, in one sense. Because with regards to PIN, thanks to a regulatory change, a substantial part of our PIN market share was gifted to our competition. And so it's a little hard for us, on the margin, to comment on the PIN.

However, on the signature debit, or what we refer to as Visa debit, I can tell you that our business has -- since the implementation of the rules -- I think, in prior quarters, we have experienced a solid mid-single-digit growth. And that growth rate is, on balance, drifting a little north, in the most recent quarter.

OPERATOR: Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Okay, great. Yes, in terms of the way growth trends are generally playing out in the month of October, MasterCard today indicated growth improvement outside of the US; and, generally, stability in the US. Are you taking somewhat of a more cautious stance on the recent growth trends? Or is your view fairly consistent with the way MasterCard characterized it earlier today?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, they have an eloquent way of stating things, as you've mentioned before. But I wouldn't say we are copying MasterCard. I'd say our growth in the United States -- particularly in the credit business, which is our highest yielding business -- is significantly stronger from any of our competition, and it continues to grow. And I mentioned that in my remarks earlier.

We have strong growth outside of the United States as well. MasterCard deals in Europe, and we don't. They have quite a bit of strength in Europe. But our Asian and Latin American businesses are growing at very robust rates. We continue to believe that we'll have more than 50% of our revenue coming from outside the United States in a very short period of time.

I think that there is tough competition to deal with. I don't think there's any question about that. But we are doing very well. And in the parts of the world in which we do business, we are competitively advantaged and we intend to maintain that.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane, Deutsche Bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi. Just looking at the rest of world, it was a little bit slower than we expected. I think you mentioned, maybe, Asia was -- and, obviously, looking at the numbers, it looked like Asia was a little bit slower. Can you talk about the rest of world? Was that all economy that's causing the deceleration? Is there any contract losses we should know about?

And then secondly, on the international revenue growth, it was a little lower than we expected. Byron, maybe you can help me through that again. Because I know cross-border was up 7%. So it's a little bit below cross-border growth. And usually international revenue growth sometimes is above cross-border. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Okay, so I would say, in looking over the rest of world, that there were no contract losses material to speak of. In fact, I'd I can't even think of one. It's much more economic. And, as we look at the cross-border, as well as the domestic spend inside the rest-of-world countries, both of them put on the brakes a bit. Now recognize, Brian, these are still, for the most part, robust growth rates that we would love to aspire to here in the United States.

But in terms of feeling like they are -- at least in the fourth quarter, there was a bit of a downshift. I think it's economically driven. And with regards to -- I know four weeks does not a trend make, but October was a bit encouraging, as it looks like it was a bit of bounce back in the month of October as it relates to rest-of-world, cross-border; as well as rest-of-world process transactions, both of which we have real-time visibility to.

With regards to international revenue, let's see, we had nominal cross-border growth of 7%. And we had international fee growth of 5%. If I look back over the last three or four quarters, there is always a plus or minus 2 or 3 percentage points of noise. I don't think there is any particular call-out, as I look at the drivers of international fees. I think we're pretty close to the nominal cross-border growth, and no real call-outs.

OPERATOR: David Hochstim, Buckingham Research.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: I'd just like to add my congratulations to Joe, too. I wondered, can you maybe provide a little more color on what you're seeing in the way of spending in Asia and the US? Any changes in behavior, consumers, or corporate customers in terms of spending mix less T&E?

JOE SAUNDERS: There has been a clear increase over the year in credit spending of more affluent people. A lot of what's going on, even the US economy, is driven by consumer spending, as I'm sure you know as well, or better, than I do. And I think that most of these things have exhibited some sustainability.

There are different blips in a few countries around the world, and in Asia in particular, that are associated with specific events. Some of the noise between China and Japan has heard some of the volume between those two countries in the cross-border volume and the payment volume, in particular. And there have been other examples of similar situations.

On the bias, though, things are proceeding as well as we expected, given the overriding macroeconomic situation. And we're very happy we wound up in 2012, including the fourth quarter, and we'll have to go from there. As Byron said earlier, and as I said, we can't totally avoid what's going on in the global economy. But I think that we're certainly positioned to do well next year.

OPERATOR: Ken Bruce, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

KEN BRUCE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good evening. And let me add to the chorus of congratulations on your impending retirement; very well-deserved. My question relates specifically to V.me, and I recognize that it's early days. You gave some very encouraging information earlier. I was wondering if you could maybe provide some insight as to what you think it will take to close the gap on the remaining top 10 issuers.

And separately, if you think that either 2013 guidance already incorporates some of the pickup in spending on V.me, or if you think that is really more of a 2014 and forward event, please.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I'll answer the last part of the question first. I think it's more of a 2014 event. Going back to the Internet, there were $327 billion spent on the -- excuse me, there was $226 billion spent in 2012. People expect that to move to $327 billion by 2016, which I mentioned in my earlier comments.

We have an extraordinary significant share of that volume. It is the fastest-growing category we have, without V.me. I think V.me will enable us to increase our share of the transactions? So not only are we going to be dealing in a category that's increasing; and even though that category may be taking some sales away from in-store sales, I think we'll get a larger share of those sales than we have in the past.

Anytime you do something like we're doing with V.me, it's a chicken and egg kind of thing. What comes first, all the merchants or all the customers? We are running at a pretty rapid rate, as it relates to putting both on. And I think we'll have a successful start-up this holiday season. And I think that by the middle of the year, we will have a much more robust environment. And by a year from now, we'll be poised to take significant advantage of what we've done.

As it relates to closing the gap in the top 10, I don't like to speak for my customers before they speak for themselves. But I am looking forward to -- and I think you could legitimately look forward to -- hearing a lot more about new additions in the very near future.

JACK CARSKY: At this point we have, probably, time for one more question, Operator.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Thank you, and congratulations, Joe. I appreciate your candor going back to my days following Providian. A couple questions -- one, are there any unique or specific profit aspirations for V.me, other than gaining share in e-commerce? And secondly, decoupled debit; TSYS commented that their fastest-growing debit customer now is a decoupled debit customer. And it's pretty clear to us that the MCX merchants are going to launch with decoupled debit.

So my question is, has something changed in decoupled debit since Capital One failed at that attempt years ago, that would make you a bit more nervous of that product? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I don't think anything that I'm aware of has happened that should precipitate that. And of course that failed because they couldn't bundle transactions. They had to have specific -- and they had to be able to specifically list each transaction, which they were unable to do. As it relates to MCX, I think they have loftiest aspirations, and they probably have a lot of horsepower to work with. I think we are aware of what we're doing -- I mean, we're aware of what they're doing, and they're aware of what we're doing. And we're working hard to compete. And I don't think that that, in itself, is going to define who Visa is or isn't, in the near or the moderate run.

JACK CARSKY: And with that, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your participation today. If you have any follow-up questions, feel free to call Investor Relations.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation on the conference call today. At this time, all parties may disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121114e8av00a9h
  


 HD
 Q3  2012  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,952 words
   PD
25 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa, Inc's fiscal Q3 2012 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD, GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Good afternoon and welcome to Visa, Inc's fiscal third-quarter earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. As always, this call is currently being webcast. It can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. The replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. Powerpoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and, as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. These include set-backs in the global economy and the impact of new financial reform regulations. Additional information concerning these factors is available in our last 10-K on file with the SEC. It can be accessed through the SEC website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed on this call, related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the IR section of our website.

With that, I will turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Jack, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to have the opportunity today to review our third-quarter performance and the progress we continue to make in delivering against our strategy. Visa had another quarter of strong financial performance, posting net operating revenues of $2.6 billion, a 10% increase over the same period last year. After adjusting for our previously announced litigation reserve, net income for the quarter was $1.1 billion, a 20% increase over the same period last year. This equates to adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.56, a 25% increase over the fiscal quarter of 2011.

So with three strong quarters of operational performance behind us, which include insights into both the initial adverse Durbin impacts and our fiscal fourth-quarter services revenues, we are now adjusting our 2012 EPS growth guidance to low 20s. And we continue to deliver our commitment to return excess cash back to shareholders. We used $461 million of our excess cash to repurchase 4 million shares during the fiscal third quarter. Looking ahead, our Board has authorized an additional $1 billion share repurchase program.

You've heard this before, but it's worth repeating. The shift from cash and checks to digital currency is a global trend that we expect to continue well into the future. Today more than 30% of global consumer spending, almost $10 trillion, remains on cash and checks worldwide. Interestingly, despite Visa's success increasing penetration of electronic payments over the past several years, the total opportunity to take share from cash and checks worldwide has actually expanded since our IPO, driven primarily by global population growth and expansion of many emerging economies where electronic payments currently represent a relatively small percentage of personal consumption expenditures.

But we're never content just to benefit from evolving demographics. Visa is taking action to accelerate growth beyond the secular trend. To do so we are focused on building and expanding the entire payments category in every market that we operate. That means in our partnership -- that means in partnership with our financial institution clients, putting more payment products in more people's hands, tapping entirely new market segments with diverse product offerings, expanding the places where Visa products are accepted, and innovating next-generation payment technologies that create a superior payment experience for account holders and add value to financial institutions and merchants.

And as we are successful in expanding the overall payments category, Visa's business benefits through diversity and resiliency, which helped us continue to grow through the past economic cycles. So while we are closely watching economic conditions that could impact Visa's business, including fallout from continued volatility in Europe and softening outlets for both China and Brazil, our underlying business drivers remain strong.

To begin my business review let's first discuss the United States where credit posted yet another strong quarter with payment volumes increasing 10%, Visa's fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit performance in that category. In addition to strength in the overall category, I'm confident we picked up share in credit as we've added new clients and built upon Visa's strong existing client relationships.

Turning to US debit, the situation continues to play out as expected and in line with our guidance for the rest of fiscal 2012 and '13. During the June quarter, Visa's aggregate debit payments volume growth in the US was negative 9% as our clients complied with the April regulatory deadlines. This was driven by the fall off of Interlink payment volumes which came in line with our projections. Meanwhile, Visa debit, which excludes Interlink, posted healthy, mid single-digit payment volume growth which we expect to continue. As predicted during last quarter's call, I am confident Visa experienced the trough for US debit payment volumes during the fiscal quarter. And we are now seeing signs of improved performance in the fourth fiscal quarter.

That being said, and as we have stated previously, we recognize that some debit share loss resulting from this regulation will be permanent. As for implementation of our debit strategies to compete for merchant routing and win issuer business, I will simply say I am pleased with our progress and confident in our long-term position. Our efforts remain on track and our strategies are gaining traction. We are absolutely delivering the value we promised to our merchant and financial institution clients and, equally important, the strategies are delivering on Visa's own financial and operational expectations.

As for the CID, the status is essentially unchanged since our last call. I remain comfortable our actions are appropriate and we continue to be in regular contact with the department providing information as requested. I will keep you updated if and when the situation warrants.

Switching gears, I would like to briefly provide my perspective on the proposed merchant litigation settlement announced earlier this month. We reached a reasonable outcome that ensures the long-term health and competitiveness of the payments industry in the United States. Importantly, our current guidance for fiscal 2012 and '13 fully takes this agreement into account. I am pleased that we have settlements after an extensive process coordinated by court appointed mediators, which have been approved by class representatives, class counsel, and the retailers who filed separate suits. We anticipate these will have support among the retail community in the US because it is a fair and an appropriate compromise for all parties and that the agreement will be approved by the court.

As for the next steps, preliminary court approval of this agreement is expected in the fall, and Visa is preparing to begin implementation in the early part of 2013. Bottom line, we are moving towards ending a seven-year dispute with an important constituency of our client base, merchants. And we are doing so in a reasonable and responsible way. Looking ahead, we are actively looking for opportunities to work collaboratively with the US merchant community to advance our mutual agendas. In particular, we believe that investments we are making in next-generation payment technologies, V.me, mobile payments, and merchant offers, will drive considerable value to merchants.

Now let's shift the discussion to Visa's international business where we continue to focus on driving long-term growth. Breaking down our specific regions, in constant dollars, payment volumes in Asia Pacific grew 13%, Canada at 8%, while SEMEA and Latin America posted gains of 41% and 20% respectively in the June quarter. As I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks, a top priority is building the payments category globally. To that end, we continue to execute a targeted investment strategy in several geographies with significant growth potential, deploying locally tailored acceleration plans to substantially increase Visa's revenue over a five-year horizon. So let me give you a few specific examples to demonstrate our progress.

In Russia, over 80% of consumer spending is still cash based, which presents a significant opportunity. To drive future growth, Visa is intensely focused on expanding usage in everyday spend merchant categories, including supermarkets. A strategy that aligns particularly well with our strong, stable of debit cards in that country. During the most recent quarter, Visa launched acceptance at Magnit, the country's largest grocery chain with more than 5,000 stores. In fact, with the addition of Magnit, Visa now is accepted at the four largest food retail chains in Russia, a major step towards accelerating growth in that country.

At the same time, in the Middle East we are building on our traditionally strong position with Affluent and Shariah compliant credit products working with clients to expand debits. As one example of our success, Visa recently secured a significant multi-product extension with the National Bank of Kuwait. A key element of our strategy is increased investment in local expertise and local engagement. To that end, we recently opened our first offices in Doha and Abu Dhabi, as well as doubled the size of our presence in Dubai to serve clients better across the Middle East and the SEMEA region generally.

In east Africa, a region I recently visited, we are investing now to reap long-term returns. We recently opened a regional headquarters in Nairobi, Kenya. An important opportunity in that geography is using our fundable platform to deploy mobile solutions and drive long-term growth. We are also making steady progress in Rwanda, which offers a case study of how Visa can proactively engage governments and align our own growth agenda with domestic priorities.

In that regard, we are working with the Rwandan government to increase access to and usage of electronic payments in that country. A key priority is financial inclusion and literacy using mobile technology. Additionally, Visa is now processing domestic payments and inter bank ATM withdrawals, an important step forward for this emerging economy. Also, our efforts will help increase tourism volumes from international travelers, a key driver of economic activity and a top government priority. Finally, this effort should be the foundation for our activities in the entire east African region. Expect us to talk to you more about in this the future.

We're also making steady progress in Indonesia, a rapidly expanding economy with a growing affluent middle class and a population fast approaching 250 million. A key element of our strategy here is growing acceptance. To that end, Visa signed a multi-phase multi-year card acceptance promotion with the country's largest petrol chain, Pertamina. With more than 4,000 gas stations nationwide and approximately $30 billion in sales volume annually, the promotion will help expand the acceptance of Visa credit/debit cards over the next few years. Most recently, during the last quarter, CyberSource, Visa's 2010 acquisition, signed a number of deals to accelerate e-commerce acceptance, including one with the national airline, Garuda, to provide payment, gateway, and fraud management services.

Meanwhile in China, I know you are already aware of the World Trade Organization's final report containing the findings of the case between the US and Chinese governments concerning China's domestic electronic payments marketplace. While we are still assessing its implications, we are hopeful the ruling ultimately could provide for more global entrance into China's payment marketplace, although a number of additional steps still need to be taken in the WTO process before we have any clarity or certainty.

Most importantly to Visa, we continue to make strategic investments to expand our existing business in China. To that end, we executed several long-term client partnerships during the quarter, including multi-year extensions with CITIC Bank in China, Minsheng Banking Corporation. We also secured a new relationship with Bank of Communication. Overall our focus is on advancing our partnership with local banks and China union pay to serve consumers and businesses using our existing 78 million co-badge cards when traveling abroad.

In fact, earlier this week, Visa co-sponsored a payment securities symposium with China union pay. The symposium was hosted by the Payment and Clearing Association of China and was under the endorsement of the People's Bank of China. During this event, Ellen Richey, our Chief Enterprise Risk Officer, joined banking executives, regulators and law enforcement in Beijing to speak about Visa's role in payment security in the fast growing Chinese market.

And finally, we are two days away from the start of the 2012 Olympic games. There's a reason that Visa has been a sponsor of the Olympic games for more than a quarter of a century. No sponsorship platform offers a better opportunity to help our clients around the world grow their businesses while also driving incremental transaction revenue for Visa. Over the past 13 Olympic summer games and winter Olympic games, this sponsorship has provided Visa with a global platform to amplify our brand message among a passionate global fan base and drive tangible business results. We work with our clients to tailor their Olympic related activities to address the unique needs of their own business and geography, including card holder acquisition, retention, or increasing usage.

This year, I'm pleased that Visa has engaged a record number of clients in our program with more than 1,000 financial institutions and merchants worldwide activating Olympic related activities, including a large portion from priority growth markets. This represents a 70% increase from our program in Beijing and positions us for a highly successful event over the next two weeks.

So, to wrap up, our strong performance during the fiscal quarter demonstrates the underlying strength and resilience of Visa's business model. We continued to accelerate the migration away from cash and check to electronic payments. We helped our clients grow their core business lines. We expanded our footprint in international markets, both emerging and established. We advanced our innovation agenda, and we took significant steps to resolve critical business issues. As always, I remain highly confident in the future of Visa.

And with that, let me turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. As is my practice, I will begin with some observations and call-outs. First, note that we reported the quarter on an adjusted basis. We eliminated the previously disclosed litigation accruals associated with both the MOU in the merchants litigation, and the preliminary agreement with the individual plaintiffs, since both of these events are covered by our retrospective responsibility plan. These accruals, which totaled $4.1 billion, resulted in a quarterly after-tax loss of $1.8 billion on a GAAP basis. Excluding these litigation accruals, we reported solid earnings per share of $1.56 for the quarter.

Second, the all-in impact from US debit regulation, which includes restructured pricing, incentives, other mitigation strategies and volume loss, cost us about $0.04 in EPS for the quarter. We expect a similar if not slightly higher impact in the next few quarters as more of our debit volume is exposed to lower variable fees and incentive agreements. As we have stated before, this is already incorporated into our guidance.

Third, foreign tax credits resulted in a benefit of $56 million, or $0.08 to our adjusted diluted EPS this quarter. These tax credits were contemplated in our full-year guidance with the amount recognized in the third quarter representing the total for the year.

Fourth, US revenue growth has been supported by five consecutive quarters of double-digit credit payment volume growth, most recently 10% in the quarter. Through the 21 of July, credit payment volume growth has comped at a 9% rate, consistent with a somewhat tepid but sustained US economic recovery.

Fifth, as anticipated, aggregate US debit posted a negative 9% growth rate in the third quarter, led by Interlink payment volume which was off 54%. So far, the month of April has proven to be the trough in debit payment volume loss, and since then, we have seen sequential monthly progress during the quarter in recapturing portions of this Interlink volume. Importantly, Visa debit, which excludes Interlink, continued to post solid mid single-digit payment volume growth.

Sixth, client incentives for the quarter, as a percent of gross revenue, were 19%, consistent with our full year guidance range which is weighted to the back half of the year. Higher incentives had two drivers. First, pricing adjustments linked to our US debit mitigation strategies, which are expected to continue and potentially grow as our merchant and acquirer agreements take hold. And second, certain rest of world incentives, which are not expected to repeat in the fourth quarter.

Lastly, in late May, we received from the IRS a notice of proposed adjustment for our fiscal 2008 federal income-tax return. This notice would disallow the deduction and associated tax benefit related to payments made in 2008 toward the American Express litigation. We disagree with this proposed adjustment. We are comfortable defending our position. And importantly, we made no changes to our tax estimates relating to this deduction or any similar deductions for covered litigation in subsequent fiscal years. Resolution of these types of tax matters generally take some time to conclude. Now, let's turn to the numbers.

As is our practice, I will cover our global payment volume and processed transaction trends for the quarter, followed by our results through July 21. I'll then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal third quarter and conclude with our guidance outlook for the balance of fiscal 2012. Global payment volume growth for the June quarter, in constant dollars, was 6%, down from the March quarter's normalized 10% after adjusting for the leap year.

Several callouts. First, combined credit growth for both the US and rest of world held steady versus a normalized prior quarter. Both produced double-digit growth. Second, rest of world debit growth was unchanged at 28%, same as the normalized second-quarter rate. Third, more recently through July 21, US payment volume growth was flat, comprised of 9% credit growth and minus 7% for debit. Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 14% constant dollar growth rate in the June quarter, which compares to a normalized 15% rate in the second quarter. The US grew 11%, and the rest of world 16%.

We continue to see very strong results from our Asia Pacific, Latin America, and SEMEA regions. Through July 21, cross-border volumes on a constant dollar basis grew 12% with a US growth rate of 9% and the rest of world at 13%. Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled 13.1 billion in the fiscal third quarter, a 1% increase over the prior year period. A debit-led decline of 3% in the US was offset by 18% growth in rest of world. For the month of July through the 21st, process transaction growth was a positive 2%, driven by an improving trajectory and US process transaction growth. Separately, CyberSource reported 1.3 billion transactions for the period, a 25% increase over the prior year.

Three call-outs. First, as expected, the brunt of US debit regulation is being felt by our Interlink product where transaction growth will continue to be negative until we lap the implementation of the rules next year. Second, Visa process transactions continue to grow at double-digit rates for US credit and rest of world. Finally, although there appear to be darkening economic clouds, our global revenue drivers remain healthy with no clear signals of a downturn at this point in time.

Now turning to the income statement, net operating revenue in the quarter was $2.6 billion, a 10% increase year-over-year. After hedges, there was no meaningful foreign exchange impact on net revenue in the quarter. Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.2 billion, up 15% over the prior year period. This reflects strong payment volume growth in the March quarter, the revenue from which is recorded in the June quarter. Data processing revenue was $1 billion, up 17% over the prior year's quarter, based on solid growth rates for CyberSource transactions and Visa process transactions outside of the US, as well as competitive pricing actions that became effective in the quarter. As a reminder, this fixed acquirer network fee initiated in the third quarter is booked to data processing revenue. Offsetting merchant and acquirer incentives are reflected in the contra revenue incentive line, which I will cover in a moment.

Turning to a different metric, we saw a step-up in the gross revenue data processing yield, due in part to strategic pricing adjustments, but also driven by the steep decline in Interlink transactions in the quarter, which are, by far, our lowest yielding product. International transaction revenue was up 13% to $748 million, reflecting continued strength in cross-border volumes with low double-digit growth rates in the US and mid-teen growth in the rest of world, as measured on a constant dollar basis.

As I highlighted earlier, client incentives for the quarter came in at 19%. The fourth fiscal quarter will also see an elevated level, but is likely to be slightly less than Q3. Together, these incentive levels are consistent with our full-year outlook of 17% to 18%. While we are not yet prepared to offer a more detailed view of fiscal 2013 incentives, we do expect a modest increase from the 2012 level of 17% to 18%.

Total adjusted operating expenses for the quarter were $1.1 billion, up 10% from the prior year. This was primarily due to higher personnel expenses and costs associated with our investments in growth related technology projects. Marketing expenses of $242 million reflect a heavier weighting of spend in the second half of the year, timed with the global promotion of the London summer Olympics. Our adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 58%, bringing our fiscal year to date to 61%, consistent with our guidance of about 60% for the year. The third quarter's margin is in line with our expectation for expense timing as we realize a second half ramp-up in incentives, investment spending and marketing associated with the summer Olympics.

Capital expenditures were $108 million in the quarter and are $235 million year to date. Given our current guidance of $350 million to $400 million for the year, we will likely come in at the lower end of that range. Our adjusted tax rate for Q3 was 29.2%, and as I mentioned at the outset, was positively impacted by a $56 million benefit from foreign tax credits. The amount recognized represents the total for the year.

During the quarter, we spent $461 million to repurchase 4 million shares at an average price of $115.51 per share. Our Board recently authorized a new repurchase plan totaling $1 billion, effective through July of 2013. Separate from the share repurchase program, on July 24, we added an incremental $150 million to the escrow account. The fourth quarter event will reduce the B share conversion ratio to 0.4206, there by reducing the A equivalent share count by 1.2 million shares. At the end of the June quarter, we had 670 million shares of class A common stock on an as converted basis. The adjusted weighted average number of fully diluted shares for the third quarter totaled 675 million.

Finally, we are making only one adjustment to our outstanding 2012 fiscal guidance other than the minor notes I have addressed. Given where we are year to date, we are eliminating high teens from our EPS growth guidance and going with just low 20s. As is our custom, we plan to fully address our 2013 guidance on our fourth-quarter earnings call.

And with that operator, we are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I was hoping you could flesh out the steps you have taken now that we're three months further in with respect to the debit acquiring fee. You have talked about some of the effects but what's actually happened, how much of that has been implemented and could you talk about how that has flowed through the numbers?

JOE SAUNDERS: I'm not exactly sure about the specific question, but there were two significant things that we did. One was the pricing, and one was the paid, or the debit card change. From a fixed pricing point of view that's been fully implemented. From a paid, or a debit card point of view, that has been significantly implemented, but it's being implemented in phases, and it will take a few more months to get it fully done. Remember, however, that we retained the Interbank logo on the majority of our largest customers and so none of that volume, as long as the Interlink logo is there, will go through paid.

OPERATOR: Dan Perlin, RBC Capital Markets.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: What I was thinking is, now that you have at least arrived in the settlement proposal, I'm wondering if you're thinking about the utilization of your free cash flow differently from what we've seen over the past several years as you funded the escrow account. Secondly, as you talk about the investments that you think are going to be important to the merchants, when we look at the incremental margins in the quarter versus for the past couple of years, we're at a low level, or certainly close to trough level. And I'm wondering if we should be thinking about the investment going forward at these more incremental margin levels.

JOE SAUNDERS: We have no change whatsoever in our philosophy of returning excess cash to shareholders. To the extent that we are not placing cash in the escrow account, the alternative would be open market repurchases of our A shares, and that is exactly what we intend to focus on. So no change on that front. As further evidenced by the approval by the Board to authorize a new $1 billion share repurchase program.

Second, with regards to margins, let me reframe that. Last year we delivered about a 60% operating margin. That is our guidance for this year. The lower margins that -- operating margins you're seeing in this quarter and we'll see again in the next quarter are all consistent with our guidance of about 60% for this year. As you may recall from our -- at the beginning of year earnings call, beginning of fiscal year, we indicated that it would be about 60% for the year, but that we would be a little higher in the first half of the year, and a little lower in the second half of the year, largely due to a ramp-up in technology investments and a weighted marketing spend for the Olympics timed with the second half. So this year, past year, about 60%, and we'll let you know what '13 looks like in another quarter.

OPERATOR: Darrin Peller, Barclays.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: You said in the past that you'd expect an acceleration of revenue growth in fiscal year 2013 versus 2012 levels. Can you comment on the main drivers of that, especially if you expect incentives to be sequentially higher year-over-year?

BYRON POLLITT: What we said was, or meant to communicate, was that this was a comment around the implementation of the Durbin rules, and that what we expected is that once we had annualized the impact of Durbin, which will take us through the first two fiscal quarters of next year, once we had lapped those rules, and the Durbin impacts were in our base, at that point, everything else being equal, we would expect an acceleration, particularly in our -- specifically focused on our debit business, because we've got the Durbin impact now in our base. That's what we meant by that. Everything else being equal, we would expect to see it. Again, with regards to revenue growth for next year, we'll be much more specific about that on the next quarter call.

OPERATOR: Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: To follow up to that, does that mean your fiscal '13 guidance signal is not relating to overall revenue growth, it's just relating to the growth in your debit business in the US? The follow-up to that is that you indicated that your growth trends are not showing much effect from macro issues, and you've had a string of pretty good incremental wins that are presumably offsetting what appears to be a general slowing in retail spending. Is there any way to quantify the recent contribution in your growth rate from new wins that are occurring as an offset to the cyclical pressures that are out there?

BYRON POLLITT: The guidance, the specific quantitative guidance we have for next year, for '13, number one, is EPS growth in the high teens. Number two, incentives that are modestly, slightly higher than what we expect to experience this year. That's the extent to which we've guided to '13. And remember, when we said we expect revenues to generate, that's everything else being equal, we expect to have debit, the US debit part of the business annualize halfway in through the year.

Honestly, to give a much more informed perspective on revenue growth for next year, we'll wait until the fourth quarter call, at which point we'll have much better visibility of what we're looking at going in. Meanwhile, we're reconfirming the guidance that we currently have for fiscal year '13.

With regards to incremental wins, you can say we have some, certainly on the credit side. We don't have -- we have the opposite, so to speak, courtesy of the US Government on the debit side. In balancing those and looking at the current underlying revenue drivers of cross-border, volume growth, transaction growth, inside the US, outside the US, that's really what's underpinning our guidance comments for '13 for balance of year, and for '13 to date.

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't think that there is a significant amount of traction yet on some of the credit wins in the United States. I don't believe that, that's where the growth is coming from. It certainly is cause for optimism as it relates to our credit volumes going forward. I would also reference a lot of our wins outside of the United States, which are picking up steam as we talked about and will provide revenue. I'm sure, as Byron has pointed out, that everybody understands that a lot of our '13 guidance was a reflection on how we would fair given the Durbin legislation. Right now our metrics in every other regard are quite strong, and we will, as Byron said, address our expectations next quarter.

OPERATOR: Glenn Fodor, Morgan Stanley.

GLENN FODOR, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I applaud your comments about working more collaboratively with merchants. The fact is we're just now hopefully turning the chapter on a relationship that's had tension involved for many, many years so this is a big step forward for both sides, a positive step forward. But besides the technology that you alluded to earlier, how difficult do you think it will be to change your overall cultural approach and general relationship overall with the merchants, from a very high level, aside from the actual product?

JOE SAUNDERS: There's been -- I suppose you could characterize the last seven years as a contentious relationship, but the fact of the matter is, when you look at the history of the usage of electronic payments, it's been growing quite rapidly during that period of time. I would characterize it as a love/hate relationship. Something that you sometimes can't do with and what generally you can't do without.

I think that we are in a position to reach out and do much more going forward, particularly because of the technology that we're embracing, that will bring a new level of value to the merchant community, and I'm very, very optimistic about it. We work with the merchant community through all of this, even as you talk about what's going on right now, or as certain merchants may complain about this or that, remember, we have incentive contracts with a significant number of them, and so we are working with them. We're dealing with them on a daily basis, and we think that those relations will improve as time goes on. And certainly that's going to be our endeavor.

OPERATOR: John Williams, UBS.

JOHN WILLIAMS, ANALYST, UBS: Very quickly, Byron, I wanted to get more detail on your comment that you said you are seeing no clear signs of a slowdown. I think if you look at the other folks in the industry, American Express is the one that comes to mind, do you have anything to say regarding the affluent calling out high end versus low end differences that you might have seen, maybe travel and hotels or other somewhat discretionary verticals that you might have seen some change behavior in over the last few months?

BYRON POLLITT: I think it's too early to make that conclusion. John, what we do is watch -- we break down the quarter, month to month, and there can be some very wide differentials within a given quarter. Let me give you an example. In the quarter just completed, for US credit, we grew 8% in the month of April, 12% in the month of May, 10% in the month of June. All in, it delivered 10% growth.

When we look at the monthly progression over the past couple of quarters, these are all -- they bounce around month to month, but they're all pretty healthy. I think the hardest part of a trend to call is the beginning, and given the kind of healthy growth rates we're experiencing, we just don't see a discernible trend, but I promise you we will update everyone quarter by quarter and we'd be happy to go through monthly progressions to help give a better flavor for this. So I'm not saying it's not happening. I'm just saying we're not seeing it yet.

OPERATOR: [Sinjin Wong], JPMorgan.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT, ANALYST: Wanted to ask a few questions on the litigation settlement. What's the process in dealing with the merchants that opt out and also what's the plan, I call it the over funded litigation escrow? How are you going to deal with that as the class B shares come unlocked? Lastly, maybe, don't be mad Jack, what's the -- in terms of if surcharge, no surcharge rule going away, how much volume and earnings do you estimate would be at risk by allowing surcharging in the US?

JOE SAUNDERS: I'll answer the question about surcharging, then I'm going to let our counsel who watched over this litigation for the past seven years make some comments about the rest of your question. We think that the position that we struck, and if you look at the MOU and you look at all the details of surcharging and how it can be affected and what the caps are and so forth and so on, we think it's a fair settlement, and we do not look at surcharging, per se as it relates to this litigation, as something that will significantly affect us at all. That's our feeling about it, that's our position. We could talk about this for hours, and, of course, we have, and we did before we agreed to do anything, and we'll just to have let it unfold. But I think it's a -- I think that the settlement is a reasonable settlement for both sides.

JOSH FLOUM, GENERAL COUNSEL, VISA INC.: As to the process going forward, we are very confident that the court is going to approve this settlement, and the reason I say this is, this case has been pending for seven years, and during a great deal of that time, there has been a court-ordered mediation process with two mediators and the involvement of the court. And at the end of that time all of the class counsel, the class representatives, the individual merchants, as well as the financial institution defendants, have agreed to the deal. It's a fair and reasonable deal. Therefore, we're comfortable that at the end of the day the court is going to approve the settlement.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to the unlocking of the shares, we've had a lot of practice with the unlocking of the C shares, and as a result, we are very confident that when that time comes, we'll be able to manage that with barely a ripple with regards to impact on stock price.

OPERATOR: Jason Kupferberg, Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Why don't I pick up on that question if I could and thinking out beyond the court approval coming in the fall that you guys expect, can you guys clarify what sort of true legal recourse the retailers that choose to opt out of the settlement, what kind of legal recourse they actually have? Obviously a couple of the biggest have publicly announced that they do not support the settlement which probably doesn't surprise anybody, but if you can just clarify for all of us what kind of legal recourse they actually have when and if they formally opt out that would be great.

BYRON POLLITT: The way the deal is structured is that opt-outs, and you always expect a couple in a class action lawsuit, can sue only for monetary relief. There's something called a non-opt-out class for injunctive relief. What that means is that all of Visa and MasterCard's rules in existence as of the time of approval are released, both by the opt-ins, and the opt-outs.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane, Deutsche Bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I want to ask about the mid-single-digit growth in the Visa debit line. I thought that number would be a little bit higher. Has that trended down over the last couple quarters, and if it has, what might be driving a little bit slower growth in Visa debit? Is it a move towards PIN, loss of share, Durbin?

JOE SAUNDERS: We always expected to have some deterioration in the magnitude of that growth number. As a matter of fact, it's doing better than we had originally anticipated. Remember, when the whole Durbin thing came, and you had a number of debit cards with rewards associated with them, it drove financial institutions to promote it much more heavily. It encouraged consumers to use it considerably more, and so part of the whole Durbin legislation was a little bit of a damper on debit card transactions in general. Not that they were going to stop. It's just that the rate of growth was going to slow down, so we're actually quite happy.

BYRON POLLITT: I will just add a little quantitative perspective. We were, in the fourth fiscal quarter of '11, we were kind of at the upper end of mid single digits in that category. We've remained in that range for Q's 1, 2, and 3, and if you look at Q2 on a normalized basis, pulling out the leap year, the growth rates for Q2 and Q3 are identical. I would say this is -- with the overlay of what Joe said in terms of a modest level of impact, it has been relatively sustained during this fiscal year.

OPERATOR: Wayne Johnson, Raymond James.

WAYNE JOHNSON, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Could you give us an update on how V.me is progressing for commercial launch? Is Visa still on track with that? And if you could provide initial expectations, how we should see this rollout this fall.

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes, I think we are right on track with the click to buy and alias capability that we suggest that we would roll out by the end of the year. It is up, it is live, it is running. We currently have six relatively large merchants on the system. We do not have a significant number of consumers at this particular point in time, but we're on schedule with several financial institutions to begin that in the very near future.

Right now, we're still anticipating a holiday season rollout of the project, and, of course, it will gain a lot more traction in 2013 than it will at the beginning of 2012. But we're happy with the progress. We're happy with the performance. We're happy with where we are, both with the merchant community and with financial institutions.

OPERATOR: Tim Willi, Wells Fargo.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Could you talk a bit about anything you've seen in Latin America? Looking at the regional data constant currency that one seemed to show more of a slow down, at least for the June data, while all the other regions held steady. I'm curious if there might be something relative to that economy or country that impacted those numbers that might be in play for a couple more quarters. And then if I could slip one other in.

Any thoughts around the average credit ticket in the US, which had been climbing steadily out of the recession, and now seems to be in a slightly negative position. Is that fuel, or is there something else you might think would account for that trend in the last couple of quarters?

BYRON POLLITT: Let me start with the Latin America. With regards to currency, first of all, let me just mention to the group that we do hedge exposures. So whatever impact, with the exception of two countries, which I will turn to in a moment, we can dampen the impact on FX.

With regards to currency specific countries, we are seeing a depreciation in Argentina and a continued depreciation in Venezuela. The outlook for de-valuation I would say is -- nothing is a certainty, but I would -- at some point, it looks like we're heading to that, and you can't -- there's no economic hedge for either one of those two currencies. So is that a bit of a drag on our Latin America business? Yes. Is it hedgable? No. And so -- but that's baked into the numbers we've reported.

With regards to any other country callout, I would say Brazil has tempered a bit. There has been a tax placed on credit usage for cross-border travel, which has definitely put a bit of a break on the exuberance of the Brazilians to see the world. That tax is not applied to debit, but it is applied to credit. I would say overall, particularly the rest of Latin America, that the business is strong, it has very healthy growth rates, unimpeded by shifts in currency.

Average credit ticket. No substantive change in that metric for the moment. But if would you like something more specific, I'm sure if you called our IR group, Jack or Victoria would be able to give you something a little more specific.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: One question for counsel relating to a previous answer. When you say opt-outs can sue only for monetary relief, does that include relief from interchange? And secondly, for Byron, the yield on processed transactions in the quarter jumped significantly which was expected but it was a lot more than what we were looking for. Do you think that the yield posted in the quarter is a good one to think about going forward?

BYRON POLLITT: Let me start with the yield question. The yield increase in the data processing category absolutely was expected. Remember a couple of things as perspective, that as part of our Durbin mitigation strategies, we implemented a fixed acquiring network fee, which is completely captured in the DP category. We also reduced variable transaction fees, which are also included in the DP category. But we then introduced a degree of incentive offset, and that appears in a completely different line. While the gross yield for DP goes up, it's not a true picture, and instead, you really ought to be looking at net yield, which I will come back to in a minute, as it relates to Visa, Inc. revenue yield.

With regard to the DP yield, there's one other factor involved, which has an impact on the calculation, which is our lowest yielding product is Interlink. And that has borne the brunt of the loss as we conform to the new rules. As Interlink moves out of the denominator, in terms of yield calculation, it has the least impact on the numerator and automatically the yield moves up. You have both of those indicators going forward.

There are a number of factors impacting the DP line. Debit is one, including Interlink. CyberSource books into the DP line. I think what it is going to take is the next two or three-quarters or so, in order for us to kind of reset what the base trend lines ought to be projected off of with regards to data processing. I wish could I be more helpful, but I think it's going to take another couple of quarters before this sorts out.

When you put all of this together, and you look at the Visa, Inc. revenue yield, of which DP is an important component, but that captures the incentives, in the way that we capture and measure yield, our yield for the third fiscal quarter of '12 is actually flat with the yield we experienced in the third quarter of '11, fiscal year '11. So a lot of moving parts. This is where we're sorting out, and I'm afraid it's going to take two or three-quarters before we can reset the different trend lines on the different fee categories.

JOSH FLOUM: As to your first question, opt-out merchants can only sue for monetary damages, and, by the way, those claims would be covered under our retrospective responsibility plan. Claims for things like rate relief or interchange reductions, that's in the nature of injunctive relief and opt-outs cannot make those claims.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: It sounds like you guys are still seeing some reasonably good underlying organic growth globally. I was just wondering how we reconcile that with the darkening clouds commentary you mentioned before. Then secondarily, I was just wondering if you could talk about how the tax benefit will be utilized in terms of the litigation escrow reserve bill.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to the litigation of how the tax impact will be utilized, there's a different treatment for GAAP, and there's a different treatment for cash flow. For GAAP, we go ahead, as soon as it's probable and estimable, which we concluded it was, we go ahead and put that through the income statement. So on a GAAP basis, that's now behind us.

With regards to the cash flow impact, you can't record the deduction on your return until you actually make a payment. And so the payments associated with this are potentially sometime out, and so there will be no cash flow impact this year associated with that once the agreement is -- once we're further along, much further along in the litigation process, we'll be in a position to actually make payments, at which point we can then take the tax deduction. We'll give you some perspective on that on the fourth quarter call.

JOE SAUNDERS: As it relates to your first question, I mentioned in my comments that the demographics of the world are changing, the number of places that accept electronic payments are increasing, and so there is some counter cyclical things that occur and allow us to build volume even when economies are slowing down to some extent. That's always the difficulty we have in calling out what's going on in the world, or what do we see or how do we measure or know exactly what's happening, and it's tough, because more and more people have access to electronic payments, and more and more locations accept electronic payments. And those have to be factored into the equation.

JACK CARSKY: At this point we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Glenn Greene, Oppenheimer.

GLENN GREENE, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I'll just ask on the US debit volume trends you sort of saw through May, I think you gave us an update it was negative 8 end of the quarter, negative 9, and encouragingly it looks like it improved in July to negative 7. The question, do you think we're sort of in a sustained, improved trajectory? Obviously the pricing efforts are having some effect here, but where do you think we go from here?

BYRON POLLITT: We're in uncharted waters. We like the notion that it's an improving trajectory, and honestly, we'll know better how competitors respond to our strategies and I think this is still very early days in terms of trying to project how this will play out. Remember, the rules only went into effect April 1. So we've only had, what, three months and three weeks of operation under these new rules, and to date, we're pleased with how our strategies have taken hold to start, and we'll report on how well they continue to perform in the upcoming quarters.

JOE SAUNDERS: Without making an absolute prediction on the heels of what Byron just said, I will remind you what I said in the remarks I made earlier, and that is, there will be a permanent deterioration in our debit card volume as a result of the Durbin legislation. There's absolutely no question about it. When we talk about waiting and seeing, we're kind of waiting to see where it gets to but I don't expect to be close to where we were when the whole thing started.

JACK CARSKY: Well, that wraps it up. Thank you all for joining us today, and thank to you Josh Floum for his comments earlier, special guest start. If anybody has any follow-up questions, feel free to call Victoria or myself.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference call. The call has concluded. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120808e87p00a6p
  


 HD
 Q2  2012  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,456 words
   PD
2 May 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa's Inc.'s fiscal Q2 2012 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen only mode into the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Good afternoon and welcome to Visa these Inc.'s fiscal second-quarter earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast and can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. The replay will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing hightlights of today's commentary was posted to our site prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and as result of variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. These include setbacks in the global economy and the impact of new financial reform regulations.

Additional information concerning those factors is available in our last 10-K on file with the SEC. It can be accessed through the SEC website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our site.

And with that I will turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Jack, and as always thank you for joining us today. Visa delivered another quarter of strong financial performance, posting net operating revenues of $2.6 billion, a 15% increase over the same period last year. These revenue gains were driven by double-digit payments volume growth globally, continued outperformance of credit spend worldwide, and strong cross-border activity.

Adjusted net income for the quarter was $1.1 billion, a 23% increase over the same period last year. This equates to adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.60, a 30% increase over the second fiscal quarter of 2011.

Our performance reaffirms Visa's solid business foundation and strategy, including our diversified product and service offerings, our strong client relationships, and our commitment to accelerating growth in key markets worldwide.

With two strong quarters under our belt and insight into our fiscal third-quarter service revenues, we are upgrading our guidance for fiscal 2012 by raising EPS growth to high-teens to low-20s and reaffirming our 2013 guidance.

Visa's Global business continues to expand at a healthy pace. A strong March quarter followed the solid results we posted in our first quarter and will drive service revenues in the current June quarter.

During the March quarter Visa's credit and debit payment volumes worldwide grew 14% and 7%, respectively. Cross-border volume also posted healthy gains, increasing 16% globally. Processed transactions grew 8%.

In the US payment volumes increased 6% for all products. Our star performer for fiscal second-quarter was credit. Building on that we continue to invest in new and expanded long-term credit relationships with our largest US clients to drive growth in our core business. In fact, of the largest US issuers that consider multiyear partnership agreements, we now have nine of the top 10 signed into fiscal 2015 and beyond. From a volume perspective that equates to more than three-quarters of our US credit volume secured into 2015 and beyond.

During the March quarter we also continued to have success winning important new credit business from multiple US issuers. On the call brand front I am pleased that Visa has finalized a multiyear extension of our successful credit co-branded partnership with Alaska Airlines, a portfolio that benefits from a large number of affluent cardholders and a high cross-border usage.

Additionally, we are now seeing early results of our previously announced contract with United Airlines. As a reminder, the recent merger of United and Continental Airlines resulted in the consolidation of their credit card portfolios under Mileage Plus. And the combined entity has chosen Visa as the exclusive brand for newly issued Mileage Plus cards.

As for acceptance, we are expanding our popular Visa Easy Payment service, our no signature required program in the United States for selected merchant categories. Under our current program, which is available to the majority of merchant categories in the US, merchants have the option to complete purchases up to $25 without requiring a cardholder's signature or PIN.

Building on the success of that program we see an opportunity to help our merchant and financial institution partners better serve their customers, reduce their costs and grow their businesses. That is why beginning in October 2012 we are raising the limit to $50 for discount stores and supermarkets with the intent of expanding this service to additional merchant categories over time.

Now let's turn our attention to Visa's debit business in the US where the new regulations are now in full effect. After more than a year of thoughtful planning we have moved beyond the April 1 full compliance deadline. The next several months will be dynamic and highly competitive, but I'm confident with our position and comprehensive strategies.

So far the situation is playing out as we expected and in-line with our updated guidance for fiscal 2012, as well as our guidance for fiscal 2013. During the March quarter US aggregate debit payment volumes slowed to 2% growth and, as expected, has continued to decline in April. Interlink is bearing the brunt of the regulatory impact.

To really understand what is happening in our debit business it is critical to look at our two products, Visa Debit and Interlink independently. Visa Debit, also known as Visa CheckCard, saw modest, albeit slowing payments volume growth during the March quarter. This slowdown resulted largely from US issuers deemphasizing debit reward programs in their own marketing activities.

Turning to Interlink, we posted negative payment volume growth in each month of the March quarter. More recently between the compliance deadline of April 1 and April 28, Interlink payment volume has experienced notable deterioration. Keep in mind though that in the March quarter Interlink contributed less than 10% of US debit revenue and about 2% of Visa Inc.'s overall revenue, and was our lowest yielding product in the US market.

We believe we will experience the greatest impact to US debit payment volumes and recalibration of marketshare during our fiscal third quarter. Looking ahead, as our revised debit strategies steadily gain traction, we expect to see improving trajectory in our fiscal 2012 fourth quarter.

For one, the new regulations provided us with an opportunity to add Interlink to existing cards that currently carry our competitor's brand. More importantly, our comprehensive integrated debit strategy also focuses on winning issuer placement and incenting routing decisions.

On the issuer side, not only have we maintained all of our major issuer relationships for Visa Debit, we signed 14 of our 15 largest US debit issuers to agreements that go until at least fiscal 2015 with the majority spanning beyond that.

As for our strategies to compete for routing decisions, our incentive program for merchants is on track. We have taken a tailored and surgical approach to win strategic volume and offer competitive incentives to merchants. Overall, while we are still at the earliest stages, I'm confident that our comprehensive debit strategies are working and put Visa in a position to compete effectively in the redefined US debit market.

Of course, in any period of substantive change ongoing communication and clarification with key stakeholders is essential. To that end we have been directly engaged with clients, merchants, policymakers and other interested parties that share our desire for a healthy, competitive and viable debit segment in the US.

On March 13, prior to the April 1 implementation date, the US Department of Justice Antitrust Division issued a civil investigative demand requesting additional information about PIN authenticated Visa Debit and elements of our new debit strategies, including the fixed acquirer fee.

In March we met with the department twice and provided materials in response to the CID. We are confident our actions are appropriate and that our response to the DOJ supports that. But in a business as complex as ours, the department's request is not unexpected. Visa has received four other requests for information from the department since 2007, each of which took from nine to almost 24 months to complete. All have been resolved with our full cooperation.

We are continuing to provide materials and cooperate with the department. I will keep you updated if and when the situation warrants.

So I will end my debit-related comments where I started. The impact of the regulation in the US has been significant, but almost exactly as we planned for. I am confident we fully scoped the impact of the regulation. Our updated guidance for the rest of fiscal 2012, as well as our guidance for fiscal 2013, take everything I have discussed into account.

Bottom line, we are resetting our baseline economics for debit in the US and positioning Visa to grow from here. And as I have said throughout this process we are fully engaged with our clients. We are focused on their needs and we are moving forward.

Turning our attention outside the United States, we are steadily expanding Visa's international business and are ahead of our stated goal of driving 50% of revenue from international geographies by 2015. In fact, our international geographies posted healthy payment volume gains of 15% on a constant dollar basis in the December quarter, driving approximately 64% of Visa's revenue growth this quarter, and now represent 47% of Visa's net revenue.

Our Latin American region has experienced nine consecutive quarters with payment volume growth on a constant dollar basis exceeding 20%. In fact, the March quarter delivered a solid 25% growth rate.

We are seeing particularly good success in Brazil where we have reached an agreement with a large Brazilian bank that has traditionally maintained the majority of its business with one of our largest competitors. With this new agreement we estimate that 50% of that client's card portfolio will be Visa branded in the next few years.

We also recently reached an agreement with all of our major clients in Brazil that will dramatically increase the number of transactions over VisaNet. Today about 63% of Visa's transactions in Brazil get routed over VisaNet. With this agreement, over 90% of our Brazilian transactions will route over VisaNet starting in the next few quarters.

This important agreement directly advances one of our strategic goals, ensuring that a greater share of our transactions are processed on VisaNet.

Simply put, carrying our own transactions on VisaNet delivers greater revenue to Visa, and just as importantly, it allows Visa to deliver the overall benefits of the network and of our services, including better fraud detection and improved transaction quality, to cardholders, merchants and our bank customers.

At the same time, our Asia-Pacific and CEMEA regions delivered a strong combined 16% payment volume growth for the two regions during the March quarter. This performance was driven by continued execution of our locally tailored growth strategies, which includes increasing penetration and usage of debit and premium credit products, expansion of our acceptance footprint, and driving cross-border transactions.

And to build on that, we signed several additional deals that will drive future growth in these rapidly expanding regions.

On the innovation front, we have taken several steps to bring new products and solutions to market. Our innovation investments and acquisitions in CyberSource, PlaySpan and Fundamo are paying off and are allowing us to execute on our vision to introduce the next generation of commerce and electronic payments.

This past quarter we reached agreements with some of the world's largest mobile network operators and mobile device manufacturers to extend Visa's payment functionality to mobile subscribers.

Vodafone, the second largest mobile operator in the world, plans to develop a virtual wallet with a Visa mobile prepaid account preloaded. The wallet will be offered to 390 million Vodafone mobile subscribers in more than 30 countries. This agreement is the largest of its kind between a mobile operator and a global payments network.

Orange Telecom has agreed to offer their customers in seven geographies across Africa and the Middle East a Visa prepaid account linked to their mobile phone number. At the same time, we continue to lead the way for broad adoption of near field communication technology.

Our previously announced agreements to license payWave technology to Google Wallet and Isis are two prominent examples. And we are actively engaged with handset manufacturers as they begin to deliver NFC-enabled devices to the marketplace.

Examples of our progress from the most recent quarter include an agreement with Intel Corporation, which announced plans to make Visa payWave the standard payment application for Intel's soon-to-be launched mobile handset devices. Additionally, Nokia's new Lumia smartphone was tested in our labs and recently certified for use with Visa payWave.

To further support issuers who want to advance NFC programs we executed a deal with Oberthur Technologies to roll out Visa's mobile provisioning service, which provides issuers with a secure way to manage and provision credentials on any mobile device.

It has been two years since we made the decision to acquire CyberSource, and I'm pleased to say that quarter after quarter CyberSource continues to deliver exceptional growth and expand its e-commerce business around the world. For the most recent quarter billable transactions totaled 1.3 billion, growing 26% versus the same period a year ago.

At the time of the acquisition we saw opportunity to further accelerate CyberSource growth by investing in that business and by a co-selling Visa processing services and CyberSource merchant gateway and fraud services. For example, in AP and CEMEA we have successfully sold integrated solutions to major financial institutions, including gateway services and direct connect to VisaNet.

Meanwhile, in Latin America, Cielo, which is one of the largest acquirer of processors in Brazil, with approximately 70% of e-commerce volume in that country, announced its partnership with CyberSource to provide fraud management solutions to Brazilian e-commerce merchants. These examples demonstrate the effectiveness of Visa and CyberSource together, and we will continue to invest in this business to drive future growth.

We continue to expect solid results in this part of our business as e-commerce growth remains strong in the US and internationally.

Perhaps one of the best examples to date of how Visa's acquisition assets are helping us introduce a new payment service is an agreement signed last week with Maxis, the largest telecommunications company in Malaysia. By combining Fundamo and CyberSource capabilities, we are providing Maxis with an integrated payment solution for use in set-top boxes that will enable consumers to purchase digital goods. Together Fundamo and CyberSource fill the commerce need for a simple account check-out and authorization process.

I will close with perhaps the most comprehensive example of how we are a leader in the next generation of commerce, VDotMe. As a reminder, VDotMe is our next-generation digital wallet service and global acceptance market, and another example of how we are applying our technology and expertise to deliver solutions that will benefit financial institutions, merchants and consumers.

A year ago I shared our vision for a service that would meet the evolving ways and places people are transacting by enabling customers to use one way to pay, regardless of where they are or what device they use, while also delivering value-added services beyond payments, like personalized offers and alerts. It was a big idea, but one I knew we could deliver on.

Today I am pleased to share that VDotMe is becoming reality. The closed employee beta program I highlighted during last quarter's earnings call exceeded our expectations, and we are now applying those learnings as we open up VDotMe in public beta tests with selected merchants.

This week we are going live in beta with our first e-commerce merchant [racutensbuyback.com]. This is the first in a series of e-commerce merchants we expect to go live with between now and peak season. Our immediate priority is to drive toward consumer adoption, which will require engagement with both merchants and financial institutions. Bringing these groups together for a common purpose is a long-standing core competency for Visa, and we are already making good progress.

On the issuer side, we know our clients are looking to deliver products and services that meet the needs and expectations of their increasingly digital customers, and we need to demonstrate that Visa is offering the best solution. As of now we already have several large and midsize clients poised to offer VDotMe and are engaged in productive conversations with several additional clients.

In parallel, we need to bring additional merchants on board. To that end our merchant sales teams across Visa, CyberSource and PlaySpan are moving quickly to build the VDotMe footprint. I anticipate that by the holiday shopping season we will have enough merchants onboard to hold a full consumer launch in the US. It is an ambitious agenda and flawless execution will be critical. I have every reason to believe we will be successful.

So to sum up the examples I have highlighted today demonstrate that Visa is building off of our strong foundation, adapting to change and moving ahead. While the environment we operate in is both highly competitive and dynamic, we remain unwavering in our commitment to our clients, expansion of our core business, ongoing innovation and our guidance.

Overall, I am confident that Visa will be a strong globally oriented growth company as we move ahead. And with that let me turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. As is my practice, I will begin with some overall observations and callouts. First, note that we recorded the quarter on an adjusted basis, having eliminated the positive effect to earnings from the remeasurement of our net deferred tax liabilities due to the change in state tax rate. This remeasurement accounted for an incremental $0.31 to GAAP EPS. We also saw a benefit in the quarter from the catch-up effect of the lower ongoing state tax rate that accounted for another $0.05.

Turning to our actual year-to-date results, the adjusted tax rate now reflects a run rate consistent with our full-year guidance. Second, Visa's 15% net revenue growth in the second quarter was once again broad-based and encouraging with solid 10% growth in the US, and an even more impressive 21% growth rate in rest of world.

Third, US revenue growth has been supported by four consecutive quarters of double-digit credit payment volume growth. Most recently through 28 of April credit payment volume growth has comped at a very healthy 11% rate, consistent with continued US economic recovery.

Fourth, as expected and fully contemplated in our 2012 guidance, aggregate US debit growth, though modestly positive for the March quarter, will turn negative in the June and September quarters. The impact of regulatory changes, primarily on Interlink volumes, picked up momentum during the March quarter and accelerated in April.

As Joe mentioned at the outset, these trends will need to annualize before we see a resumption of positive growth in this US product category.

Fifth, client incentives for the quarter as a percent of gross revenue were 16%, below our full-year guidance, but in-line with our expectations for the first half of the fiscal year. We expect higher incentive levels in the second half of the year as US debit-related merchant and acquirer incentive agreements take hold.

Finally six, as Joe mentioned at the outset, we are upgrading our guidance for fiscal year 2012 by raising EPS growth to high-teens to low-20s and reaffirming our 2013 guidance. To be more specific about what this means for 2013, we expect to see improving debit payment volume trajectory over the four quarters and revenue growth to accelerate off of 2012 levels. As for EPS, given this trajectory and the effect of lapping the regulatory impacts, we anticipate at this point in time growth in the high-teens.

Now let's turn to the numbers. As is our practice, I will cover our global payment volume and process transaction trends for the March quarter followed by our results through April 28. I will then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal second-quarter, and conclude with our guidance outlook for the balance of fiscal 2012.

Global payment volume growth for the March quarter in constant dollars was 11%, unchanged from the December quarter's 11%. Several callouts. First, credit in both US and rest of world picked up 2 points of growth versus Q1. Second, rest of world debit picked up 4 points of growth over Q1.

Third, these upticks balance out the drop in US debit growth from 6% in Q1 to 2% in Q2, thereby maintaining our overall quarter growth of 11%. More recently through April 28, which also represents the first 28 days of compliance with the April 1 deadline for two unaffiliated networks, US payments volume growth sits at minus 2%, comprised of 11% credit growth and minus 12% for debit. While still early days, these results are tracking slightly above our beginning-of-year projections.

Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 16% constant dollar growth rate in the March quarter, with the US growing 13% and the rest of world 17%. We continue to see very strong results from our Asia-Pacific, Latin America and CEMEA regions, and the longer-term sustainability of these trends appears solid.

Through April 28 cross-border volumes on a constant dollar basis grew 15%, with a US growth rate of 11% and rest of world of 17%.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled 13 billion in the fiscal second quarter, an 8% increase over the prior-year period, in-line with the 8% growth in the December quarter. For the month of April through the 28th process transaction growth was a negative [1%].

Four callouts. First, Visa processed transactions are continuing to grow at double-digit rates for US credit and all of rest of world. Second, as expected, the brunt of US debit regulation is impacting our Interlink product where transaction growth turned negative beginning in January.

Third, given the April 1 compliance deadline requiring two independent networks, we expect the negative impact on transaction growth to accelerate and reach a high point in fiscal Q3, followed by an improving trajectory in fiscal Q4 of this year.

Finally four, as a reminder, transactions lost on Interlink primarily impact the data processing fee line, as this type of transaction does not earn service fees. The impacts to date on Interlink have tracked closely to our beginning-of-year projections for transactions, revenue and earnings.

Now turning to the income statement. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $2.6 billion, a 15% increase year-over-year. The foreign exchange impact on net revenue in the quarter was neutral.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.2 billion, up 13% over the prior-year period. This is reflective of strong payment volume growth in the December quarter, the revenue from which is recorded in the March quarter.

Data processing revenue was $922 million, up 12% over the prior-year's quarter, based on strong transaction growth rates for both Visa process and CyberSource transactions.

International transaction revenue was up 17% to $733 million, reflecting continued strength in cross-border volumes, with mid-teen growth rates in both the US and rest of world.

As I highlighted earlier, client incentives for the quarter came in at 16%, below the range of our full-year guidance. Looking at the back half of the year, our expectation is for a step-up consistent with our full-year outlook of 17% to 18%. Ultimately, the final number will be determined in large part by the success of our incentive strategies with merchants and acquirers.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $972 million, up 13% from the prior year. This was primarily due to higher personnel expenses and costs associated with our acquisitions and technology projects to support our growth strategies.

Marketing expenses at $170 million reflect a heavier weighting to the second half of the year, timed with the global promotion of the London Summer Olympics.

Our operating margin for the quarter was 62%, ahead of our full-year guidance of about 60%. As was the case last quarter, this is largely due to the expense timing, as we expect a second-half ramp up in incentives, investment spending and marketing associated with the Summer Olympics.

Capital expenditures were $61 million in the quarter. Given an expected ramp up over the back half of the year, we remain comfortable with our current guidance of $350 million to $400 million for the year. Our adjusted tax rate for Q2 was just under 33% after removing the effect of the deferred tax liability remeasurement. Our expectation for a full-year adjusted rate in the 33% to 34% range remains unchanged.

Coming off the heels of a very active first -- fiscal first-quarter we were not buyers of our stock during the second quarter. As has been our practice, we remain conservative and patient in our approach, taking advantage of short-term market disruptions to obtain more attractive pricing. At the end of the March quarter we had 673 million shares of Class A common stock on an as-converted basis. Fully diluted shares outstanding totaled 676 million.

Finally, we are raising our 2012 fiscal EPS guidance to the high-teens to low-20s range as a result of better than anticipated year-to-date financial performance, forward visibility into service fee revenues given the quarter lag on their recognition, strong cross-border trends and early traction on our US debit strategies.

And with that, operator, we are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jason Kupferberg, Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: I really appreciate all the color on the DOJ situation. I think that was very helpful. I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the new FANF fee structure, which I understand just went into effect about a month ago. But what has been the reaction from the merchant community now that we are actually in implementation finally? And do you anticipate any road blocks with the implementation there, putting the DOJ situation aside?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, this is Joe Saunders. We implemented that on April 1, so there hasn't been any reaction, because I don't believe the fee has been billed to anyone yet. So there hasn't been a lot of reaction to it. It is part of the total structure we put to deal with the Durbin regulation.

We are not making money per se off of that fee. The combination of discounts and incentives that we have put together, I think, actually relate in a modest loss in the neighborhood of $100 million a year. So we aren't doing this would the intent of raising prices.

I don't think that -- well, I know that we haven't had any difficulties in getting the structure going, so I think we will have to wait and see how everything works out.

OPERATOR: Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just to follow-up to that on the CID, does it in any way change your desire to utilize the -- I guess you call it PAVD, or it is it business as usual there with that product?

And also just the service fee yield, Byron, was up quite a bit more than what we had modeled. Was there a price change there or a reclass or maybe just a mix change? Any help there would be great. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, let me start with the second one. So there has been a mix change. If you look at the payment volume growth nominally it is 11%, and our service fee growth was 13%. So if I look at it that way, roughly 1% of the -- or roughly half of the increase has been a boost in yield because of the lower mix of Interlink transactions, as I think you were referring to. And our hedging actually produced another percentage point of gain, and the rest I would say is noise.

JOE SAUNDERS: As it relates to the strategies that we have implemented, we just implemented them. I don't have any desire to change what we have done. But we put these in place in anticipation of an environment and we will look at them and we will monitor them and we will change them if it is appropriate to change them, otherwise, we will continue down the path.

I think that it would be safe to say that we were more successful in dealing with our relationships going forward than we could have projected in the past. So we'll just have to look at everything and take it all in to consideration and we will do what is appropriate.

Once again, though, I feel that the guidance projections that we made for 2012 and 2013 are safe to support an almost any environment of things that might or might not happen.

OPERATOR: Glenn Fodor, Morgan Stanley.

GLENN FODOR, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks for taking my question. Just so I have the pattern right. So we have -- PIN went negative in January -- the PIN growth trajectory. Furthermore -- or further step-down after April 1. You have incentives increasing in the second half. But then you talk about the drag on the PIN growth is supposed to ease by September. And so it has not anniversaried yet, because we haven't reached next January or next April.

So is the logic behind that, just so I have it right, because you're expecting these incentives, you're going to pay out to get that volume back to you. Do I have that right?

BYRON POLLITT: You have everything right except the PIN piece. You're right, it is going to take four quarters to annualize. So when we refer to a positive trajectory, what we meant by that was the impact of payment volume on lag year-over-year will have its greatest impact in Q3. We would then expect continued negative comparisons through -- until we annualized, but at an increasingly less negative rate as we progress through the four quarters. That would also be true for debit-related transactions, so PV and transactions.

JOE SAUNDERS: Let me just follow up on that and make perfectly clear one thing, and that is that we are never going to regain all of the marketshare that we had in the debit card business. Nothing that we say or none of our strategies suggest that that will happen or could happen. And nothing that we have done or thought about or said anticipates that it will happen.

The environment has changed by regulation. We are operating in a different world, and we are going to live forever with less share than we once had.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KBW: I guess I had a -- you answered my question on the marketshare, but maybe on share buyback, I guess you guys didn't buyback stock because you felt the stock was somewhat fairly valued. But should we assume that if the shares stay at these levels you wouldn't buy back anymore throughout the remainder of the year?

BYRON POLLITT: No, you shouldn't. We are a committed management team to returning excess cash to shareholders. I think if you take us -- and we remain committed to that. If you take a step back, we had a very large -- in our view -- a very large share repurchase in the first quarter. And so we time our purchases over the course of the year, looking for both opportunities to do that at attractive pricing, but also in the case of the first quarter being responsive to an opportunity to put a significant increment of cash into the escrow account.

So I think if you take a step back year-to-date we are -- we have already made sizable repurchases. And you can count on us to continue to return excess cash, not just for this year but years to come.

OPERATOR: John Williams, UBS.

JOHN WILLIAMS, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks for taking my questions. Just a couple of quick ones. On the marketing budget, just as we think forward into the rest of the year regarding calendarization related to the Olympics and any other things you might need to think about as we look at the marketing line?

BYRON POLLITT: I'm not sure what else to add other than every four years we have a particularly attractive opportunity to put significant media into two quarters, which is the third and the fourth. And knowing that was the feature of what we want to emphasize this year, we kept -- we phased our marketing in the first two quarters in order to accommodate that. We will reset marketing from a bottoms-up standpoint beginning next year in October to give you a sense of what that will look like.

OPERATOR: Bob Napoli, William Blair.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: Just, Joe, I'm just trying to clarify a comment you said on 12/13 guidance you thought it was safe under very -- under various circumstances. Are you suggesting that if you needed to adjust your strategy based upon the CID that you still felt confident in the guidance, is that -- am I reading that right or not?

JOE SAUNDERS: The Department of Justice is certainly included in what I said, but it would include a lot more than that. But, yes, absolutely certain.

BOB NAPOLI: Okay, is the CID -- I mean, is mostly focus on -- I mean, I guess would you view it focused mostly on the 2% of revenue of -- you know, that strategy on that 2% piece of the revenue or more broadly?

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't know how to get into that specifically. You're asking general questions about what you're doing to react to the legislation. And it is the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department, so obviously they must have a concern that we were doing things that might undermine that. But I don't really want to go any further. I mean, I'm not them and I can't say that.

We have talked to them. We provide information to them. And we have, obviously, very seriously considered various things that may or may not happen, and we have taken it into consideration in crafting our guidance.

OPERATOR: Moshe Katri, Cowen.

MOSHE KATRI, ANALYST, COWEN: You have had really impressive growth on the credit side, especially the acceleration we have seen from last quarter. Byron, maybe you can talk a bit more about the various moving parts in terms of the major drivers here -- maybe talk about the consumer side versus the corporate side. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, our business is still largely driven by the consumer side for sure. The commercial side is growing at good rates. We are very encouraged by the numbers being posted on the commercial side, because we think, first and foremost, that is a healthy barometer with regards to how businesses are doing and the continuity in the kind of payment volume growth we are seeing, particularly in credit.

And if you take a look at the cross-border, which is probably our most important leading indicator, the cross-border trends in both consumer and retail as well as commercial are very strong. And so with -- and that is one of the indicators we look to when we put out our guidance and one of the inputs that gave us confidence to raise our guidance for the year.

JOE SAUNDERS: On the consumer side, I mentioned in my comments the extension of our partnerships with a number of financial institutions that represent a significant portion of our volume. I mentioned the United Continental arrangement which is going to deliver new volume to us. I mentioned signing other financial institutions that we have done less business with in the past. I mentioned Alaska Airlines.

And so the trajectory of what we are doing, we are very happy with and we are very bullish about it. We are very pleased that this is happening at this opportune time.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I hate to go back to the whole debit thing, but I guess I'm trying to understand how the marketshare loss is that extreme in the short run. I know the revenue impact isn't that large, but even in terms of just the transactions, if the process allows the merchant to route the transaction over the signature network, or has that not yet been put in place? In other words, was that -- because otherwise how is that marketshare loss that significant if that was already in place?

JOE SAUNDERS: The opportunity to do what you suggest wasn't started until April 14, and isn't fully implemented and won't be for several weeks.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane, Deutsche Bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I guess I expected a decline in Interlink volume. But specifically what has happened in Visa Debit volume that you expect in 3Q and 4Q? And I guess inside of that how much of that is marketshare loss versus just banks maybe deemphasizing signature debit?

JOE SAUNDERS: It is hard to be totally specific about it. I think that has leveled off, and we continue to look at modest growth. But right now I would attribute the majority of it to the removal of all the rewards programs. There virtually are no rewards programs associated with debit cards anymore, and those programs did drive volume; and a de-emphasis in marketing these programs by the financial institution. It is the combination of those two things that had an effect on it.

There were some small pockets of cards that were put out that never had a PIN capability and the regulation requires that that change. And so people that simply couldn't use a PIN number can now. It is a combination of those three things in our opinion at this point in time is pretty much what is going on in the signature business.

OPERATOR: Andrew Jeffrey, SunTrust.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Thanks for taking the question. Just to make sure I have this clear in my earnings-addled mind, Byron, when you talk about total transaction volume in the back half of fiscal 2012, in aggregate across the business you are thinking about transaction volume being down, correct?

And does that mix -- does the shift in mix away from Interlink change what we should think about as the data processing yield as a consequence?

BYRON POLLITT: So my commentary on transactions was for debit specifically in aggregate. I think what will become increasingly important as we look at process transactions is US credit, and then separately what are we doing in the rest of world. And I think we indicated that we have very, very vibrant transaction growth rates in US credit and in rest of world.

And with regards to yield, we will give this -- there is definitely going to be some disconnects in the way that you look at this from a modeling standpoint, because I think one of the -- you heard this earlier, one of the natural effects of pulling out Interlink transactions is, since it only affects the DP line there will be a natural drop just because it will be generating less DP fees, but it is also removing payment volume for which there are no service fees. So that will actually boost the service fee yield on the transactions that remain.

And we will give some thought as to how to talk about that with you all by the next earnings call to help sort that out. And if that weren't enough, we're going to take -- we have already mentioned we are going to take the fixed acquiring network fee and we are -- for the most part that will appear in data processing as a line item.

So we have some work to do to make this more transparent with regards to what will happen to those lines -- what we think will happen to those lines, and we will plan that for next quarter's earnings call.

JOE SAUNDERS: Just as a reminder, the transaction loss in Interlink is coming from a business that a year ago generated 2.8% of our global revenue and last quarter generated 2% of our global revenue. It gives you an idea of the notion that there are different yields upon different types of payment lines.

OPERATOR: Len DeProspo, Janney.

LEN DEPROSPO, ANALYST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT: Good afternoon and thank you for taking my question. This is just a question with regard to the advertising promotion expense. I think the Olympics are going to happen entirely in your fourth quarter, but I assume you all will be doing some spending ahead of that. So could you just help us break out how much of the incremental spending will occur in the third quarter versus the fourth quarter, maybe a percentage split?

BYRON POLLITT: We don't typically provide that, but you are absolutely right. There is a considerable amount of promotional activity done with our banking partners, which has -- actually some of which actually started in our second fiscal quarter. It really ramps during the third quarter. And then in the fourth quarter you have the last of the broadcast media that is fairly intensive around the Olympics themselves.

So to be helpful here, we are holding -- we have said we are holding to our existing marketing guidance so that you have an order of magnitude, and you now have two quarters in the can. And in terms of what our full-year results are likely to be, I think we have bounded that pretty well. And between the quarters we just -- as I said, we typically just don't break that out.

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes, you should also think about the fact that the advertising we do in the third and the fourth quarter supports the programs that many of our financial institutions initiate around the Olympics with Olympic themed cards, and that those initiatives generate more particularly credit card volume, which is the reason that we do this.

We have, I think, almost -- on a global basis almost 3 times as many financial institutions participating in promotions this year as we did four years ago.

OPERATOR: Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just to go back to the 2013 commentary, Byron, can you just walk us back through both the revenue expectations and the EPS expectations? I want to make sure we have the -- both of those numbers there are correct.

BYRON POLLITT: So on the revenue, what we said was our expectation is that revenue in 2013 will grow off of 2012 levels. So whatever the growth rate in revenue is for 2012, everything else being equal, we would expect it to be somewhat higher in 2013.

With regards to EPS growth, if you will recall, back in the October earnings call when we reaffirmed the 2013 guidance, what we said was we expected EPS to also grow off of 2000 (sic - see press release) levels. But our expectation at that point and our guidance at that time on 2012 was that EPS would grow mid-to high-teens. We are now at high-teens, low-20s.

And as we indicated in the earnings call back in October, there were a number of components that got us to that EPS growth, one of which was a favorable step-down in our ongoing tax rate, and that represented plus or minus five percentage points of EPS growth. And so as we began to, in effect, outperform during the course of the year and raise our guidance, we wanted to make it clear that when we talked about 2013 our expectation was more high-teens, recognizing that it wouldn't be likely or possible for us to lap that same kind of tax improvement on EPS, and that we would be substituting instead operating earnings for that tax benefit that we received in 2012, but wouldn't expect to duplicate in 2013.

And so that is why we want to make it very clear that, at least at this point in time, our earnings growth guidance should be in the high-teens range.

OPERATOR: Tim Willi, Wells Fargo.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: I want to just ask a question around the commentary around processing transactions in Brazil. Curious to what extent this has some impact on the conversation around revenue yield. It is something we would notice if that ramps up over the next couple of quarters. And in conjunction with that, is a further opportunity with bank partners or other services around this agreement to continue to improve that yield as that relationship would mature and move further in years?

JOE SAUNDERS: The increase on processing on VisaNet in Brazil has -- does have an effect on our yield, because we're going to be receiving revenues for transactions going over the VisaNet that we didn't before. It is going to ramp up over a period of time.

I don't think that we are in a position right now to tell you how that is going to affect our global yields or our global -- or even our global revenues in the short run.

We are very excited about it, because it puts us in a position in Brazil similar to the United States, where not only are we going to be processing more transactions, but we will be able to deliver other revenue generating services. And I think that you'll begin to see that manifests itself in our 2013 projections.

JACK CARSKY: Operator, at this time we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Chris Brendler, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: One clarification, Byron. In response to an earlier question, I think on the service fee yield -- service fees as a percentage of volume, you had said it is a mix -- about half of it was a mix issue and the other half was hedging. If I understand right, service fees are not earned on Interlink. So the mix we are seeing there is the -- dividing by a lower denominator. Is that is what is causing the mix -- that yield to go up?

And then my unrelated question would be, on VDotMe do you expect to have anything in your marketing budget or any significant amount in your marketing budget for that fourth-quarter Christmas holiday launch? Is this going to be a pretty significant launch this year or is it going to be more of a soft launch? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: You go ahead.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, let me take the first one. You have it right. What we have when you remove Interlink transactions, you are removing transactions from the denominator, but you're not touching the service fees. So the yield automatically starts moving up.

JOE SAUNDERS: As it relates to VDotMe, we will have -- certainly have some advertising in the [napha fee], but the advertising that we will do will be in conjunction with merchants that are coming onto the network and through financial institutions to encourage their customers to enroll. So I guess in that regard it would be soft. You're not going to see any national TV advertising in the fourth quarter.

JACK CARSKY: And with that we want to thank everybody for joining us. And if anybody has follow-up questions, feel free to give Investor Relations a call. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference call. The call has concluded. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120516e85200a6r
  


 HD
 Q1  2012  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,298 words
   PD
8 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal Q1 2012 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Good afternoon, and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal first-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast over the Internet, and can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days.

The PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call. Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and, as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. These include setbacks in the global economy and the impact of new financial reform regulations.

Additional information concerning these factors is available on our last 10-K on file with the SEC. It can be accessed through the SEC website and the Investor Relations section of our website. For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed on this call, related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the Financial and Statistical Summary accompanying today's earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our website.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Jack, and as always, thank you for joining us. I plan to walk you through three key areas during today's call. First, I'll provide a brief update on Visa's financial performance and outlook, including some perspective on key environmental and event-specific factors that could impact our business over the balance of fiscal 2012. Following that, I'll walk through our progress with growing Visa's core business, both in the United States and internationally, including an update on US debit. And finally, I'll discuss Visa's investments in innovation, which can help us expand our core business and generate new revenue streams.

Visa's global enterprise outpaced our own expectations during the first quarter -- an encouraging opening to our fiscal year. Net operating revenues were $2.5 billion, a 14% increase over the same period last year. These revenue gains were driven by robust growth in our international businesses, continued resilience in US credit, sustained cross-border spending, and strong eCommerce growth.

Net income for the quarter was $1 billion, a 16% increase over last year. This equates to diluted earnings per share of $1.49 or a 21% increase over the first quarter of 2011. Overall, our first-quarter performance clearly demonstrates the strength and resilience of Visa's global model and our ability to grow even in a challenging global economy.

When we look ahead to the rest of fiscal 2012, it is clear we must carefully navigate a complex and uncertain business environment. We see signs of modest global GDP expansion for the rest of our fiscal year, with emerging markets continuing to grow at rates faster than the global average. That being said, we are closely watching economic conditions that could impact our business, including continued volatility in Europe.

Additionally, we are still working through the implementation of debit regulation in the United States. I will provide details shortly, but it's fair to say the dust is still settling. Overall, Visa is successfully executing its plan, and I continue to be encouraged that the net impact is consistent with our guidance outlook.

Taking these macro and issue-specific factors into account, as well as our better-than-expected first quarter, we are raising our FY '12 revenue guidance to low-double-digit growth from high-single to low-double-digit growth, and our adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance from mid to high-teens to just high-teens. As I stated last quarter, we are reaffirming our belief that 2012 will take the brunt of the impact related to the US debit regulation, and growth in 2013 will accelerate off of 2012 levels.

And based on that outlook, we continue to deliver our commitment to return excess cash back to shareholders. We used $1.6 billion of our operating cash to reduce the as-converted Class A common stock by 16.2 million shares during the three months ended December 31, 2011. Of the $1.6 billion, $75 million was used to repurchase Class A common stock in the open market, while we deposited $1.57 billion of our operating cash into the litigation escrow account previously established under the retrospective Responsibility Plan. Looking ahead, our Board has authorized an additional $500 million share repurchase authorization.

Before moving on to our business update, I'd like to briefly address the Merchant litigation in the United States. Although I am constrained to discuss the details due to the confidential mediation process, I can tell you that I believe that with the court's assistance, progress is being made towards resolution of all issues.

After our latest escrow deposit in December, we now have an uncommitted balance of $4.3 billion in our litigation escrow account, which is consistent with our view of the current status of mediation discussions. Visa is unwilling to agree to any significant or long-term credit interchange rate reductions or any settlement agreement that doesn't provide a full resolution to that and other key issues. Although progress is being made, there are uncertainties which continue to exist, and accordingly, in our judgment at this time, the Company believes that a loss is not probable and estimable under GAAP.

Now let's turn to the business update. During the first quarter, Visa continued to accelerate the migration to digital currency by successfully executing our growth strategy of expanding our core credit, debit, prepaid, and commercial businesses; expanding acceptance; extending our international reach; and aggressively investing in innovative next-generation payment technology.

Worldwide, Visa's credit and debit payment volumes grew 12% and 9%, respectively, on a constant dollar basis this past quarter. In the United States, volumes on all Visa products grew 7% during the quarter. In regard to our US debit business, I feel very good about where we are and the progress we've made adapting our business to the new debit regulations. We are making the best of an obviously negative event.

That being said, I'd like to share some important observations. Historically, we have always been a clear leader in the US debit market, and thus, are the primary participant with downside risk. As we have acknowledged previously, regulation will reduce Visa's US debit volumes. The new legal requirements are changing competitive dynamics, and requiring all issuers to place competitive marks on their cards in order to comply with the law. While the law and doesn't require compliance until April, some issuers have already begun to make the change.

The deceleration of our US debit volume growth during the first quarter was an early sign of this impact, driven by slower growth in PIN transactions and an expected de-emphasis by issuers of debit card, marketing, and debit rewards programs. A key driver of this slower growth was one major financial institution's decision to remove Interlink from the back of their cards, which began in the fall as part of their own plan to comply with the regulation. They and Visa will be able to compete for PIN transactions with the PIN authentication available on Visa check cards.

While we are taking these impacts seriously, let me also be clear about a few additional facts that give me confidence about our long-term growth, as we advance our debit strategy in the new environment. To begin with, we are making steady progress advancing our strategies through an issuance and merchant routing.

We are aggressively pursuing a back-of-card strategy that adds Interlink to many existing cards that currently carry competitive brands. In fact, we're poised to sign new agreements with major financial institutions to secure back-of-card placement. We look forward to updating you on our progress securing these decisions in the coming quarters. At the same time, we remain on track to maintain our front-of-card issuance relationships; and, in fact, have extended the majority of those major relationships to 2015 and beyond.

Signature transactions generate a far larger share of our US debit revenue and offer greater revenue yields. This is particularly important as we see no sign of a wholesale shift to PIN debit by the merchant community, and our signature debit volumes were resilient during the first quarter.

On a parallel track, we are moving forward with strategies to compete for merchant routing decisions. One key aspect of that plan is Visa's previously announced program to modify acceptance economics in the United States, which we believe will offer merchants greater incentive to route transactions over our network in an opportunity to lower their per-unit transactions costs. As a next step in our implementation plan, we will share specifics with acquirers and merchants later in the month.

Our updated 2012 guidance takes all of these factors into account, including some loss of debit share, and I'm confident that we've appropriately scoped the impact of Durbin. As stated earlier in my remarks, we expect that 2012 will take the brunt of the impact related to US debit regulation, and we still expect growth in 2013 to accelerate off of the 2012 levels. Bottom line, I'm confident we are moving in the right direction. We have a smart debit strategy, and we are executing it successfully.

Now let's focus on credit products in the United States, which performed very well during the quarter. Payment volumes increased by 10%, the eighth consecutive quarter of positive growth and third consecutive quarter of double-digit performance in that category. Additionally, affluent credit in the United States posted particularly strong payment volume growth, increasing more than twice as fast as the overall category during the two most recent quarters.

A key differentiator and important contributor to our success is our unsurpassed portfolio of co-brand products, which are also outperforming the category, and clearly driving consumer loyalty and gaining further traction in the market. We also grew our portfolio by building on existing long-term relationships and winning several important new US credit mandates during the quarter, and are excited for those to appear in the market in the near-term.

Prepaid also continues to be another area of strength, posting robust volume growth during the first quarter. We signed a number of agreements that will drive future growth, including multiple mandates in two of the fastest-growing segments in the prepaid category -- general purpose reloadable cards and employee benefit programs.

For example, we extended our relationship with Green Dot, the largest program manager in prepaid. In addition, our government prepaid programs continue to thrive. The Washington, DC Department of Employment Services recently announced that all new recipients of unemployment insurance benefits will have the option to receive automatic payments on Visa prepaid cards. In addition, we recently added Connecticut, South Carolina, Georgia, and Louisiana to the list of states offering programs to distribute state income tax refunds on Visa prepaid cards.

Overall, approximately 40 states are using or are in the process of implementing Visa prepaid card programs, to disburse a range of benefits through more than 80 programs. In fact, approximately 30 of 38 state unemployment insurance card programs and 31 of 49 state child-support programs can be delivered on Visa cards today. Building on that, we are rapidly expanding our government activities in key geographies worldwide.

Now let's turn to Visa's international business, which continues to be an increasingly important growth driver for our organization. International geographies posted healthy payment volume gains of 15% on a constant dollar basis, and drove approximately 66% of Visa's revenue growth this quarter, and now represent 46% of Visa's net revenue. This means we continue to make steady progress toward our stated goal of deriving 50% of Visa's revenues from international businesses by 2015.

Yet again, our performance in Latin America stands out, with continued strong growth. Payment volumes grew by 22% on a constant dollar basis during the quarter, and we are building on that momentum by winning several important client mandates. In Mexico, Visa signed an extensive partnership contract with BBVA Bancomer to expand our long-standing relationship across a broad suite of products and services. This client is Visa's largest issuer and acquirer in Mexico, as well as the largest financial institution in the country.

Turning to SAMEA, we were pleased to win a major long-term mandate with Al Rajhi Bank, covering around 50% of all payments volume in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The agreement, the largest we've ever signed in the Middle East, is exclusive for debit and prepaid, and covers the vast majority of that institution's credit products.

We're also continuing to invest in the long-term growth of Africa. Without question, Visa's existing product offerings and our unrivaled network provide us with a strong foundation to push our financial inclusion agenda forward. Additionally, Fundamo and our partnership with Monitise provide us with a footprint and technical expertise in emerging economies. I firmly believe no organization is better positioned than Visa to lead forward the migration to digital currency on the African continent.

An example of our progress was our November launch of a prepaid account that can be accessed through a mobile phone, offering consumers in developing countries a secure, reliable, globally-interoperable electronic payment account. MTN Group, a leading telecommunications provider in Africa and the Middle East, plans to offer the new Visa product to MTN Mobile Money customers across its markets. As part of the launch, the new product will first be available to customers in Nigeria and Uganda. Additionally, Fundamo is supporting our unique partnership with the Rwandan Government to drive access to financial services for consumers in that country.

And in Asia-Pacific, we continue to build steady momentum in our prepaid business, with two prominent examples coming from Australia during the quarter. With Australia Post, we executed a multi-year exclusive agreement for their general-purpose reloadable and travel product. We also won a mandate with A&Zed for a multi-currency travel program, allowing consumers to load up 10 different currencies on a single card, and lock in exchange rates, giving a cardholder even greater control over their travel budget. Importantly, Visa processing services was a critical part of our agreement with A&Zed, helping advance Visa's overall strategy of expanding processing penetration worldwide.

Lastly, let's talk about Visa's innovation agenda. We continue to invest in new technologies that will increase the number of transactions on our core business products, add incremental value to the merchant community, and create new revenue opportunities for both Visa and our clients.

In the United States, Visa is focused on offering consumers a seamless and secure payment experience, whether they're paying at the point-of-sale, with a card or phone, or buying digital or physical goods online. The key to that approach is VDotMe, our newly branded wallet service and global acceptance mark, which is a top priority for the organization. And we are moving swiftly towards broad commercial availability in 2012.

As I said previously, our top priority with VDotMe is to advance our click-to-buy and touch-to-buy functionalities, including aliasing capabilities. This functionality will immediately increase ease-of-use and convenience for consumers, while offering merchants and financial institutions the greatest business value. Longer-term, VDotMe will offer our clients a range of payment-related capabilities that can be tailored to meet each organization's specific needs.

So where are we? During the quarter, we took an important step towards consumer availability, initiating a beta version of VDotMe with close to 1,000 Visa employees and certain key partners. In the coming weeks, we will be expanding the beta group and start the implementation with a few brand-name merchants.

Of course, scaling VDotMe will require a buy-in from the broad merchant, acquirer, and issuer communities. To that end, we are directly engaged with more than 100 major merchants to discuss and test the product. We are also integrating VDotMe with our CyberSource gateway, which will quickly enable access for 380,000 online merchants. In addition, we will extend this capability to our other acquirers and reseller partners.

At the same time, we are engaged in productive conversations with several major issuers who are showing genuine enthusiasm for the product as an offering for their clients. I look forward to providing updates in the coming quarters.

We're also making platform enhancements that pave the way for broad adoption of the payment-related services on mobile devices in the near-term. Today, we announced that hundreds of financial institutions using a combination of Visa issuer processing platform, Visa DPS, and monetized mobile applications, can immediately offer a range of payment-related mobile services to their account. These can be accessed via almost any mobile device and operating system.

This effectively makes our DPS platform a one-stop shop for mobile services within the issuing community. Immediately available services include monitoring account balances, transferring funds between accounts, and instant alerts on mobile devices. We have plans to deploy additional offerings, including mobile check deposit, NFC payments, mobile offers, and support for VDotMe.

We are also investing in Mobile Money Solutions outside the United States. Here, Fundamo is a key to our efforts, as they are a global leader in deploying mobile payment platforms for developing markets worldwide. During the quarter, Fundamo secured deals with mobile operators and banks in several geographies around the globe, including Nigeria, Indonesia, Bangladesh, and Pakistan.

On the eCommerce front, Visa is clearly benefiting from an increasingly strong secular trend towards online shopping, and our acquisitions of CyberSource and PlaySpan favorably position Visa to accelerate that growth. In fact, CyberSource's billable transactions totaled $1.2 billion, a very strong 25% growth rate over the same period a year ago. We secured a number of new business wins with major partners in the United States, including American Apparel, autotrader.com, and Shutterfly.

Outside the US, CyberSource continues to gain traction. For example, in China, we've expanded our relationship with 99Bill, one of that country's leading electronic payment service suppliers, a prime example of how Visa is partnering with leading local providers to deliver value to the payment's ecosystem in that country. 99Bill has just gone live with CyberSource's Broad Management Solution, CyberSource Decision Manager, and is using CyberSource services to complement their existing security systems to process cross-border transactions safely, as they expand business overseas.

So to sum up, Visa has continued to demonstrate the underlying strength of our business model. Visa continues to grow. We have expanded our core business lines. We have expanded our footprint in international markets, both emerging and established. We have increased our investments in innovation to help us carve out new revenue streams for the future. And we have taken important steps in our relationship with the merchant community to help foster greater cooperation in the future.

Each of these achievements helps us continue to deliver against our stated mission of offering more payment choices to more people in more places around the world.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Byron, who will walk you through the financial details of our quarter. And then we can take some of your questions. Byron?

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. I'll begin with some overall observations and call-outs. First, Visa's 14% net revenue growth in the first quarter was once again broad-based and encouraging, with solid 8% growth in the US and a very strong 22% growth rate in rest-of-world. Approximately 66% of the quarter's revenue growth came from outside the United States, and non-US revenue in the quarter was 46% of Visa's total.

Second, US revenue growth has been supported by eight consecutive quarters of positive credit payment volume growth. Most recently, the months of November, December, and January comped at 12%, 10% and 10%, respectively, which continues the strong growth we have now seen for two years.

Third, client incentives for the quarter as a percent of gross revenue were 16%, below our full-year guidance as a result of lower-than-anticipated Durbin-related incentives, and a lower level of deal activity in the first quarter versus the out-quarter.

Fourth, note that we are reporting the quarter using a 36% tax rate, above our full-year guidance of 33% to 34% on an adjusted basis. We will begin reporting at this lower level once California officially adjusts its tax rate calculations, which we anticipate will be in fiscal Q2.

Finally, fifth, for EPS calculation purposes, the as-converted share count reduction, driven by the escrow deposit, took effect on December 29, and therefore, had no noticeable impact on the fiscal Q1 EPS calculation, but will have a full effect for the balance of the year.

Now, let's turn to the numbers. As is our practice, I will cover our global payment volume and process transaction trends for the December quarter, followed by our results through the end of January. I'll then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal first quarter, and conclude with our guidance outlook for fiscal 2012.

Global payment volume growth for the December quarter in constant dollars was 11%, modestly below the September quarter's 13%. We saw the following breakdowns in the December quarter. In the US, payment volume growth was 7%, a modest decrease from the 9% growth we saw in the September quarter. This was comprised of 10% credit growth and 5% debit growth. So, we are beginning to see some modest effect on debits from the recently-enacted Fed rules.

Rest-of-world payment volume on a constant dollar basis grew at 15%, supported by double-digit growth rates in both debits and credits. More recently, in the month of January, US payment volume growth came in at 7%; credit growth was 10%; while debit was 4%. Although not yet available, based on the trends we saw during the fourth quarter, we expect rest-of-world payment volume growth will continue to exceed the US by a comfortable margin.

Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 13% growth rate on a constant dollar basis in the December quarter, with the US growing 11% and the rest-of-world 14%. The recovery of inbound travel to Japan, the Middle East, and North Africa continues, and the longer-term sustainability of these trends appears to be on track.

In January, cross-border volumes on a constant dollar basis grew 15% with uptick, and the US growth rate to 13% and rest-of-world 17%. Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled $13.6 billion in the fiscal first quarter, an 8% increase over the prior-year period compared to 9% growth in the September quarter. Here again, we are beginning to see the impact of the new debit rules. For the month of January, process transaction growth moved back up to 9%.

Now turning to the income statement. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $2.5 billion, a 14% increase year-over-year, driven by strong growth in global payment volumes, better-than-expected data processing revenues, and lower-than-anticipated flight incentive. The foreign exchange impact on net revenue in the quarter was a positive 1%.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.2 billion, up 14% over the prior-year period. This is reflective of strong payment volume growth in the September quarter. Data processing revenue was $951 million, up 13% over the prior-year's quarter, based on strong transaction growth rates for both Visa process and CyberSource transactions. On that note, CyberSource posted a 25% gain in transactions over the prior-year's quarter, benefiting from Visa's eCommerce transaction growth, which approximated 24% for the quarter.

International transaction revenue was up 19% to $748 million, reflecting continued strength in cross-border volumes, above-average currency volatility during the period, and modest strategic pricing adjustments outside the United States. As I highlighted earlier, client incentives (technical difficulty) came in at 16%, below the range of our full year guidance, but consistent with our full-year outlook of 17% to 18%.

Total operating expense for the quarter was $929 million, up 7% from the prior-year. This was primarily due to higher personnel, network, and processing costs associated with investments in our growth strategy. Our operating margin for the quarter was 64%, ahead of our full-year guidance of about 60%. This is largely due to expense timing, as we expect a ramp-up in investment spending and marketing associated with the Summer Olympics.

Capital expenditures were $66 million in the quarter. We expect CapEx to ramp-up over the course of the year, and remain comfortable with our current guidance of $350 million to $400 million for the year.

Finally, as noted earlier, our tax rate for Q1 was 36%. However, we expect the benefits previously discussed from a lower state rate and foreign tax credits to be applied in future quarters results, retroactive to Q1; thereby, more accurately reflecting our full-year guidance of an adjusted 33% to 34% range.

As Joe mentioned, we were active buyers of our stock during the quarter, repurchasing approximately 800,000 shares at an average price of $89.91 in the open market. The escrow funding of $1.57 billion resulted in a change to the conversion rate of the Class B share, which equates to a reduction in the as-converted Class A common stock of 15.4 million shares, effective December 29.

At the end of the December quarter, we had 672 million shares of Class A common stock on an as-converted basis, which incorporates the impacts of the escrow funding and open market purchases. Fully diluted shares outstanding totaled 690 million for the December quarter. Visa remains committed to returning excess cash to shareholders. And to this end, as Joe mentioned at the outset, our Board of Directors authorized a new $500 million share repurchase plan.

Finally, we are making two changes to our guidance for fiscal 2012. The outlook for net revenue growth is now in the low double-digit range, and for adjusted diluted EPS growth, it is now high-teens. All other guidance metrics remain as presented last quarter. As the year unfolds and we have additional clarity around the results of our Durbin debit strategies, as well as US, global, and global economic momentum, we will be in a better position to refine this guidance as necessary.

And with that, Operator, we are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Craig Maurer, CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA: I had a question on the tax rate beyond the current year. Could we see that fall below your adjusted 33% to 34% range, considering the changes that are coming?

And secondly, marketing was dramatically below what I was thinking about for the quarter. So I was hoping to get your thoughts there regarding what opportunities did present themselves in the quarter, and if your thought process changed for the year? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: For tax, it's a little early to make that call since we've got this year to play out; but we will -- rest assured, we will address tax guidance for the coming year in the next couple of quarters, which is our practice.

With regards to marketing, no change -- think of this as timing. Our guidance hasn't changed. We have the Summer Olympics coming up, and we are re-phasing our marketing spend to coincide better with the Olympics and the promotions that come in advance. So you should expect to see some movement on the marketing line in fiscal quarters two and three, commensurate with that.

OPERATOR: Darrin Peller, Barclays Capital.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: You know, I mean, volume trends look like they've held up pretty well, especially into January. And then we have a guidance change, especially on both the top-line and not EPS. Do you think that the guidance is more -- or the change is more reflective of really more benign impacts of maybe the debit regulations as was included in your previous guidance? Or is it more macro-driven?

And I guess the follow-up question to that would be, is there more room around the rebates, maybe -- the 17% to 18% just conservative on the rebates, because maybe the debit environment or the Durbin environment effects were not as bad as expected? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: So let me take that. This is more a reflection of how some of the risk that Joe and I called out on the last quarter's earnings call, how some of those risks are playing out. Recognizing that we have a one-quarter lag on our service fees, that means we've already got a line of sight into seven months of that revenue. Cross-border volumes have held up very well.

With regards to both the US and the global economy, both have demonstrated sustained momentum. The exciting drama unfolding in Europe has yet to really play out on the volumes. And so the guidance adjustments are more a function of having a portion of our year with a clear line of sight, and some of the risks we were most concerned about, where we're getting well into the fiscal year and they haven't materialized to the degree that -- we had to at least contemplate when we gave the initial guidance.

OPERATOR: Glenn Fodor, Morgan Stanley.

GLENN FODOR, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Joe, thanks for the color on the issuer loss. Was this the ultimate result of a holistic view by the issuer that under no circumstances would they pursue a dual strategy? Or was this a case you wouldn't go as low as they wanted on price?

And secondly, can you give us a sense of what portion of your exclusive PIN debit issuers still have to make a decision? And what type of win rate have you assumed in your guidance?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, getting back to the particular issuer that we talked about, it was -- I think it's fair to say that it was just a decision about how they were going to comply with the law, and knowing, to a certain extent, that our accepting PIN numbers on signatures cards, as we've always done, was an opportunity. I think it was just their way of rationalizing how they wanted to go forward. It wasn't a price issue.

And then what was the second part of the question? I'm sorry.

BYRON POLLITT: How many still to go -- have to make the decision?

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes, on removing Interlink? I think that -- I think most of them have made their decision. There is no other major issuer that has Interlink on the back of the card that's contemplating taking it off. And we have had several wins on putting the Interlink mark on the back of non-Visa debit cards. And that will manifest itself certainly no later than April 1. But again, I can't really talk about it. We're in the final stages of several contracts and they don't like us to disclose who they are.

OPERATOR: Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Everything looks really clean here. I just wanted to ask on the client incentives, you said they were running below the full-year target. Should we expect it to spike again around April 1 exclusivity date? Just trying to get some help with the quarterly spread.

And just as a follow-up to that for Joe, you said that the dust hasn't settled. Is it fair to interpret that to mean -- how should I say it? -- that you haven't started playing defense yet with your MPFs for the VPIN strategy? Are the issuers and the acquirers open to both? Just wanted to get a little bit of color on that.

JOE SAUNDERS: (multiple speakers) The second part of the question first and then Byron can answer the first part of the question.

When I said the dust hasn't settled, I also suggested that I'm very happy with how we've implemented our strategies. And I am very happy about that. And things appear to be playing out quite well in that regard. But until we get to the end of the year and we see exactly what the actual results are, I mean, there is some ambiguity. Although changing our guidance and expressing a degree of confidence would suggest that we're pretty happy with where we are and with what's going on.

BYRON POLLITT: Tien-Tsin, I would say that it clearly weighted to the second-half of the year after April 1. If you think in the context of -- a portion of these incentives are assigned to merchant routing and they trigger when the routing is successfully sent Visa's way. That's going to weight a portion of the incentives that really hasn't -- isn't as relevant in the first two quarters of the year, relative to the second.

And then the rate of deal activity, which has nothing to do with Durbin, but has to do with the ongoing course of our business, primarily credit, both in the United States and outside the United States, that level of deal activity was just less than we anticipated in the first quarter. And so that will just carry forward into quarters two, three, and four.

So we reaffirmed our guidance at 17% to 18%. We still feel good about that. No real call-outs; just timing.

OPERATOR: Jamie Friedman, Susquehanna.

JAMIE FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP: Thank you for taking my question. So Joe, you mentioned that you've been happy with your strategy implementation. Byron, you mentioned that the Durbin incentives were lower than you had modeled. I guess, if you had to summarize it, at this vantage point, has Durbin turned out to be better, worse, or the same than you had originally contemplated?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I think it's modestly better than what we had contemplated. I think that the implementation of our strategies put us at the better part of that -- which is what I've said about the regulation pretty consistently.

So, I don't know -- I just -- I don't know how to put it in total perspective because, as I said earlier, we've got to see what happens. In some cases, there's been accelerated early adoption, and in some cases, there's been less early adoption. And I think it appears like it's going to even out and it appears like things will occur in a manner that we've anticipated.

When I say that, I'm not really factoring in the potential positive effect of some of the things that we've done to drive volume to us over time. And we'll have to see how that works out with the -- through the acquirers and the merchant community.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane, Deutsche Bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I guess one question for Joe and another for Byron. I guess, Joe, what kind of impact do you expect in the model with the change in pricing that's going to go on, on April 1? And I know it's going to be a change in pricing for all products -- it's not just debit; I know it includes credit. So I'm just curious on what kind of impact do you think that it will have?

And then, Byron, when we look at the international revenues, they're now, for two quarters in a row, growing faster than the cross-border volume growth. Is that just better pricing that we're getting? What is driving that phenomenon the past two quarters? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: I mean, so let me answer the international one first. So we recorded nominal growth at 12% and there was a 19% increase in revenue. Whenever there is significant above-average currency volatility, then our revenue stream trends up. And then -- and so that's the primary delta that you are seeing. It doesn't have anything to do with our pricing. It's much more a function of currency volatility, and that has largely been courtesy of Europe and the unfolding drama around the euro.

With regards to -- let me see if I understand the question. On balance in US debit, when you combine the fixed acquiring network fee with the lower variable transaction fees associated with US debit, this constitutes a net price reduction. And that has been completely folded into our guidance.

OPERATOR: Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: So have your common switch plans and network participation fee plans met any meaningful obstacles? And could you provide more specifics on how the common switch and network participation fee will be implemented, presumably in upcoming months here?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think that what we've done, we've announced two quarters ago and we've consistently talked about. I think any time you change the paradigm that there's probably some consternation somewhere along the way. But in general, we've met with -- it's been pretty benign and we've met with favorable receptivity.

I would say out of our largest merchants, there are a significant number of them that have signed contracts with us, that anticipate the fixed fee and they're fine with it. I mean, I suppose that doesn't mean that they won't complain about it later, but that's kind of the history of our business. As it relates to that, we're putting -- officially we'll put out the specifications for that in about the -- in the next week.

As it relates to fully activating the PIN capability on the Visa debit card, that will begin on April 1. And all of those things are going along as we anticipated, as we had planned. We're very happy with the way that it turned out. And as you might expect, I mean, there's been a lot of water that's gone under the bridge; they're both complicated paradigms.

As Byron says, we feel that we're in a much better position in the long run with a modest fixed fee and a lower variable fee. We believe that that suits merchants in a much more compatible way than in the past, because they can take advantage of economies of scale. It is not a price increase, as we speak today, as it relates to the PIN capability on the signature card. That seems to be the way things are moving, as a capability that we have. And we're very comfortable with that as well.

OPERATOR: David Togut, Evercore Partners.

DAVID TOGUT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Joe, could you highlight some of the innovation you have planned on the credit side? You indicated that credit volume growth was twice what debit was in the US in December, and much of the growth came from the affluent. So how do you see the competitive battle shaping up in US credit versus MasterCard, particularly on the affluent side?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, when I look back over the last two or three years, I mean, I'm very comfortable with how we have fared and what we've done. Based on a number of things that I talked about in my remarks, I'm very bullish on where we're going to wind up in 2012 as a result of some new transactions that are on the cusp of occurring.

That doesn't mean that I don't consider MasterCard to be a formidable competitor, because they are. It doesn't mean that every time we get involved in a transaction that we'll win and they'll lose. But I'd have to say as it regards credit, we're in a pretty good position. Remember, we've talked the last two quarters about the United/Continental merger and our win in that regard.

I think, as I mentioned in my remarks, we have the best array of co-branded partners period. And that is what's driving a lot of the growth. So, we've feel like we're in a very good position.

We don't feel that that's a position through which we can rest on our laurels. We do believe that VDotMe and the wallet and the single click is going to make a difference in the credit card world as well as the debit card world. So I think we're trying to move forward in a very measured way, and we're pretty excited about our prospects. And the same goes for our international business.

OPERATOR: Ken Bruce, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

KEN BRUCE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: My question actually kind of follows on to that last one. In terms of the trends that you see within debit and credit, are you able to tell if this growth in credit is -- whether it be affluent or a broader growth in credit? You said there's actually consumers making a conscious choice to pick up a credit card versus a debit card; just as you think about those different trends, are you seeing anything that is fundamentally where consumers are choosing a credit card over a debit card? Or if that's just that a selection that issuers are pushing more credit cards versus debit?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, remember, the credit card volume has been growing quite robustly for several quarters now. And so you certainly couldn't attribute what's happening f in that product totally to Durbin and people switching. And it's too early to tell, in looking at the volumes, exactly what kind of switch there may be.

Anecdotally, of course, you know that rewards have been removed from debit cards and rewards exist on credit cards. So they're probably -- I mean, just logically, you'd have to assume that there's some movement in that regard.

Some of that's constrained by the credit-worthiness of the individuals and their credit lines. And so it's pretty complicated environment and it's a little bit difficult to say. Obviously, issuers seem to be pushing their credit businesses a little bit more strongly or a lot more strongly than they do their debit businesses at this point in time, which is what one would expect.

So I think that the jury is still out about how much something moves from one to the other, but I think it's pretty clear that you're going to see strong credit card growth, at least from Visa, in the foreseeable future.

OPERATOR: Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Byron, this is directly for you, I guess just in terms of the numbers -- and I apologize if I missed any of this -- but the 9% processed transaction growth versus the 13% data processing revenue growth -- obviously, via the effects of Durbin and some of the impacts there on debit are a big part of the decline in process; but the spread relative to the revenue growth was actually much better than expected. So, just some color in terms of why that spread went the way that it did, and for how long would this actually continue to persist before you see it fully anniversary?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes. So the data processing fees grew at 8%, but we reported, at the gross level, data processing fee growth of 13%. Of that delta, I would say 60% of it is due to the addition of CyberSource and PlaySpan transactions into the data processing line. And the other 40% is due to value-added services that show up in the other fee category of data processing.

And so those -- that explains 100% of the premium that we are earning above the growth -- the underlying growth in data processing transactions. And I would expect that that premium -- certainly, the CyberSource and PlaySpan piece will continue. We'll have to see how that plays out in the second-half of the year, as we see much more impact from -- or potential impact from implementation of the federal's.

JACK CARSKY: Jose, at this point, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: The last question does come from Bill Carcache with Nomura. Your line is open.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: I'd like to follow-up on some of your comments about Fundamo and your investments in mobile money. Does what you're doing there influence your relationship with Western Union in any way? And can you update us on whether you expect to be able to deal with some of the AML issues that arise in mobile money transfer?

And just more broadly, can you comment on where you see the costs of electronic money transfers going, especially in comparison to the -- that 500 to 600 basis points of revenues per dollar of volume that Western Union has traditionally generated? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't think that there's an absolute connection between Fundamo and Western Union and the Western Union type of business. Remember, I think Fundamo is an incredible part of our future. I think that using mobile technology to -- as an access point to Visa prepaid cards in emerging economies, where there's a lot of under-banked people, is just one of the most incredible things that I've seen coming along in quite some time.

As it relates to money transfer and Western Union, we are much more heavily involved with Western Union today, and will be in 2012 than we really ever have been before. And we are doing a number of things with them in some of the -- as it relates to money transfer in some of the emerging economies. And I'm going to kind of leave Western Union at that.

But we also, as you know, do business with MoneyGram. I mean, we are -- we're pretty invested in the money transfer business for the un-banked. We are aware of the issues that surround the transfer of money and the protections that are required, and so forth and so on. And we're doing things through people that have those infrastructures. And we're happy where we are right now. Let me say we are -- we're happy to be doing what we're doing and we will continue to endeavor to.

JACK CARSKY: Well, thank you all for joining us today. If anybody has follow-up questions, feel free to give Investor Relations a call. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference call. The call has concluded. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120223e8280005l
  


 HD
 Q4  2011  Visa  Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,479 words
   PD
26 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc. fiscal Q4 2011 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn it over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, head a Global Investor Relations. You may begin.

   TD
JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thank you very much. Good afternoon everyone. Welcome to Visa Inc. fiscal fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the Internet. It can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.Visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and, as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. These include setbacks in the global economy and the impact of new financial reform regulations. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our last 10-K on file with the SEC. It can be accessed through the SEC website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed on this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying today's earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our website.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks Jack. As always, thank you all for joining us today.

Visa closed out fiscal 2011 with a solid fourth quarter, delivering net operating revenues of $2.4 billion and a 13% increase over the same period last year. Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter were $1.27, an increase of 34% on an adjusted basis. As a reminder, our adjusted figures exclude the revaluation of the Visa Europe put option in the prior year.

Revenue gains for the quarter were driven by strong payments volume growth around the globe, strong cross-border activity, and continued recovery in credit spend worldwide. Net operating revenue growth for the quarter was impacted in part by a strategic decision to increase client incentives as Visa aggressively pursued routing decisions from US merchants and acquirers. These deals, most of which are one-time in nature, were the primary reason we modestly exceeded our annual incentive guidance of 16.5%.

Visa also delivered strong performance for the full fiscal year. Net operating revenue was a record $9.2 billion, a 14% increase over 2010. Adjusted net income for the full year was $3.5 billion, a 22% increase over the prior year. Full-year adjusted diluted earnings per share came in at $4.99, 28% ahead of last year.

While Byron will get into more specifics on fiscal 2012, we are continuing to commit to our guidance provided in July of high single to low double-digit revenue growth and mid to high teens earnings per share growth. This takes into account only modest global economic growth as well as anticipated industry reaction to the debit regulation.

Given our outlook for continued growth, we continue to deliver on our commitment to return excess cash back to shareholders. During the quarter, Visa repurchased $423 million worth of our stock at an average price of $80.87. Last week, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion, bringing our current repurchase authorization to almost $1.6 billion. As reported last week, our Board raised our dividend 47% over last year's rate to $0.88 per share on an annualized basis.

Visa is fundamentally committed to driving growth by expanding our core debit, credit, prepaid and commercial businesses, which offer tremendous potential to deliver near-term and long-term revenue growth and to deliver greater value to our financial institution and merchant clients. The goal is to grow the number of users, acceptance locations and ways to use Visa products.

All of our priorities and investments focus on expanding that core well into the future. This includes applying both the businesses we've recently acquired, which are generating revenue growth today as discrete entities, as well as the innovative technologies we're developing in-house.

Importantly, our core business is performing well today. Worldwide, Visa delivered strong growth in the September quarter with credit and debit payment volumes growing 14% and 13% respectively. Cross-border volume also posted healthy gains, increasing 15%.

As I review highlights for the quarter, let's first turn our attention to the United States. To help drive future growth, Visa finalized several deals with financial institutions over the past quarter. These include an extension of our long-term credit and debit issuance agreement with PNC Bank and long-term brand agreements with the Independent Community Bankers Association and card services for credit unions. In all cases, I firmly believe Visa's extensive industry expertise and experience were critical differentiating factors that helped secure these important wins.

We also continued to win important cobrand deals with valued partners. This includes a new agreement with Williams-Sonoma as well as the Marathon Oil cobrand mandate which is a conversion from one of our largest competitors. These build on our momentum from the United Continental Holdings agreements announced last quarter.

On the acceptance front, our ongoing strategic initiative to expand merchant acceptance is yielding important benefits. For the 12 months ended June 30, the most recent date we have available, Visa expanded US acceptance by 400,000 merchant acceptance locations. Now, we are building on that. Beginning next month, Neiman Marcus will accept Visa in all of their stores, building upon their long-standing acceptance of Visa products online.

Of course, we are moving forward on several fronts to implement our evolving debit strategies to the newly regulated US market. These activities are progressing well and quickly, and as we address the needs of -- these activities are progressing well and quickly as we address the needs of both merchants and issuers.

Our first set of activities focuses on winning merchant preference. As a reminder, US debit revenue impacted by the regulation contributes approximately 20% of Visa's total revenue today. Of that, Signature Debit contributes more than 75% of the US debit revenue. We are confident in our ability to retain the overwhelming majority of that as we move forward in the newly regulated environment.

However, to address the pockets of debit revenue at risk as a result of the regulation, particularly revenues related to PIN debit, we are moving forward quickly with a program to incent routing decisions. In fact, between the start of the fourth quarter today, Visa completed dozens of merchant deals and executed contracts with a handful of our largest acquirers.

As I noted, by expanding our incentive program to the merchant community, we increased our client incentives line for the most recent quarter. Byron will provide additional context, but I want it to be clear that I view these merchant incentive agreements as a critical aspect of Visa's business building strategy in this environment. These are investments that create strong and productive relationships with our merchant clients.

We are also moving forward with our modified debit economics, including the implementation of our network participation fee and the reduction of variable acquiring fees on Visa debit and Interlink. As stated last quarter, we believe this offers merchants a greater incentive to route transactions over our network and an opportunity to lower their per-unit transaction costs.

As for details, we anticipate providing specific pricing information to merchants and acquirers in January which will go into effect on April 1. As a result, we will begin to recognize the related revenue impact in our fiscal third quarter of 2012.

At the same time, we are intensely focused on maintaining and expanding debit issuance through strong partnerships with financial institution clients. I have been clear, since the Fed debit rules were finalized, the new legal requirements will likely result in a portion of transactions being moved away from Interlink as issuers take action to comply with the regulation. Specifically, in limited cases, this may very well result in the removal of Interlink from the card and migration to a competing network. These changes to the market are incorporated in our guidance.

A key part of our strategy positions Visa to compete for every transaction on a Visa branded debit card. To that end, earlier this year, we reminded clients that Visa check cards are enabled for PIN authentication. While merchant acquirers have historically used signature authentication for check cards, in the overwhelming majority of circumstances, Visa is fully capable of facilitating both signature and PIN debit transactions over one network, VisaNet. This is an important competitive advantage and differentiator in the new environment.

Bottom line -- as a long-term leader in debit, I am confident Visa offers issuers a differentiated suite of debit products, a robust processing platform, and economics that will help clients optimize their growth.

Turning our attention outside the United States, we are steadily expanding Visa's international business and are ahead of our stated goal of driving 50% of revenue from international markets by 2015. In fact, our international businesses grew 19% in the fourth quarter, driving 65% of Visa's overall revenue growth. Each market is distinct and requires a unique approach to drive local growth. But much like the United States, the overwhelming majority of near-term revenue growth will come from expanding Visa's core businesses, including affluent credit, debit and processing.

For one example, let's turn our attention to Latin America, where our core fundamentals are incredibly strong and Visa has increased share in each of the past five years. That is both share versus cash and checks and share versus our traditional network competition. We are building on that momentum. In Mexico, Visa signed an extensive partnership contract with BBVA Bank [Kolmer] to expand our long-standing relationship across a broad suite of products and services. This client is Visa's largest issuer and acquirer in Mexico, as well as the largest financial institution in the country.

In Brazil, we strengthened our partnership with Banco Rendimento to provide Visa processing services on prepaid products in the country. We are also engaged in productive discussions with other Brazilian clients and hope to soon announce some important transaction.

Our Asia-Pacific region also continues to deliver very strong growth with payments volume growing by 17% for the most recent quarter. Drive future growth in the region, we signed several important agreements with key clients. For example, in Australia, we secured an important agreement with Westpac Banking Group for expanded prepaid processing services.

On the merchant front, we established acceptance for Visa prepaid products at Woolworths Group, the largest retailer in Australia, a critical step towards bringing prepaid into the financial mainstream in that country.

Lastly, let's talk about innovation. We are aggressively stepping up investment in new technologies that will increase transactions on our core business platforms and add incremental value to the merchant community and create new revenue opportunities for both Visa and our clients. As technology and thus the physical and digital shopping worlds converge, Visa is building its platforms in anticipation of a broad global adoption of next-generation payment technologies, including e-commerce, mobile payments, and information products.

Over the past 18 months, we've enhanced our position by assembling what we believe are the best assets in the business, including CyberSource, PlaySpan, and Fundamo. Each of these are discrete businesses driving revenue growth today and arm Visa with best-in-class technology and capabilities to quickly bring emerging products to market. Combined with Visa technology, global reach and proven reliability and security, these new assets will enable Visa to capture significant new revenue opportunities by providing the backbone for our next-generation offerings in the US and globally.

When it comes to next-generation products, everyone is talking digital wallets. As a reminder, you don't transact with a wallet, whether it's leather or digital. You transact with what's stored in that wallet. We have spent decades successfully placing nearly 2 billion Visa cards in cardholders' wallets.

Today, when most people talk about digital wallets, they're talking about NFC payment on a mobile phone. In that regard, no company is doing more than Visa to set the stage for broad adoption. Visa's suite of wallet solutions include "Click to Buy", Touch to Buy", and "Tap to Buy" which embrace e-commerce transactions, mobile commerce transactions, and transactions at the physical point-of-sale using NFC chips.

Our top priority is making the act of purchasing online or on a mobile device as convenient as when you use your plastic card, benefiting both consumers and merchants. Today, 46% of all e-commerce transactions are conducted with a Visa product. I'm confident Visa is positioned for continued leadership in this category. To that end, we will soon begin rolling out a superior and simple online shopping experience through a "Click to Buy" payment capability which will be available on mobile devices and at home on your computer. Our "Click to Buy" and "Touch to Buy" functionality includes aliasing capabilities, requiring only a username and a password at checkout. This increases ease-of-use and customer convenience while maintaining the highest level of security for Visa cardholder accounts.

Rollout of our "Click to Buy" functionality begins in November with pilot programs in integration with merchants. Following that, we will introduce subsequent releases in the first quarter of calendar year 2012, expanding functionality to include loyalty programs and the like over the following months.

In parallel, we are committed to consumer choice and developing partnerships to ensure that core Visa products can be used easily no matter which wallet a consumer chooses to use. Our recent agreements to license payWave technology to Google Wallet and Isis are two prominent examples, and we are actively engaged with other leading players in the social networking, mobile, e-commerce and related industries.

Another important element of our innovation strategy is creating new offerings that deliver differentiated value with the tremendous data that Visa generates. Our scale and reach provide the most compelling transaction information available in the world, and we will use this data to strategically grow our business. We use that advantage today in applying aggregated anonymous data to power our Advanced Authorization Service, which has helped to drive broad rates the lowest level in years. Now we intend to extend that capability to driving even more value to consumers as well as merchants.

Let me be clear that we are 100% committed to maintaining the highest standard of security and privacy with this information. And of course, account-specific information will only be used with direct consumer permission.

One example of what Visa can do with the information products is our real-time messaging service, which brings benefits of the virtual world to the point-of-sale. We are building sales momentum and now have 14 major merchants under contract, representing 68 brands across a wide range of verticals. We are exploring ways in which this platform can be leveraged to enhance issuers' relationships with their cardholders.

Prominent partners signed during the fourth quarter include United MileagePlus, Nordstrom's, Guess, and Petco. We are working towards more deals in the near term. I strongly believe this transaction in the market is a testament to the effectiveness of this product in enhancing the value proposition Visa offers to merchants by helping to drive their customer loyalty and sales while also incenting routing decisions to Visa.

Outside the US, we are investing in innovative mobile money solutions in both developed and emerging markets, recognizing the different geographies require specifically tailored (technical difficulty). An important key to our efforts is Fundamo, the global leader in deploying mobile payment platforms for developing markets. Fundamo has a track record of more than 50 successful client deployments in 40 countries, including 27 countries in Africa, Asia and in the Middle East, and is in the process of integrating its mobile money services platform with VisaNet and an array of Visa products and services. I look forward to providing some important updates on our progress in the coming months.

So, to sum it up, I think the examples showcased by today highlight how Visa is building off of our strong foundation and moving ahead, both in the US and around the world. We are harnessing our strong core businesses, our competitive differentiators, and our ongoing focus on new technologies to position Visa for revenue growth and as a leader for the payments industry well into the future.

With that, let me turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you Joe. I'll begin with some overall observations.

First, Visa's 13% net revenue growth in the fourth quarter was once again broad-based with solid 8% growth in the United States and a very strong 19% growth rate in rest of world. Approximately 65% of the quarter's revenue growth came from outside the United States. This means non-US revenue in the quarter was 45% of Visa's total.

Second, US revenue growth has been supported by seven consecutive quarters of positive credit payment volume growth. Most recently, the months of August and September comped at 11% respectively, which continues the strong growth we have seen all year. While encouraging, much of this volume over the past year has been driven by affluent cardholders. As we enter fiscal 2012, it is worth noting that we have not yet seen any discernible broadening of the US credit spending base beyond this affluent income group.

Third, client incentives for the quarter as a percent of gross revenue were 19.5%, resulting in a full-year incentive level of 17%, slightly ahead of our full fiscal year expectation. Two incentive call outs -- first, on the issuing side, as telegraphed on our last earnings call, a disproportionate number of our contracts got signed in Q4. Second, on the acceptance side, we experienced greater success than anticipated in the signing of partnership contracts with merchants and acquirers.

Finally, operating expenses for the quarter were 2% above the prior year while on a fiscal year basis they were up 7%. During the fourth quarter, we incurred approximately $30 million of previously unplanned restructuring expenses, close to one half of which were the result of the decommissioning of our London office. The majority of these positions will be relocated to other countries, placing them closer to the clients we serve. Of course, we also incurred incremental expenses associated with the acquisitions of PlaySpan and Fundamo. Excluding the restructuring and acquisition related costs, expense growth this fiscal year was in line with our expectations for heightened investment spending to support our core businesses, our e-commerce, and mobile initiatives, as well as the growth of our CyberSource business internationally.

Now let's turn to the numbers. First, I will cover our global payment volume and process transaction trends for both the June and September quarters, as well as results through October 21. I'll then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal fourth quarter, followed by our guidance outlook for fiscal 2012.

Global payment volume growth for the September quarter in constant dollars was 13%, relatively flat from the June quarter. We saw the following breakdowns in the September quarter. In the US, payment volume growth was 9%, a slight decrease from the 10% growth we saw in the June quarter. Rest of world payment volume on a constant dollar basis grew at 18%, unchanged from the June quarter. More recently, through October 21, US payment volume growth came in at 9%. Although not yet available based on the trends we saw during the fourth quarter, we expect rest of world payment volume growth will continue to exceed the US by a comfortable margin.

Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 15% growth rate on a constant dollar basis in the September quarter, up slightly from a 14% rate in the June quarter. We continued to see a recovery in inbound travel to Japan, the Middle East and North Africa, and the longer-term trend, absent an economic downturn, appears to be back on track. Through October 21, cross-border volumes on a constant dollar basis grew 13%.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled $13 billion in the fiscal fourth quarter, a 9% increase over the prior-year period and modestly behind the 11% growth rate we saw in the June quarter. Through October 21, processed transactions posted growth of 8%.

Now, turning to the income statement, net operating revenue in the quarter was $2.4 billion, a 13% increase year-over-year, driven by strong growth in regions outside of the United States, previously enacted pricing changes, and solid cross-border transaction growth. For the full fiscal year 2011, net revenues were $9.2 billion, a 14% increase over the prior year. The foreign exchange impact on net revenue was moderated by our hedging activities and contributed 2 percentage points of growth in Q4 and on a full-year basis.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.1 billion, up 21% over the prior-year period. This is reflective of strong payment volume growth in the June quarter as well as previously enacted strategic pricing adjustments.

Data processing revenue was $925 million, up 10% over the prior year's quarter, and based on strong transaction growth rates for both Visa Process and CyberSource transactions. On that note, CyberSource posted a 31% gain in transaction over the prior year's quarter and 36% growth for the full fiscal year.

International transaction revenue was up 23% to $758 million, reflecting continued strength in cross-border volumes, strategic pricing adjustments outside the United States, and above-average currency volatility during the period.

As I highlighted earlier, client incentives for the full year came in at 17%, slightly ahead of guidance but fully consistent with our strategy to incent US merchants and acquirers to choose Visa when routing signature and PIN debit transactions.

Total operating expense for the quarter was $1 billion, up 2% from the prior year.

As a reminder, these results include operating expenses for CyberSource, PlaySpan, and Fundamo, of which the latter two were not included in Q4 of the prior year.

For the full fiscal year 2011, expenses totaled $3.7 billion, a 7% increase over the 2010 period.

As a final reminder, last October, we announced and earnings-neutral change in income statement presentation related to revenue and operating expense associated with certain pass-through activity. Consistent with this announcement, $45 million of revenue and expense which were booked in Q4 fiscal year 2010 did not recur in Q4 fiscal year 2011. In the current quarter, this represented 2 percentage points of revenue growth.

Our operating margin for the quarter was 57% after absorbing 120 basis points of impact from one-time restructuring charges. Our full fiscal year operating margin was 59%, in line with our yearly guidance.

Capital expenditures were $117 million in the quarter and totaled $353 million for the year. This was on target with last quarter's revised guidance.

On the acquisition front, the PlaySpan acquisition was EPS dilutive by $0.01 for the fourth quarter and $0.03 for the full year. The Fundamo acquisition was EPS dilutive by $0.01 in the fourth quarter and $0.02 for the full year. Finally, our reported GAAP tax rate for Q4 was 35% and 35.5% for the full year. Adjusting to exclude the beneficial impact of the put revaluation last quarter, the tax rate would have been 36.3% for the fiscal year, consistent with our guidance.

As Joe mentioned, we were buyers of our stock during the quarter, repurchasing 5.2 million shares at an average price of $80.87. For the full fiscal year, Visa spent $3.2 billion to effectively repurchase 43 million shares at an average price of $74.94. Inclusive of dividend payments, we returned over $3.6 billion to our shareholders in fiscal 2011.

At the end of the quarter, we had 687 million shares outstanding on an as-converted basis. Fully diluted shares outstanding totaled 692 million. Visa remains committed to returning excess cash to shareholders, and to this end, as Joe mentioned at the outset, our Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion increase to our existing share repurchase plan. Our current open to buy now stands at approximately $1.6 billion. As has been our practice, we will execute trades at prices we feel are attractive, relative to the long-term value of Visa. We also raised our annual dividend 47% to $0.88 per share, which represents a payout ratio of about 17% on 2011 adjusted earnings.

Finally, our guidance for fiscal 2012. Last quarter, we communicated to you our expectation for revenue and earnings. As Joe said at the outset, we remain comfortable with that initial look -- net revenue growth in the high single to low double-digit range, and diluted EPS growth in the mid to high teens.

Client incentives are expected to range from 17% to 18% of gross revenues. The modest uptick over fiscal 2011 is driven by a growing level of incentives for financial institutions outside the United States in combination with incentive contracts with large merchants aimed at influencing routing decisions for Visa debit transactions.

Marketing expense is projected to be under $1 billion. While somewhat higher than the past two years, it is reflective of incremental investment to support our key country growth strategies, our new product initiatives, recent acquisitions, as well as some modest incremental spend associated with Visa sponsorship of the Summer Olympic Games.

Operating margin is expected to remain at about 60%. The cash tax rate is expected to be in the 33% to 34% range. This reduction anticipates a change in the formula for calculating our state tax rate, as well as our initial filing for foreign tax credit. Since this lower tax rate is expected to be ongoing, it will likely result in a revaluation of our deferred tax liability. This one-time non-cash adjustment may reduce Visa's tax rate an additional 1 to 2 percentage points for the year. However, to be clear, our adjusted earnings per share growth target for 2012 assumes a 33% to 34% cash rate.

Capital expenditures are projected to range from $350 million to $400 million. This represents a modest increase over the $353 million we spent in 2011 and fully funds investments we are making across the globe in support of our core business, as well as our mobile and e-commerce initiative.

Finally, we expect free cash flow above $4 billion. Our priorities for use of this cash remain the same -- first, reinvesting in the business; second, appropriate acquisitions; and third, distribution to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

As to fiscal 2013 guidance, as we previously stated in July, we expect an acceleration of revenue and EPS off 2012 levels. We will provide additional clarity around 2013 as we approach the beginning of that fiscal year.

With that, operator, we are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Bob Napoli, William Blair.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & CO.: Thank you. Good afternoon. A question on the incentives. What are the lengths of terms of the merchant contracts, and would we expect to see the incentives higher earlier in the year as you continue to aggressively negotiate these routing incentives with the merchants?

BYRON POLLITT: Byron. The answer is the -- let's say the average length of the merchant contracts that we've been signing at are about two years.

To your second question I would say no, they would be more back-end of your weighted, once we begin to see what the actual routing experience is related to those contracts. Much of what was booked in the fourth quarter was one-time. Therefore, the bulk of the incentives associated with this will be validated during the course of the year once we understand what the actual routing experience is.

OPERATOR: Jason Kupferberg, Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks guys. Just wanted to ask a question related to the non-US side of the business. Obviously the growth remains very strong there. I wanted to get a directional sense on the kind of revenue yield you are seeing outside the US versus inside the US. I guess we tend to think that it's less outside the US because you aren't processing as much or as many of your own transactions there. So just wanted to get a sense that if we continue to see this trend of non-US growing revs and volumes faster than the US, what does that imply for overall operating margins over the longer term as you continue to go through that mix shift and ultimately get non-US to be north of 50% of total revs?

JOE SAUNDERS: We don't -- we've never disclosed what the revenues are in countries outside the United States. Obviously, when we're not processing, there is a different yield structure -- I just have to say that what is growing our net revenues as a percentage of our total net revenues. So net of incentives, these are the revenues that we're booking, and so I think that's a pretty good news story.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, let me add two dynamics here. As we begin to grow and penetrate outside the United States, remember the first areas that are penetrated tend to be cross-volume, cross-border types of transactions. So the yields there are early in the development curve are much higher.

As we begin to penetrate more and more domestic payment volume of countries outside the United States, domestic comes with less international. Therefore, the yields, frankly in any country, including the United States, will naturally move down as domestic picks up a bigger piece of the payment volume.

Then there is one final dynamic, which is actually important to understanding how our incentives behave in 2012, which is when we originally went public, the notion of having multi-year contracts was primarily a US phenomenon. What has happened over time is that we have pursued a deliberate strategy of entering into multi-year contracts with our major clients. As we have pursued that aggressively outside the United States, the quid pro quo for a multi-year contract is incentives. So as we put more -- as our volumes build overseas, as more and more of our clients are under multi-year contract, our incentives will just naturally rise, which then has an impact on yield.

So to sum, the most important element is what Joe said. We have a much higher degree of processing penetration in the US. Outside the US, because of that, it tends to be lower, but we pursue the strategies that optimize the growth of our revenue, and it is revenue measured in dollars we [solve] for, not yield.

OPERATOR: Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, good afternoon. Just I guess I want to ask about client [centers] as well. Just in the quarter, to clarify, now are these one-timers designed to secure -- I think you said it was for merchant commitments, but did you also secures some network commitments from the issuers as well? Is there a way to quantify what percent of at-risk volume you've actually protected?

BYRON POLLITT: It's merchants and acquirers, not issuers, which have been the focus. These contracts don't guarantee volume. What they do is they incent volume. At this point, we're not public on the amount of volume, but it is a meaningful increment of volume that is influenced by these contracts.

JOE SAUNDERS: As I mentioned in the script, we signed PNC to a longer-term contract, and we obviously have continued negotiations going on with all of our clients. While what Byron is talking about is generally the PIN volume and the decision to route the transaction that's in the hands of the merchant or the acquirer, there still are decisions that issuers make as it relates to the signature portion of the card. We have -- and we're in a very comfortable position as it relates to that.

OPERATOR: Glenn Fodor, Morgan Stanley.

GLENN FODOR, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks for taking my question. A lot of good color on the call here. We're getting a lot of questions on the impact on debit growth from all these checking and DDA fees the banks are levying. So I think if you give us some color it could kind of help investors out quite a bit. What's your take on how this could impact volume growth going forward? Can you draw any correlations to other experiences in the payments industry to kind of defend your view?

JOE SAUNDERS: First of all, I think the banks are clearly making recent business decisions to adapt in this newly regulated environment. All of the banks recognize that their customers have an option to move to a competitor, but they believe, in whatever case you're talking about, that their pricing or their future pricing will reflect the value -- will reflect value that they offer to their customers and the value that the customers bring to them. That being said, I don't believe that anything that's happening is going to substantially alter the macro debit volume in the United States. I don't think it's going to go away. Even the one fee that has been specifically announced is a flat fee. It doesn't make any difference -- it's not upper-transaction fee or anything of that nature. I think that, as a result of the recession and a result of the Card Act, as a result of the Durbin legislation, you're also seeing a lot more activity wind up in prepaid cards. Our growth in that regard, which is really part of our debit processing environment, is very significant also.

OPERATOR: Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just wanted to go back to one item that I know came up during the quarter about small ticket items and the pricing on those transactions. Can you guys go back and walk us through what the sort of situation is there in terms of what pricing looks like, and maybe how some of the potential unintended consequences are being resolved with small ticket merchants?

JOE SAUNDERS: That's a good question. The answer is that there were a series of events that occurred and the end result was that small ticket prices from both associations were raised to the cap of the Durbin legislation. I'm not sure that -- I'm not ready to comment on whether that is absolutely the right thing to do or not. What I will say is that we're pretty confident that there is an answer somewhere on the continuum that will benefit both financial institutions, consumers, and merchants. Of course, we will endeavor to be a part of getting to the right solution over a reasonably short period of time.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane, Deutsche Bank.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi guys. I just wanted to ask Byron about the incentive of the merchants. You said the incentives for routing are for both signature and PIN. Just wanted to ask about the signature piece. What would you be incentivizing them for? Maybe you can explain that.

Kind of semi related to that, do you guys think that some volume will go more towards PIN debit than signature debit in the marketplace and maybe why that would be? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: So probably better expressed is these are incentive agreements to deliver payment volume, whether it is signature or whether it is PIN, and so that's the way to characterize that. We'll just have to see how this plays out in terms of movement between signature and PIN. From our standpoint, it's important to preserve the routing. That's what we're focused on, and whether it's signature or PIN, we'll take both.

JOE SAUNDERS: Remember, when we incent merchants to deliver volume, there's a lot of things that they can do in-store or otherwise with their customers that incent their customers to use Visa cards. We've done that over the years in a pretty significant way, and we'll continue to do that. But it's important, so Byron's point of incenting merchants to deliver volume is exactly the right direction.

OPERATOR: Darrin Peller, Barclays Capital.

DARRIN PELLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks guys. Just when you guys had initially given guidance after some of the Durbin announcements, there was -- it was a discussion with conservatism embedded in the guidance around what Durbin could mean. Just wondering. Since that point, there's been some comments I think Joe you've made since that point that have suggested that I think you think you're going to come out okay on this. I'm just wondering. Has anything changed in your expectations around what Durbin will impact your revenue by or your earnings power by? Then maybe talk a little bit about also whether or not some of the embedded assumptions on conservatism in guidance have shifted from Durbin to the macro picture?

JOE SAUNDERS: Obviously the macro picture, Durbin, our business outside the United States, our prepaid and commercial businesses -- when we give guidance, we embrace all of those things. So we gave guidance several months ago. We're delivering the same guidance today. We remain extraordinarily comfortable with that guidance. Everything that we think about Durbin, about the economy, about our competitive position is embraced within that guidance. Right now, we're very happy with where we are and what we're suggesting that we're going to do. We'll see where it goes. But there is nothing that's happened in the last several months that would change our position on this.

OPERATOR: Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO. INC.: So back in late September, we heard from industry contacts that Visa is moving to what we've been calling a common switch strategy. So I wanted to ask about the revenue implications of the common switch strategy. You alluded to this capability in your opening remarks. In particular, will PIN transactions on VisaNet be priced the same as Interlink PIN transactions in terms of network fees charged to both merchants and issuers? If you can comment on the issuers receiving this common switch strategy with open arms at this point?

JOE SAUNDERS: We are pursuing the strategy. We're comfortable with it. We're -- I mentioned it earlier today. We haven't had any negative reaction that I'm aware of. There is some work that needs to take place, but it is a rule and I have no reason to believe that people won't adhere to it. In order to compete for a routing transaction in a predominately PIN environment, it's going to have to be at similar pricing or the same pricing or lower pricing and it's got to be Interlink type pricing, or we won't win the transaction side. I think that answers that question.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great. I was wondering. Not to beat the incentives thing too much to death, but you mentioned the a large portion of them were one-time. Did that include the incentives that went to merchants, because I just was hoping you could explain how that would kind of spur them to bring volume with one-time incentives. Could you just also walked through the signature/PIN, the ability to route over the signature network the PIN transactions that you alluded to.

JOE SAUNDERS: Let me take a second part of the question first and then I think I'll turn it over to Byron. But the ability to accept a PIN on our debit card network or our signature network is something that has existed for quite some time. We authorize millions of transactions a year, billions, which PIN numbers are used on our signature debit card. We always have. We are -- we have defined it more specifically to make sure that everybody understands the capability and hasn't lost the functionality to be able to do that. But it has been a part of our Signature card for many, many years.

BYRON POLLITT: And to answer the first part of the question, the answer is yes, that the one-timers we're referring to were predominantly associated with the merchant and acquirer contracts referenced earlier.

OPERATOR: David Togut, Evercore Partners.

DAVID TOGUT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Good afternoon. Could you give us or quantify, if you will, Byron, the US debit volume growth trends you've seen since interchange was cut 45% for issuers on October 1?

BYRON POLLITT: Way too -- honestly, it's way too early to comment on that. The -- so we have seen no discernible change in US debit volume associated with that October 1 date with the shift in interchange. That is something that we will give periodic updates on, of course, as the year unfolds. We're as interested in that as you are.

OPERATOR: Moshe Katri, Cowen.

MOSHE KATRI, ANALYST, COWEN & CO.: Thanks. So considering some of the structural changes that are taking place on the debit side, is Visa doing anything different to maybe gain share in credit? Then in that respect, can you also comment on whether some of the slow-down that we've seen as of October in some of the metrics -- is there anything you can comment on that? Is there anything you can -- can you say anything about that in terms of maybe a proxy for future trends? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Why don't I take the second part first. We -- the trends that we outlined earlier in my talk demonstrated a pretty strong September [resonating] quarter. So I would say whether you're looking at the US or whether you're looking at rest of world, those were pretty strong growth numbers. It didn't look like we were missing a beat. I'm looking at the numbers now split between credit and debit. Both of them look pretty strong, US and rest of world. On top of that, these numbers are comping some pretty serious growth numbers in the prior year. When we move into October, recognizing that's only 21 days, I think, in any given month, that is hardly a trend for a quarter. I would say that there is nothing in the trend data yet to show any material shift in the trend curve.

JOE SAUNDERS: As it relates to pursuing credit card business, that is one of our primary focuses. I think we've talked about it before. I think we've talked about the relationships we have with our clients. We talked about partnerships that we signed in the talk today and we're very pleased with where we are, and we are extraordinarily client-focused and we are working with each of our clients on an individual basis to help them develop a credit card strategy, particularly if they want to expand it, and many of them do. I think that will be one of the big success stories of 2012.

OPERATOR: Glenn Greene, Oppenheimer.

GLENN GREENE, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I just wanted to ask about -- it was kind of noticeable that US credit volume growth outpaced debit volume growth in the quarter. It was probably the first time and I would guess years. I was wondering if you could give some commentary on what sort of drove that. Was it -- did it perhaps have to do with some competitive factors, i.e. some customer losses, or maybe some customer response related to Durbin to drive credit volumes in lieu of debt? Just some color and commentary there.

BYRON POLLITT: So you're right. This is -- I'm looking at the data right now. This is the seventh consecutive quarter of credit card year-over-year growth. Eight quarters ago, it was actually negative. I think what we're seeing here is just a continuation of a recovery. The recession hit credit hard and it actually turned growth negative. I'm speaking here of the US. And so in the first quarter of recovery, which was second quarter, our second fiscal quarter 2010, growth was 3% year-over-year. It has gradually moved up, so that now it's, for the quarter just ended, it's 10%, 10% in October. So for us, this has been a gradual return to credit. It's been a sustained but very modestly paced build. Then as you may recall from my earnings commentary today and really over the past several quarters, this is a credit recovery that is, primarily in the US, affluence driven and that through the quarter, through I would say the June quarter, which is the data where we have more granular data, this growth is primarily affluent, and we haven't really seen a broadening of the credit base yet. So that's in terms of increase in growth and spend. So that is the opportunity to come. With further recovery, we expect credit to benefit -- future credit benefit -- growth to benefit from that expanded set of cardholders.

JACK CARSKY: At this point, we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Dan Perlin, RBC Capital.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. As we look at the trends for worldwide process transactions, and I know that the absolute number of transactions are still relatively high, but that trend has been coming down throughout the year, and then most recent data, Byron, that you pointed to is around 8%, so it continues to be kind on the downward slope. So I'm wondering what do you attribute that to?

Then secondly, to the extent that trend continues, do you feel like your business and your strategy going forward is such that you can drive incremental revenue growth I think from a greater standpoint from increasing prices throughout the year as opposed to just kind of the secular volume growth? Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: Our focus on growth is primarily the secular growth. We are not looking to drive any material topline revenue growth from pricing, recognizing that when we talk about pricing, that's pricing net of incentives. So it's one thing to adjust your pricing at the top level, but in the end, it's your net pricing that really matters. And so it is primarily secular growth, which is one of the reasons why we continue to emphasize how much growth we are now delivering outside the United States.

In the quarter just ended, 65% of our growth, our revenue growth, came from outside the United States. In the fourth quarter, 45% of our entire revenue base is now outside the United States. As you know, we have an objective to drive that over 50%, and that is absolutely secular growth.

With regards to the process transaction growth, that is primarily attributable to two things -- one, a slowing in the growth rate of US debit; and then second, a year ago, we began -- we had some significant increases in transaction penetration outside the United States which are now beginning to anniversary. And so where we are today in that drift down into high single digits in terms of Visa process transactions is primarily influenced by those two factors for the moment. But we have -- we are very focused in our future strategies at increasing Visa process transactions, increasing the number, the percent of transactions, particularly outside the United States, that Visa processes as a function of the total transactions that are performed on Visa cards. That's where we stand.

JACK CARSKY: Thank you Jose. Thank you all for joining us today. If anybody has any follow-up questions, feel free to give Investor Relations a shout.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference call. The call has concluded. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111109e7aq009kh
  


 HD
 Q3  2011  Visa  Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,235 words
   PD
27 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal Q3 2011 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thank you, Jose. Good afternoon and welcome to Visa's fiscal 2011 third-quarter conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, who is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, who is the Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the Internet and can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days.

A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call. Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and as a result of variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements.

These include setbacks in the global economy and the impact of new financial reform regulations. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our last 10-K on file with the SEC. It can be accessed through the SEC website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed on this call the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal third-quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our website.

With that I will turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Jack, and as always, thank you all for joining us today. Visa delivered another quarter of strong financial performance posting net operating revenues of more than $2.3 billion, a 14% increase over the same period last year. These revenue gains were driven by double-digit payments volume growth around the globe, strong cross-border activity, and continued recovery in credit spend worldwide.

Adjusted net income for the quarter, which excludes the gain from revaluing the Visa Europe put option was $883 million, a 23% increase over last year. This equates to adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.26, a 29% increase over the third quarter of 2010.

Our performance over the past quarter reaffirms Visa's solid business foundation and strategy, including our diversified product and services offering, our strong client relationships, and our commitment to accelerating growth in key markets worldwide.

Before turning to the business highlights, I would like to update you on Visa's activities to adapt to the new United States regulatory environment. As stated during our update call on July 6, overall I continue to expect the impact resulting from regulation to be dilutive, but manageable, with fiscal 2012 bearing the majority of the financial impact.

It is important to appreciate that we were prepared for a wide range of outcomes. And with the Federal Reserve's final rules in hand, we have the clarity needed to execute on our strategy.

We are now moving forward on multiple fronts and with a variety of new offerings for our clients. Today I would like to share with you at a high-level review of our areas of focus. We will offer additional detail in the coming quarters once we have had the opportunity to further discuss these strategies with our clients and partners.

Regulation has dramatically altered the competitive environment in the United States and given merchants broad discretion over how transactions will be routed. Recognizing this new dynamic, we are resetting our business approach and implementing a number of new strategies for all products.

Specifically for debit we will continue to focus on maintaining Visa debit issuance through strong partnerships with our issuing clients, thereby positioning Visa to compete for as many transactions as possible.

Equally important, we will ensure that Visa is positioned to compete for routing for merchants and acquirers by strengthening these important relationships.

We are adapting Visa's business to deliver even more value to all participants in the value chain, while preserving our ability to grow and positioning Visa for continued leadership in the US.

Our approach is based on multiple actions which were incorporated into the guidance we provided earlier this month. I'm going to address two of them now. First, we are modifying our economics in a way that we expect will result in a reduction in merchant costs in total and on the margin.

The modifications include both fixed processing fees and a reduction in variable fees. We expect this will help us win routing decisions and maintain debit volume in the new environment.

Specifically, Visa is implementing a new fixed acquirer fee called the Network Participation Fee, which will apply to the acceptance of all Visa products, and is based on both the size of the merchant and the number of merchant locations. This fee will allow Visa to continue investing in our secure, reliable and interoperable Global Payments network, a long-standing area of strength for our organization.

These attributes are cornerstones of Visa's brand promise, and it is critical that we make ongoing upgrades, innovations and enhancements. In fact, Visa facilitates issuer stand-in processing each day for more than 600,000 transactions, minimizing system disruption and ensuring more transactions get completed.

In order to reduce these in the aggregate, Visa will also lower our variable processing fees for all Visa debit products across all merchant segments. That combination of fixed and variable fees offers merchants an even greater incentive to route more transactions over our network by providing them an opportunity to lower their per-unit transaction costs and take advantage of economies of scale that are now more readily available to them.

As I said a few moments ago, our 2012 guidance, which incorporates the reductions we expect in Visa's debit volumes and fees -- in the fees we charge also reflects our appreciation that regulation has changed the landscape in which we operate.

We recognize that we need to focus more than ever on delivering greater value to both issuers and merchants to win debit routing, while continuing to grow our successful credit business. In that regard, we are taking multiple actions to ensure we are well-positioned to compete for both issuance and routing.

We will extend to merchants of all sizes through direct negotiations and through acquirers the successful partnership programs we have historically offered issuers. We will also increase our engagement with merchant associations to achieve the same goal. Now a broad set of acquirers and merchants can receive incentives from Visa in exchange for routing commitment.

The second core element of our strategy focuses on additional investments in value-added services aimed at winning routing decisions. These include powerful merchant benchmark analytics, loyalty rewards programs and real time mobile messaging to drive merchant sales growth.

For example, we continue to make progress on a real-time messaging program, including the Gap's recent decision to expand their existing program across more brands in their portfolio, as well as new agreements with The Sports Authority and the Kangaroo Express, a leading convenience store operator in the Southeastern United States with more than 1,600 locations.

With these actions we are resetting our baseline economics for debit in United States and positioning Visa to grow from here. We are 100% prepared. We are fully engaged with our key stakeholders. We are focused on their needs and we are moving forward.

Taken together, our strategies will provide Visa with a strong foundation to adapt to the new landscape, while also generating sufficient revenue to make the investments needed to drive forward the future of this industry.

Of course, while the regulatory process generated headlines over the past 13 months, the overwhelming majority of Visa's revenues are derived from products and geographies that are completely untouched by these events. In that regard, I am pleased to say that Visa's employees maintained their focus and continued to advance our growth agenda.

In the US we saw continued strong performance in credit, posting Visa's sixth consecutive quarter of positive growth. Of note, affluent credit posted particularly strong performance, growing three times faster than the overall credit category.

Building on that success, we announced a multiyear agreement with United Continental Holdings to continue to issue co-branded Mileage Plus Visa card. The recent merger of United and Continental Airlines will result in the consolidation of their portfolios under Mileage Plus, and the combined entity will begin exclusively issuing Mileage Plus Visa cards to all new customers beginning January 1, 2012.

An important aspect of this major co-brand program is the proportionally larger number of affluent card carriers and the greater cost order volume uses associated with Mileage Plus Visa card, both big benefits to Visa's overall growth.

Another key renewal was with Disney, with whom we have enjoyed an important co-branding and promotional relationship for many years. Outside of the US international markets are an increasingly important contributor to Visa's growth, increasing payment volume by 17%, which is driving approximately 60% of the Company's overall revenue growth.

In-line with our strategic aspiration to grow Visa's business outside the US, we continue to make progress on our long-standing commitment to invest in key markets that show the greatest potential. In critical markets including Brazil, Russia, Japan, the GCC, Mexico and sub-Saharan Africa, we have tailored acceleration plans to substantially increase revenue growth over a five-year horizon. We will continue to target additional countries for investment in 2012 and beyond.

For example, in Russia one of the fastest-growing countries globally, we are focused on delivering the core Visa product of value proposition and continuing to expand acceptance. We are investing to enhance mass credit and premium credit offerings, and delivering products like prepaid and Visa Money Transfer to our Russian issuers and consumers.

In Brazil, where the acquiring landscape is changing, Visa is accelerating growth of processed transactions versus new acquirer relationships and renewing issuing partnerships. We continue to differentiate ourselves by delivering superior products across our core portfolio of credit, debit, small business and commercial solutions.

We also continue to advance our core product growth in India, establishing new or expanded agreements with several large clients, including the Life Insurance Corporation of India, as well as the State Bank of India.

As I mentioned earlier in the quarter, we signed a multiyear agreement to support Visa debit products across the State Bank of India franchise. In just a few short months over 1 million Visa debit cards have been issued as part this program.

In Japan we are accelerating growth by driving more sophisticated product offerings, such as co-brand programs with major issuers, merchants and commercial card programs that deliver solutions to more mature electronic payment environments.

For example, we recently launched a debit program with Resona Bank, Japan's fourth-largest financial institution. It is our first traditional debit program in that market, and we are hopeful that will lead to similar programs with other clients, accelerating the migration towards electronic payment in Japan's traditionally cash-centric economy.

We are partnering with clients and governments and investing in long-term growth in developing markets in Africa, Latin America and South Asia to accelerate efforts to advance financial inclusion and ultimately grow domestic transaction flow.

On the innovation front we have taken several steps to bring new products and solutions to market. We continue to make progress on Visa's next-generation e-commerce and mobile payment solutions announced in May, including a focus on single click and aliasing capabilities. We believe these elements of the Visa offering will help to differentiate and deliver value to the other [NSC-only] solutions recently announced. This remains a top priority for the organization and we are moving full speed ahead towards broad commercial availability.

As we have said all along, Visa firmly believes an open approach is the key to success in mobile commerce. So in addition to building Visa's own capability, our strategy must also enable Visa payments on third-party platforms. That is why last week we announced an agreement with Isis to join their consortium, and we continue to engage in productive discussions with other potential partners.

Part our efforts to make mobile a reality in emerging markets, we completed our acquisition of Fundamo, a leading mobile wallet software provider for emerging markets, with over 40 programs in more than 25 countries. I can report that the integration is progressing well, and we are now focused on building managed services for issuers and mobile operators around the Fundamo platform.

Additionally, we are developing capabilities to overlay a virtual Visa prepaid account on the closed loop accounts managed by Fundamo and other wallet platforms. Since our announcement we have received substantial interest from issuers and mobile operators in Asia and Latin America.

We also taking action to further tap into the creativity and the expertise of the developer community, an increasingly critical participant in the creation and rollout of new payment technology. Today our existing developer center has more than 6,000 active developers using our tools and resources to build Visa payment functionality into websites for mobile applications, which in turn brings more merchants into the Visa network, ultimately driving transactions and payments growth.

Additionally, through the center Visa helps reduce e-commerce transaction risk, which means even more transactions are approved and flow through the network. This makes Visa a more attractive payments network partner.

To accelerate these efforts we will launch our expanded Visa developer center in the current quarter, combining our existing PlaySpan and CyberSource developer activities into a single platform, while also introducing direct connectivity to VisaNet for the first time.

By connecting directly to VisaNet we can offer our merchant partners and financial institution customers faster and easier access to Visa products and services, making them more competitive and ultimately driving incremental revenue growth.

On the e-commerce front, CyberSource's business continues to gain traction in the marketplace. During the quarter billable transactions totaled just over 1 billion, a very strong 38% growth rate over the same period a year ago.

We secured a number of new business wins with major merchants, including Twitter and ptorno. We continue to expect solid results in this part of our business as e-commerce growth remains strong in the United States and internationally.

Finally, we continue to deliver on our long-standing commitment to return excess cash to shareholders. Today we are pleased to announce that our Board recently authorized a new $1 billion share repurchase program. This comes on the heels of completing our $1 billion share repurchase program authorized in April.

At approximately $77 per share we retired 13.7 million shares in the quarter. This brings our repurchases in physical 2011, including escrow funding actions, to $2.8 billion.

In conclusion, as we reorient the US debit business in the wake of the new regulations, we will simultaneously pursue our growth strategies both at home and abroad. Our commitment to our clients, new product rollouts, and ongoing innovation combine to make Visa's value proposition more compelling than ever. And we are prepared to use our comprehensive array of products and functionalities to win in the marketplace.

Visa remains a strong, globally oriented growth company as we move ahead. With that, let me turn the call over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. I will begin with some overall observations. First, Visa's 14% net revenue growth was once again broad-based, with solid 9% growth in the US and a very strong 22% growth rate in rest of world. Over 62% of the quarter's revenue growth came from outside the United States. This means non-US revenue is now 44% of Visa's total, up from 41% in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010.

Second, US revenue growth has been supported by six consecutive quarters of positive credit payment volume growth. Most recently the months of May and June comped at 8% and 12%, respectively, which continues the strong growth we have seen all year.

We continue to be encouraged by this trend. Third, client incentives for the quarter. As a percentage of gross revenue we are 16.2% down from 16.7% in the second quarter. Through the first three quarters of the year incentives as a percentage of gross revenue was 16.1%, in-line with the lower end of our guidance.

However, as we stated on our update call on July 6, we expect client incentives for the full fiscal year to be at the top end of the 16% to 16.5% range, based on the pacing of our contract pipeline from potential Q4 partnership contracts that provide merchant incentives aimed at further encouraging Visa routing preference.

Fourth, as first discussed back in January, we sold our 10% stake in Visa Vale, the Brazilian prepaid issuer. Though we expected to book again as investment income in our second quarter, we actually recruited recorded again in Q3 once we received the necessary Brazilian regulatory approval. The net benefit to Visa in the quarter was $85 million pretax and $44 million after tax.

Finally, as we did in the fourth fiscal quarter last year, we revalued the Visa Europe put option which had a positive non-cash impact to our earnings this quarter. The $122 million decrease in the value of the option is nontaxable, is reported in other income, and is solely due to declines in Visa's P/E ratio relative to historical levels. It does not reflect any change in the likelihood that Visa Europe will exercise the put.

The put option is now valued on our balance sheet come, at $145 million. Eliminating this impact provides a cleaner picture of our operating performance and yields and adjusted earnings per share of $1.26 for the quarter.

Now let's turn to the numbers. First, I will cover our global payment volume and transaction trends for both the March and June quarters, as well as results through July 21. I will then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal third-quarter, followed by our guidance outlook for fiscal years 2011 and 2012.

Global payment volume growth for the June quarter in constant dollars were 13%, relatively flat from the March quarter. We saw the following breakdowns in the June quarter. In the US payment volume growth was 10%, a slight decrease from the 12% growth we saw in the March quarter. Rest of world payment volume on a constant dollar basis grew at 17%, up 2 points from the 15% growth rate in the March quarter.

More recently, through July 21, US payment volume growth came in at 10%. Although not yet available, based on the trends we saw during the third quarter, we expect rest of world payment volume growth to be higher.

Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 14% growth rate on a constant dollar basis in the June quarter, up slightly from a 13% rate in the March quarter. We have seen some rebound in inbound travel to Japan, the Middle East, and North Africa, but it is still too early to gauge the longer-term trend. Through July 21 cross-border volumes on a constant dollar basis grew 18%.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled 13 billion in the fiscal third quarter, an 11% increase over the year ago period. And modestly behind the 13% growth rate we saw in the March quarter. Through July 21 processed transactions posted growth of 10% on.

Now turning to the income statement. In our fiscal third-quarter gross revenue of $2.8 billion was up 14% from the similar period in 2010. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $2.3 billion, a 14% increase year-over-year, driven by strong growth in regions outside of the US, continued recovery in the US economy, previously enacted pricing changes, and solid cross-border transaction growth.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.1 billion, up 21% over the prior year period. This is reflective of strong payment volume growth in the March quarter and the impact of prior pricing adjustments.

Data processing revenue was $886 million, up 12% over the prior year's quarter, based on strong transaction growth rates for both Visa process and CyberSource transactions.

International transaction revenue was up 15% to $662 million, reflecting continued strength in cross-border volumes during the period. As I mentioned, client incentives as a percentage of gross revenue came in at 16.2% and are running at 16.1% fiscal year to date, on track with expectations.

Total operating expenses for the quarter was $977 million, up 10% from the prior year. As a reminder, these results include operating expenses for CyberSource, PlaySpan and Fundamo, none of which were included in Q3 of the prior year.

While marketing expense was up approximately $70 million on a sequential quarter basis, this was due to the timing of planned campaigns and is consistent with our full-year guidance of less than $900 million.

In the US we have continued to right-size our spend and refine our marketing focus to put greater investment toward digital media. We have also focused on marketing efforts on driving greater cross-border transaction growth.

As a reminder, last October we announced an earnings neutral change in income statement presentations related to revenue and operating expense associated with certain pass-through activities. Consistent with this announcement, $62 million of revenue and expense, which was booked in Q3 fiscal year 2010 did not recur in Q3 fiscal year 2011. In Q3 this represented 3 percentage points of revenue growth.

The foreign exchange impact on net revenue in the third fiscal quarter was moderated by our hedging activities and contributed 2 percentage points of growth. Our operating margin for the quarter was 58%, on target with our expectation for the full year.

Capital expenditures were $89 million in the quarter and now total $236 million year-to-date. Given the pace of our investment in technology, infrastructure and growth initiatives, we now expect our full-year 2011 capital spending to be moderately above $300 million.

On the acquisition front, the PlaySpan acquisition had a dilutive impact to earnings per share of $0.01 for the third quarter. For the full year of 2011 we anticipate a dilutive impact to earnings per share of $0.04.

The Fundamo acquisition had a dilutive impact to earnings per share of $0.01 for the third quarter. Full-year EPS dilution is also expected to be $0.01.

Finally, our reported tax rate for the period was 35%, including the favorable impact from the nontaxable revaluation of the Visa Europe put option. Adjusting to exclude the put impact, the tax rate would have been 38%. On an as-adjusted basis we continue to expect our full-year tax rate to be consistent with our guidance.

As we announced on July 6, we completed the $1 billion share repurchase program authorized by our Board in April. During the quarter we spent $1.1 billion to repurchase 13.7 million shares at an average price of $77.36. Year-to-date Visa has spent $2.8 billion to effectively repurchase 37.8 million shares at an average price of $74.12. At the end of the quarter we had 691 million shares outstanding on an as-converted basis.

Visa remains committed to returning excess cash to shareholders, and to this end, as Joe mentioned at the outset, our Board of Directors authorized a new $1 billion repurchase plan through July 20, 2012, which we will execute at prices we feel are attractive relative to the long-term value of Visa.

As to guidance for the balance of 2011, given results to date and to reiterate what we tell you on the July 6 call, we expect to deliver revenue growth in the 11% to 15% range, and EPS growth of better than 20%. Client incentives are expected to come in at the top end of the 16% to 16.5% range. And we are now expecting capital expenditures to be moderately above $300 million for the year, up from our prior range of $250 million to $275 million.

Our net revenue outlook for 2012 stands at high-single to low double-digit growth, while earnings-per-share growth is expected to be in the mid to high teens range. We will have additional guidance metrics for fiscal 2012 when we record our fourth-quarter earnings in October.

With that, we are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). To ensure all questioners are heard, we ask that you please limit yourself to one question. (Operator Instructions). Jason Kupferberg, Jefferies.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: I just wanted to ask a question on the network participation fee. And thanks for the disclosures around some of your post-Durbin strategies there. Can you talk a little bit about that network participation fee in the context of some of the -- what sounded like are fee reductions for merchants and merchant acquirers?

I am just trying to understand from the Visa point of view how do you envision all of that netting out on the merchant/acquiring side of your business?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think that our intention is clear in that, that is to affect this change in our infrastructure, while at the same time reducing fees to all merchants in every category. So the variable fee reductions are, obviously, an offset to a fixed fee.

If you look at our 2012 guidance it presumes that there will be a deterioration in our debit card revenues for the year. We said that 2012 will be the low point. So that is the net result. The net result is that we won't do as well as we herefor in the debit card business, at least in 2012. Hopefully, we can grow off of what we do in 2012 and 2013.

But what we have done is, in our opinion, consistent with helping to ensure that Visa will be successful in the long run, and done within the spirit and the intention of the regulation.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KBW: I was just hoping to get a little bit more color on the expense lines on a go forward basis. The personnel and admin lines were fairly elevated. I was just wondering is that the run rate to consider on a go forward basis?

Also, just the card service fee margin, that seemed a little lighter for this quarter sequentially relevant to past quarters. I was just hoping for some color there. Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: On the personnel in particular, the expense line items, no, that would -- at least on a percentage increase that is not the run rate. So in the personnel line in particular a little over 55% of the year-over-year increase is due to the personnel costs associated with CyberSource, PlaySpan and Fundamo, none of which were in Q3 of the prior year.

So we will have a lapping for one more quarter for CyberSource, a few more quarters for the other two. And we will give more color on the run rate with regards to expenses in the context of our margin -- operating margin at the Q4 earnings call.

No real call-outs on the service fee. We were pretty pleased with the yields, which held pretty firm for sequentially over the two quarters. So from that vantage point no call-outs.

OPERATOR: Don Fandetti, Citigroup.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Joe, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit on the new debit pricing strategy, how the issuers might be thinking about that, just given the issues that you try to balance between the merchant acquirers and the issuers? Also, does that impact your ability to raise pricing in the future?

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't think that anything that we have done is inconsistent with our commitment to our current clients. In fact, most of what we have done in the restructuring that we have done is to ensure that we can continue to serve them and we can continue to help them run profitable businesses.

I think that what we have done also reflects our focus on making sure that everyone in the value chain has higher expectations of what they can expect in the future, and that that helps regenerate the whole. At least from a debit card point of view, it helps sustain and regenerate the whole process of electronic payments continuing to move forward.

There was a second part to the question. Oh, does it constrain our ability to price. I don't think that we have done anything that constrains our ability to take actions in the future that we deem to be appropriate. I think the key word here is deemed to be appropriate. Right now we don't have any intention of raising any prices in the United States. I think that we are in the position that we are comfortable with, and that is the way we're going to look at it going forward for the time being.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA: I was hoping you could help us understand a little more the magnitude of change between the former pricing structure on debit and what is coming, perhaps, in the context of the 20% of revenue -- 20% plus of revenue that you have discussed that is being generated from US debit.

Now a totally separate topic. This morning Cielo down in Brazil held their conference call. They discussed that in a very brief time Cielo has already issued over 0.25 million cards and that growth rate is accelerating. I'm curious if you take into account that the banks pushing Cielo are mainly Visa issuers, are you seeing any impact to your growth rate of cards in force down in Brazil? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me respond to both questions. With regards to a deeper description of the impact on the 20%, I think the way we have chosen to respond to that for now is related to what we described on our last call, that in preparing for a new post-urban environment there are a number of ways this can play out competitively. We have run a variety of scenarios. We have used those to inform the revenue range we gave to you all at the July 6 call. I think you all recognize that there is a lot of market reaction here yet to unfold.

Strategies need to play out before we can be more descriptive about these impacts, and as they do, we will update appropriately. Having said that, we do believe that the primary impact of the Durbin legislation will be felt in 2012, and we would expect to regain some revenue growth momentum in this arena in 2013.

With regards to Cielo, it was contemplated all along that Cielo would be entering in this market. It is a lower income profile, lower spend oriented market segment. And that is a segment very different from the one that we currently occupy.

So from that vantage point where we feel that the enormous growth we are experiencing in Brazil will continue, and the developments we are seeing today are not unexpected.

OPERATOR: Glenn Fodor, Morgan Stanley.

GLENN FODOR, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Regarding your comments on the July 6 call, and this call as well, that revenue growth in fiscal 2013 can regain momentum, this is a very important nuance for investors and the street. I was wondering if you could provide us with a little roadmap of how you see that occurring? I appreciate the color you gave today on Russia, Brazil and India, but those are going to take some time.

So where is the fiscal 2013 reacceleration going to come from? And then given that margins are pretty healthy already, could we still expect the same spread between revenue and earnings growth, and why?

BYRON POLLITT: Maybe the best way to respond to that -- again, I am going to elevate a little bit and describe some of the high-level baseline assumptions that we -- that inform the 2012 guidance, recognizing that on the fourth-quarter earnings call that is typically when we will provide more metrics to describe 2012 and we will see about 2013.

So in 2012 we are projecting global payment volume growth off of current trends, adjusted for the investments we are making related to our country acceleration strategies. In US debit, in particular, we do expect, as Joe mentioned, a decrease in yield. We expect to lose some routing weighted more to PIN. We expect some volume shift from signature to PIN. We expect much of that to play out in 2012, therefore, becoming part of our base in 2012.

And so for me revenue standpoint by the time we run into 2013, we are benefiting from strong growth outside the United States that is accelerated based on investments we're making in a number of key markets to amplify the growth in those markets. And with post-Durbin impact substantially embedded in the 2012 base. With our strategies in place and gaining more traction with each passing quarter, that is the underpinning of why we would expect to see revenue begin regaining momentum in 2013.

OPERATOR: Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: So first a quick clarification and then, I guess, a meatier question. US debit payments volume growth decelerated by a couple of points from March to June. I guess I'm wondering if Durbin potentially had a disruptive impact at all in your opinion on the debit volume growth?

Then the meatier question is really about how do you expect your debit competitors might react to the altered debit pricing structure that you are rolling out? It seems desirable to avoid price-based competition, but it seems price-based competition is now somewhat of a certainty, given that the other competitors are likely to respond to your altered structure.

So do you expect the other networks to be more aggressive on pricing? And to the extent that they are, are you prepared to do something with your financials to try to buffer the impact, such as cutting advertising expenses or something along those lines?

Can you just give us an idea, because I know you run multiple scenarios on how competitors might react, but if those (technical difficulty) scenarios play out where pricing competition gets more aggressive on the more aggressive side, you have kind of a plan B to buffer the impact.

BYRON POLLITT: So I will take the first one. So with regards to the deceleration in debit, what you also see in the -- that is also the explanation for why processed -- Visa processed transactions dipped a bit in the quarter.

What you are seeing is the tail -- the runoff, so to speak, of the Chase/WaMu conversion and the initial ramp up of the SunTrust change. And the combination of those two completely explain the drop in growth rates down to -- the drop in growth rate on Visa processed transactions. So that is the answer to the first question. Joe?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, the answer to the second question is, yes, we thought very clearly and gone very deeply into what our notions about what our competition would do. We think we have put ourselves in a position where we are more than capable of responding. We have no intention, nor do we think we have to start a race to the bottom. We do have contingency plans. We are very confident in the guidance that we gave you for 2012. You can remember we withheld giving specific guidance on 2012 for quite some time.

We didn't actually say anything until after the Fed regulations came out, so that we could match what the rules said to what our plans were. We have done that. We are confident we are going to get where we said -- where we say we are going to go.

I just would add to what Byron said earlier, he explained to you why 2013 might go up. I will also tell you that I think that 2012 is an extraordinarily achievable objective.

OPERATOR: Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I had a couple of quick clarifications too, and then a major question I had as well. Just on the fixed fee versus lower variable fee strategy, I just want to make sure, is this just for debit or is it also for other Visa products?

And also, just the impact on the P&L, does this -- I am just trying to reconcile this strategy versus -- Byron, the guidance you talked about in the fourth-quarter and the incentives picking up to win routing decisions, is that one or are they two different strategies?

Then my primary question was just around the international volume. That did accelerate, it looks like -- yes, it did accelerate in every region. So how much of that acceleration is from new programs being launched versus just a pickup in underlying same-store growth or same-store secular growth, obviously, a lot of focus on the macro today. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: So on the last one, it is same-store growth without question. That is the accelerator. Fixed fee, all products, and the two different strategies. So when we talked about entering into some additional merchant partnerships, trading incentives for routing preference, that is a different strategy. It is all contemplated in the guidance that we have given you for 2012. But it is two different strategies with the network participation fee and the introduction of lower variable transaction cost being a separate pricing strategy, all contained within the guidance we gave for 2012.

OPERATOR: Jim Kissane, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

JIM KISSANE, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA MERRILL LYNCH: Just another question on the network participation. Do you have a sense on what portion of Visa will directly negotiate with merchants, and what portion will be negotiated by the acquirers?

Will merchants be able to opt out if they don't want to go along with the program and stick with the older variable structure?

JOE SAUNDERS: I will leave the financials to Byron, but as it relates to an opt out they can opt out if they don't want to accept Visa cards.

BYRON POLLITT: And yes, we do. It is -- we have a sense as to the proportions. That is part of the scenarios that we have run. For competitive reasons, of course, you wouldn't expect us to be very specific on the call, so I will honor that expectation and not be.

JOE SAUNDERS: Let me go back and just remind everyone that this fixed fee that you're talking about is not a fee that sits on top of what merchants are paying. It is part of what we consider to be a reduction in the fees that merchants will pay. I think that is extraordinarily important, because to mischaracterize it would be a mistake and a disservice.

BYRON POLLITT: I would add, Jim, that the -- when Joe said earlier the strategy is in part intended to honor the spirit of the new regs, this will allow merchants to begin realizing more economies of scale on the incremental transactions as they grow their volumes.

We thought that was an important design element of the pricing structure going forward. So the notion of introducing a fixed component, having a lower variable and then allowing the variable to be the one in play as merchants grow their volume honors one of the objectives of this regulation.

OPERATOR: Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just a clarification. Just a second ago you said that this would apply to all products. Did you mean credit and debit products or do you just mean all debit products?

BYRON POLLITT: No, all products. So the fee -- to pay the fee is -- makes you eligible to use -- to accept credit, debit, prepaid, all Visa products.

JULIO QUINTEROS: Got it. Okay, great. And then just out of curiosity in the rollout of India you talked about 1 million debit cards being issued. I'm just curious on form factor there in terms of choice, why not having gone to something more like mobile or some alternative technology, I guess, relative to plastic at this point?

JOE SAUNDERS: There is some history there in the Indian market. We are absolutely going to mobile in India. But there initially we are solving for cards that are PIN-enabled and that have -- and that have standardized protocols that will allow broad-based acceptance. And it addresses some historical issues in the Indian market.

But this is in no way a substitute for mobile, which we view as a very important form factor to penetrate the vast majority of locations in India, since it is very unlikely that they would ever be able to support the fiber-optic infrastructure that more developed countries have developed over time.

OPERATOR: Robert Dodd, Morgan Keegan.

ROBERT DODD, ANALYST, MORGAN KEEGAN: Just, again, sticking on the [NCSC], how confident are you in your reporting ability to track the number of locations? If we look at the [PCIDS] data that you have given us in the past, the number of Tier 1 merchants that you disclose has always been something of an estimate. So is there going to be -- a necessitate change in reporting from acquirers or anything like that for you to be extract the number of locations to appropriately levy the fee?

BYRON POLLITT: The short answer is yes, but we have researched this significantly, understand what the changes would be, have solutions to make that happen, and are comfortable that this can be done in a relatively straightforward way within the timeframe contemplated.

OPERATOR: Tim Willi, Wells Fargo.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Just a question on sort of thinking about routing preference and minimizing some of the bleed in marketshare. To what degree do you think that the marketshare you currently possess, and maybe the touch points of data and scale between the signature business and Interlink affords you a competitive advantage around cost or the data and value that you talk about in terms of building additional products versus what might be at the disposal of the competition if they decide to employ the same type of strategy?

BYRON POLLITT: So I don't think there's any question with our installed base we have a highly, highly competitive cost position. With the data that we process, we are very well-positioned in order to add value-added services.

And with regards to routing preference, given our market position, we have assumed, as I said earlier, in our guidance that some of the volume is at risk. It is contained in our guidance, more PIN than signature. And that there is -- and our guidance assumes that there would be some conversion of signature to PIN.

So our guidance is based on those assumptions. Having said that, we feel very well-positioned to compete for transactions. The one change in the environment that we are sensitive to is that two unaffiliated networks need to be on those cards. And a meaningful number of our cards today are Visa branded on the front, Interlink on the back. So we are mindful of that situation. Mindful that we will -- that puts us in a different competitive situation position in the post-Durbin world. And that is the set of circumstances our strategies are aimed to address.

JOE SAUNDERS: In general, we think that our clients, that our infrastructure, that our recent announcements on eCommerce and the wallet capabilities that we are developing, among a number of other things, put us in a very, very, very strong position.

Which is not to say that there won't be competition, and it is not to say that we are not mindful of what other people can do. I think that we have the largest marketshare because we have executed better than anyone else. I think that we have shown an ability to operate in [front] of the market. I don't see any reason why that should change. We will be diligent in that regard. And we will be mindful of the competition. And we have thought long and hard about all of that in delivering our guidance.

JACK CARSKY: At this point we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: David Hochstim, Buckingham Research.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: I was wondering, are you planning to offer the new pricing structure, the network participation fee in any new markets outside the US at this point?

JOE SAUNDERS: Not at this point.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: Then could you just clarify two things. One, what the impact of gasoline prices was on spending in the last quarter and through July? And then just on United agreement what happened to the existing Continental cards when they expire or after the merger? What happens to somebody who has a continental card with another brand on it?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, you have asked a number of -- do you want to answer the gasoline one, Byron.

BYRON POLLITT: Well, the gasoline -- well, actually, we can get back to you on the actual impacts. We do have a phenomena that when looking at the payment value for the payment volume trends that once pricing gets much above, I think, $3, approaching $4 a gallon, you begin seeing a switch from debit to credit.

So we are starting to see some of that, and some of that switch may come back the other way if prices drop. But largely what we are seeing is a somewhat higher percentage on credit and debit to gasoline, with no immediate trade out on other expenditures that is particularly noticeable. So that is it on gasoline.

JOE SAUNDERS: It does not in aggregate add any significant amount to our growth.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, and we have made no explicit assumptions with regards to the impact of gasoline plus or minus in next year's -- with regards to next year's guidance.

On United/Continental, all new cards under the new plan will be issued Visa. And then the existing cards -- well, the way to articulate this is the deal is focused on the new issuance, and we get 100% of the new issuance given the effective date of the contract going forward.

JOE SAUNDERS: Cards outstanding will be reissued as they are, plus the consumer, of course.

JACK CARSKY: All right, thank you all for joining us today. If anybody has any follow-up questions, feel free to give Victoria or myself a call. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference call. This call has concluded, you may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | braz : Brazil | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110810e77r00akl
  


 HD
 Q2  2011  Visa  Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,511 words
   PD
5 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal Q2 2011 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Good afternoon and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal 2011 second-quarter earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the Internet and can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and, as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. These include setbacks in the global economy and the impact of new financial reform regulations.

Additional information concerning these factors is available in our last 10-K on file with the SEC. It can be accessed through the SEC website and the Investor Relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed on this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal second-quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our website.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Jack. And as always, thanks to all of you for joining us today.

Visa delivered another quarter of solid financial performance, posting net operating revenue of over $2.2 billion, a 15% increase over the same period last year.

As has been the case for over a year now, these revenue gains were driven by double-digit growth in payment volume, cross-border volume, and Visa-processed transactions from across the globe.

Notably, 62% of our total revenue growth came from outside the United States, getting us progressively closer to our stated objective of having our business outside the United States represent more than half of our revenue by fiscal 2015.

Net income for the quarter was $881 million, a 23% increase over the prior year. This equates to diluted earnings per share of $1.23, a 28% increase over the second quarter of 2010.

In the second quarter, we effectively repurchased an additional $630 million worth of shares, nearly exhausting our $1 billion authorization first announced at the beginning of this fiscal year. Given that, and recognizing our ongoing commitment to return excess cash to shareholders, today we are pleased to announce that our Board recently authorized a new $1 billion share repurchase program. This brings our total amounts of effective repurchases in fiscal 2011 to $2.8 billion. Byron will provide some additional detail on the specifics of the activity.

Before covering some of the business highlights from the quarter, I'd like to first address the ongoing legislative dialog in Washington and the industry's efforts to address the Durbin bill.

Reiterating what I said on last quarter's call, since the introduction of the Durbin amendment, Visa has worked with the industry to help educate legislators on the unintended consequences of this piece of legislation. And our efforts are gaining increasing traction.

As you know, Senators Tester and Corker have introduced legislation calling for a delay and a study of the Durbin bill. The Senators' efforts have generated support from a large, growing and diverse group of individuals and organizations who are concerned about the unintended anticonsumer consequences of debit regulation.

We believe strongly that Congress should examine what the real impact of this regulation will be on consumers, the financial institutions that serve them, the payment system and the economy as a whole. This would be the reasonable and rational course of action. To that end, we are hopeful that the Senate will consider Senators Tester and Corker's bill in the very near future.

That said, no matter what happens with Durbin, we will continue to compete in and lead the US electronic payments market and be a growth company for years to come.

I will now turn to business developments from the past quarter that underscore our focus on driving global revenue growth today, while also setting the stage for future growth through new and innovative ways to pay.

As ever, our strong relationships with clients continue to help drive our success. In addition to delivering solid financial gains in the second fiscal quarter, we were successful in advancing our strategy of growing and protecting our core business through key wins and relationship renewals with financial institutions and merchants.

First, we grew our core issuance business with several important new deals. For example, in India, we've made significant strides in expanding our business with the State Bank of India. We signed a multiyear deal to issue Visa debit products across the SBI franchise, whereas until now the bank's business was entirely with our competitor.

Nearly 0.5 million Visa cards have been issued since March, and we expect several million to be issued within the first year of the program, with significant runway beyond that. This new win is in addition to the joint venture with already have in the works with SBI and Elavon to terminalize major metropolitan areas of the country.

We also recently signed a multiyear credit and debit agreement with HSBC covering most of our Latin American and Caribbean region that will considerably broaden our issuance with HSBC in this part of the world. This builds upon the long-term issuing relationship we have had with HSBC globally for many years.

And in the US, we expanded our credit program portfolio with a new seven-year program with U.S. Bank and Kroger, one of the largest grocery retailers in the US, which will begin converting to Visa in September. We also strengthened several relationships with longtime key issuing clients in the US. Most recently, we re-signed Regions Bank to a multiyear debit agreement to include signature debit, Interlink and some processing services. Regions is a top 10 debit issuer in the US and a longtime client of Visa.

We also continue to see good traction on the prepaid front in the US with our state government programs. We recently initiated unemployment insurance programs in Connecticut with Chase and in Florida with Wells Fargo.

On that subject, our unemployment programs with the Bank of America in New Jersey and California are ramping up at a very nice pace. Importantly, though, we are seeing increasing use of these cards at the point of sale versus cash withdrawals at the ATM, as consumers get more comfortable with this form of prepaid product.

Beyond working with our financial institution and merchant clients to expand issuance and acceptance of our core products, we also continue to look ahead and develop new channels and form factors to diversify the utility of these products.

For instance, in the mobile space, we've just announced our real-time messaging service with our first client, The Gap. This service allows merchants to send real-time location-based discounts and promotions to consumers via text message. In this case, consumers can opt into the Gap Mobile 4 U program to receive Gap discounts that are triggered when they conduct a qualified Visa transaction, which they can choose to redeem at a Gap store while they are out shopping.

Gap was the first national retailer to test and roll out real-time messaging, and we have a strong pipeline of other retailers to follow. This is an excellent example of a value-added service that supports merchants' desires to personalize the consumer shopping experience made possible by the real-time processing capabilities and unparalleled data from our VisaNet processing infrastructure.

Equally important, if the legislation is not delayed, RTM, along with other offerings such as CyberSource's enhanced Decision Manager -- which I will talk about in a moment -- are the types of Visa value-added services that would incent merchandises to route transactions over VisaNet.

In the area of person-to-person payments, we continue to make important strides in leveraging our network and significant card base to enable people to pay each other using Visa cards. Our recent announcement with CashEdge and Fiserv in the US underscores one of the important ways we are accelerating growth in this area. Increasingly, by working with partners like these who have existing distribution channels, we can broaden the reach and ease of use of P2P payment programs on Visa products.

A recent example of one of these P2P programs overseas involves a service we recently launched in Russia and the Ukraine. We are working with QIWI, Russia's largest payment kiosk operator; 1st Processing Bank in Russia; and PrivatBank, the Ukraine's largest bank. Together, we are enabling domestic transfers within Russia and with a cross-border functionality between Visa account holders in the Ukraine and Russia. Over time, we will partner with additional entities to expand these programs globally.

On the e-commerce front, we closed the PlaySpan acquisition on March 1. In the meantime, we have seen CyberSource's business continue to grow rapidly and gain increasing traction in the marketplace. During the quarter, CyberSource delivered 38% billable transaction growth and secured a number of new business wins with major merchants, including [ADS America] and Olympus America.

I also want to point out one or more of the recent examples of the synergies we are finding with CyberSource that deliver tangible value to our global merchant base.

This quarter, we combined the strength of Visa and CyberSource's individual fraud protection capabilities to launch our first iteration of Enhanced Decision Manager, which I mentioned earlier. By combining the risk scores that CyberSource has historically provided to its merchant clients with data from the Visa Inc. Advanced Authorization Service, we are delivering a unique and unparalleled view of transaction data that merchant clients recognize will serve them as a powerful new fraud detection mechanism for their business.

All of these advancements are important steps towards capturing the enormous opportunity we see ahead, with payments innovation fueling our business growth over the moderate to long term.

All of us know the way people connect and transact across the globe is changing dramatically, driven by two global forces -- first, the continued secular shift from paper-based to electronic payments that still largely occurs at the physical point of sale; and second, the widespread adoption of mobile and Internet technology.

These forces are converging, and consumers and merchants are looking for payment solutions that harness these technologies. To that end, we have been working hard to develop a Visa quality payment solution that brings reliability, security and convenience to mobile and e-commerce environments.

In our view, a globally viable payment solution must have five fundamental characteristics -- convenience and simplicity, standardization, interoperability, global accessibility, and security. None of the solutions we have seen from competitors is comprehensive enough because they don't address all of these criteria at once.

Visa has long delivered solutions at the physical point of sale that pass this test, and we are applying the same standard in the online and mobile arenas. Look for us to make an announcement of our global e-commerce and mobile strategy later this month.

And now, over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. I will begin with some overall observations.

First, Visa's 15% net revenue growth was broad based, with solid 10% growth in the US and a very strong 21% growth rate in rest of world. As Joe mentioned earlier, over 60% of the quarter's revenue growth came from outside the United States. This means non-US revenue is now 45% of Visa's total.

Second, US revenue growth has been supported by five consecutive quarters of year-over-year positive credit payment volume growth. Most recently, the months of February and March both comped at 11%, which is the first time we have seen double-digit growth since the recession. We are clearly encouraged by this trend.

Third callout relates to client incentives. Incentives for the quarter as a percent of gross revenue were 16.7%, up from 15.3% in the first quarter. Taken together, incentives as a percent of gross revenue were 16% for the first half of the fiscal year, at the low end of our guidance.

While we still expect client incentives to be in the range of 16% to 16.5% for fiscal 2011, if implementation of the Durbin amendment is not delayed beyond July, it is probable that we would see some upward pressure on this number as a result of potential actions we would take to mitigate volume loss with certain issuers and merchants.

Fourth callout relates to Durbin. Whether the legislation gets delayed or not, we still expect to deliver revenue growth in the 11% to 15% range and earnings per share growth of greater than 20%.

Finally, it's worth noting that beginning with the second fiscal quarter, our three key revenue drivers are now growing at double-digit rates while comping double-digit growth in the same quarter of the prior year. This is true both globally and for the US, indicating that the strength of the recovery is now more broad based.

Now let's turn to the numbers. First, I will cover our global payment volume and transaction trends for the December and March quarters, as well as more recent payment and transaction results for the entire month of April. I will then cover the financial highlights of our fiscal second quarter, followed by our guidance outlook for fiscal year 2011.

Global payment volume growth for the March quarter, in constant dollars, was 13%, a modest decline from the 15% growth we saw in the December quarter.

We saw the following breakdowns in the March quarter figures. In the US, payment volume growth was 12%, relatively flat from the December quarter. Rest-of-world payment volume on a constant-dollar basis grew at 15%, down 2 points from the 17% rate in the December quarter.

More recently, in the month of April, US payment volume growth came in at 11%. Although not yet available, based on the trends we saw during the second quarter, we expect rest-of-world payment volume growth to be higher than the US's 11%.

Global cross-border volume delivered a solid 13% growth rate on a constant-dollar basis in the March quarter, down slightly from a 15% rate in the December quarter. There was notable dropoff in inbound travel to Japan, Middle East and North Africa. In aggregate, these situations may have negatively impacted growth by about 50 basis points. In April, cross-border volumes on a constant-dollar basis grew 13%.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled 12 billion in the fiscal second quarter, a 13% increase over the year-ago period and modestly behind the 15% growth rate we saw in the December quarter.

In April, processed transactions posted growth of 12%. CyberSource billable transactions totaled just over 1 billion for the quarter, a very strong 38% growth rate over the same period a year ago.

We continue to expect strong results in this part of our business as e-commerce growth remains strong in the US and internationally.

Now, turning to the income statement, in our fiscal second quarter, gross revenue of $2.7 billion was up 16% from the similar period in 2010. Net operating revenue in the quarter was $2.2 billion, a 15% increase year over year, driven by a sustained economic recovery, previously enacted pricing changes, and cross-border transaction growth.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $1.1 billion, up 24% over the prior-year period. This is reflective of strong payment volume growth in the December quarter and the impact of pricing adjustments.

Data processing revenue was $823 million, up 13% over the prior year's quarter, based on strong transaction growth rates for both Visa Process and CyberSource transactions. As expected and discussed previously, data processing revenue growth has moderated due to the impact of key contract renewals two quarters ago and by the prospective removal of certain offsetting gateway pass-through revenue and expense.

International transaction revenue was up 14% to $624 million due to the sustained improvement in cross-border volumes during the period. As I mentioned, client incentives as a percent of gross revenue came in at 16.7% and are running at 16% fiscal year to date, on track with expectation.

Approximately 65% of the year-over-year dollar increase in incentives is due to payment volume growth in client portfolios. About another 25% of the increase is due to non-US client renewals.

Total operating expense for the quarter was $862 million, up 3% from the prior year. Increases in personnel, professional fees, and general and administrative expense were offset by lower marketing in the period.

Additionally -- and I will continue to remind you of this for the next two quarters -- recall that we announced an earnings-neutral change in income statement presentation related to revenue and operating expense associated with certain pass-through activity. As a result, $55 million of revenue and expense which was booked in Q2 fiscal year 2010 did not reoccur in Q2 fiscal year 2011. In Q2, this represented 3 percentage points of revenue growth. For the remainder of the year, these changes in presentation will continue to be earnings-neutral and will affect revenue growth.

The foreign exchange impact on net revenue in the second fiscal quarter was moderated by our hedging activities and contributed a positive 2% increase compared to the same prior-year period. While our operating margin for the quarter was 62%, please note that we expect to aggressively fund important long-term investments across our entire business.

Capital expenditures were $72 million in the quarter, representing ongoing investment in technology, infrastructure and growth initiatives.

Lastly, the PlaySpan acquisition had a dilutive impact to earnings per share of $0.01 for the second quarter of fiscal 2011, and we anticipate a dilutive impact to earnings per share of $0.04 for the full 2011 fiscal year.

Moving on to the balance sheet, we ended the second quarter in great shape, with negligible debt, and cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and available-for-sale investments of $6.6 billion. Of this total, $3 billion is restricted cash, which represents amounts sufficient to fully pay off the balance of the American Express settlement over the remaining three quarters, with $2.7 billion uncommitted as of the end of the second quarter.

In terms of our ongoing buyback, at the end of the quarter we announced the prefunding of the litigation escrow by $400 million to be funded with cash previously designated for our $1 billion share repurchase. This was executed at an average price of $73.81 per share. Additionally, we repurchased $230 million of our shares in the open market during the quarter at an average price of $70.53 per share.

All told, we effectively repurchased 8.7 million shares at an average price of $72.58. This leaves us with $64 million of open to buy under the original program.

At the end of the quarter, we had 704 million shares outstanding on an as-converted basis, and importantly, the A Class now accounts for almost 75% of our outstanding shares.

Management remains committed to returning excess cash to shareholders. And to this end, as Joe mentioned at the outset, our Board of Directors authorized a new $1 billion repurchase plan, which we will execute at prices we feel are attractive relative to the long-term value of Visa.

As to guidance for the balance of 2011, given results to date, we are not making any adjustments at this time. With or without a Durbin delay, we expect to deliver revenue growth in the 11% to 15% range and EPS growth of better than 20%.

Once the timing and content of the Reform Act regulations are clarified, we will determine whether any 2011 guidance requires adjustment, such as client incentives, and we will consider providing an early earnings outlook for fiscal 2012.

In summary, we expect Visa to remain a solid growth company for years to come. Our core businesses continue to grow at healthy rates while we are aggressively investing in technologies and platforms that will extend our core payment and processing capabilities, thereby creating new sources of growth.

Finally, we expect to deliver this growth while driving significant free cash flow, which we will use to enhance shareholder returns through continued dividend increases and share repurchases.

And with that, we are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Bruce Harting, Barclays Capital.

BRUCE HARTING, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: With 60% of growth coming from rest of world, Byron, I'm just trying to circle the next time you have an earnings announcement, hopefully we will know one way or another the outcome of the Fed decision and whether it is stalled or not. But is it one way to look at it, of $2.2 billion of net revenue this quarter, I figure about 10% -- given your previous numbers -- came from issuers at US debit, so call that maybe $200 million. And in theory, if that were reduced, say, 20%, just to pick a number, maybe worst case, or $40 million a quarter, the other $2 billion of revenue is growing faster, as you said, with 60% of revenue growth coming from rest of world -- particularly strong in credit, given that credit is much larger rest of world than debit.

Isn't one way to look at it and say that that other $2 billion of revenue not impacted by Durbin growing, say, 15% would more than offset, say, the $40 million decline in the $200 million of US debit coming from issuers? Is that one way to try to size this in the second half if we get a worst case?

BYRON POLLITT: Without confirming any of the numbers, I think the mindset that we are conveying and you are picking up is that with that 45% of our net revenue in the quarter is now coming from outside the US, that revenue this quarter grew at 21%, twice what the growth rate is of the US at 10%. And we were particularly pleased to see that this is the fifth straight quarter of positive payment volume growth in US credit.

And so, within the US portfolio, which is being outgrown by rest of world, credit is beginning to take a stronger presence and thereby putting debit in a different financial perspective than it was, say, 12 months ago.

So I think that thesis is exactly what we were trying to convey on the call. Thank you for asking.

OPERATOR: Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Glad to see the buyback. Joe, I just want to ask you, I guess you are teasing us a little bit here with the e-commerce mobile strategy announcement later this month. Is there any way you can elaborate on that further? And I guess I would also ask you if you can update us on your willingness to work with, I will call it nonbank partners in the US, names like ISIS, which I believe is now opening things up outside of Discover?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I can't really expand on the first point because, as I suggested, we are going to make an announcement, and we'll begin with something in the middle to end of next week. So you're going to have to hold off for a few days or several days in that regards.

As it relates to the second part of the question, obviously one of the things that we are looking at is opening up new and different sources of revenue. And that would suggest that we will be working with different types of entities than we have pretty much exclusively worked with before.

Having said that, I want to make perfectly clear we are not going to do this at the expense of our primary customers, financial institutions.

OPERATOR: Adam Frisch, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM FRISCH, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I want to address the A&M line in the quarter, because all the calls I'm getting post the release is on this. And I know, Byron, you went through the details. It was based on the accounting changes around Extras and no Olympics this year and so forth.

But just to set an apples-to-apples basis, what would the year-over-year EPS compare have been? And as a follow-on, you said that you will continually invest in growth initiatives. With the margins at 62%, does that mean they are not sustainable at current levels? Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: So, on the first one, I think what you are asking, Adam, on marketing is because we took the Visa Extras out of the expense base going forward, does that have a P&L impact? Is that the question?

Because the revenue came out equal to the expenses. So while marketing is down -- and it is down in part because of the removal of Extras, and also because of timing -- the full-year impact of the change that we made with Visa Extras is income statement neutral. So, no impact on EPS and no impact on the full-year guidance for marketing, because when we guided the -- while marketing is down versus the same quarter last year, there's always -- given the campaign that we had last year relative to the Olympics, you would naturally expect it to be down somewhat.

So we are still fully consistent with the guidance that we gave earlier on marketing and the announcements we made for Extras, no income statement impact.

With regards to the margin at 62% for the quarter, that would be -- what you should take away is that we are increasingly investing in our products, platforms to drive future growth, and the margin will simply be an outcome of the level of investment that we make. And we continue to invest aggressively in that arena.

OPERATOR: Dan Perlin, RBC Capital Markets.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I had a question as pertains to watching inflation, gas prices and food. And I wanted to know, what really has been your experience where certain I guess friction points or price levels really start to impact the transaction growth relative to (technical difficulty) that you guys get from higher average ticket prices? And then, are you really concerned at current levels, or would you be concerned if these levels were kind of held up for a prolonged period of time?

BYRON POLLITT: This is Byron. Let me give you a few -- a little bit of factual perspective first. With regards -- and let's talk about this in the context of the US. So, for gas, historically, if you go back a year, gas prices -- at gas prices that were roughly 30% less than the average, on average, than they are today, we were running about 8% of total US payment volume in the gas category -- we refer to it as oil -- in the oil category.

In the month of April, that was just a little over 10% of US payment volume, suggesting that the share had moved up about -- that's about a 25% increase in the share of US payment volume when you compare that to roughly -- based on our measures -- a 32% increase in the average price of gasoline, April versus about where we were a year ago.

And you factor in that there has probably been some degree of consumption cutback, given prices that are now posted in the $4-plus range, that is the immediate impact. We have not yet seen -- and it may be a bit early -- we have not yet seen any specific callouts relative to tradeouts on other spending categories, which may be in part due to the additional disposable income created by reductions in withholding tax and Social Security.

So we are still trying to sort that out. Inevitably, there's probably going to be some friction, but at the moment it's hard for us to identify it.

OPERATOR: Andrew Jeffrey, SunTrust.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the question. Byron, if we operate under the assumption that indeed Durbin is not delayed and, as you said, you would adjust incentives to maintain volume, could we think about that -- first of all, I'm assuming what you're saying is you would be above the high end of the 16.5% range you've set. And second, would that effectively be a one-time event concentrated in the second half of '11, and then you would go back to more normalized levels in the future? Or is that a structurally higher level of volume to support incentives, in your view?

BYRON POLLITT: Let me deal with the first part of your question. We delivered the first six months at 16% incentives as a percent of growth, and our guidance was 16% to 16.5%. That 16% to 16.5% guidance did assume that Durbin would not be delayed, that we would have some impact of Durbin before the end of the year. And we provided for some degree of incentives in the event that that were to happen.

Without knowing the exact timing, without knowing exactly how the rules will be promulgated, without knowing the timing -- the implementation timing associated with those rules, those are some pretty big wildcards with regards to the incentives that we may or may not be putting on the table this fiscal year.

And therefore, we were drawing attention to the fact that we've got a year in the bag at 16%, but there is some significant uncertainty still to go. But some of those uncertainties were contemplated, so don't automatically assume that were it not to be delayed that we would necessarily be above that range. But where we end up is going to be a function of the timing and the exact wording of the rules.

And I would say on the second, it's just hard to know with regards to how we would be deploying incentives today versus how we would do it under Durbin. The notion that incentives would be in play I think is a fair assumption. To what degree, whether it would be one-time, sustained, I think it will be -- once we understand better the environment ahead, we will be much better able to opine on that.

OPERATOR: Dave Koning, Baird.

DAVE KONING, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD: I was just wondering if the acceleration in credit growth, if that's all being driven by just consumer preferences as maybe their incomes rise, etc., or if there is some external push from the banks that are just starting to push credit over debit or just deemphasizing debit.

BYRON POLLITT: Credit has -- go ahead.

JOE SAUNDERS: Go ahead.

BYRON POLLITT: Credit is typically much more discretionary in its use. And therefore, we have continued to see very strong debit growth, which is more nondiscretionary. As the economy recovers, our belief is that consumers, in combination with more employment, become more willing to spend on the discretionary side.

From what we can see, this is still concentrated in the high-income segment of the market, but driven by more discretionary spend and not coming at the expense of debit at this point.

OPERATOR: David Hochstim, Buckingham Research.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: I wondered, could you just give us maybe a better sense of how much the conversions affected some of the revenue and payments growth metrics this quarter, if we look at the year-over-year comparisons this quarter versus the December quarter?

BYRON POLLITT: We don't actually guide or disclose what the actual impacts are. But it is -- conversions are accretive for us through this fiscal year. And we can address that again with fiscal year '12 coming up when we talk about our guidance for that time period at the end of the year. We will address conversions or deconversions at that point. But it should be accretive in each quarter for the balance of this fiscal year.

OPERATOR: Don Fandetti, Citi.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Joe, as you look at markets such as Asia, there's clearly a very strong growth trajectory. I was curious, on the headwind side, I mean, how do you feel about the competitive landscape from a regional network perspective? We've talked to some folks over there, and it seems like they are continuing to be pretty active.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, there's a lot of competitive activity that is different in Asia than in the United States. I mean, there's China UnionPay; there's JCP; there's national payment system considerations. And so there's a lot going on.

But we've been doing business around the world for a lengthy period of time. We've had people on the ground for decades in most of these countries. And the fact that these economies are emerging and that electronic payment mechanisms are becoming more and more prevalent, we continue to have a huge opportunity almost everywhere in the world.

I'm not being dismissive about the competition that we face. I mean, obviously there are areas of the world like China where we can't do business domestically. But I don't think that -- I think that our numbers would suggest to you that we are doing quite well and increasing our volume in Asia and other parts -- and Latin America and other regions outside the United States. And so, I am pretty bullish on where we will be in the next few years in that regard.

OPERATOR: Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Byron, maybe just to sort of home in a little bit on the confidence to grow through Durbin, as we think about that longer term, is it the volume growth outside of the US, some of the mitigation strategies that you're talking about -- what gives you guys the confidence? Or is it a combination of all the above -- you guys have some visibility on obviously where the growth of the business is. So maybe any way to sort of home in on how you're thinking about the mitigation efforts themselves in terms of a post-Durbin world, etc.?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, it would be -- this is Joe -- it would be kind of silly for me to sit here and tell you exactly what we're going to do, because it clearly has something to do with competition, in the event that the rules change. But we certainly haven't been passive as it relates to understanding what the various implications and scenarios could be coming out of Durbin, whether it is delayed or isn't delayed, what the final [links] from the Fed would be.

And so, in each of those cases, we have a different set of mitigation tactics that we would intend to use. I mean, obviously, we have some things that we would intend to do across the board regardless of how things -- about how things develop. But our suggesting to you that we are comfortable that we are going to continue to be viable and that we will be a growth company are predicated on the confidence that we have as it relates to what we do. If that's sufficiently vague, I'm sorry.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Maybe just to follow up on that, Joe, some of the things that would mitigate the effects on you wouldn't necessarily even be things that you would do; you might help in them. But I was wondering about the idea of, how much do you think of debit volume could be shifted either in more upscale customers up to credit or downscale customers to reloadable prepaid that would have kind of better economics for the issuer and for yourself as well? And would Visa be advantaged in that just because you tend to be partnered with the banks that have more robust credit card platforms, like JPMorgan and BofA?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, yes. I mean, your logic is good. And also, in the prepaid space, we're (technical difficulty) significant investment. I can't tell you -- it's hard to judge what percentage of debit volume could move up or down in the way that you're suggesting. But I certainly wouldn't be saying anything out of school or giving away any secrets if I suggested that there isn't a bank in the United States that isn't (technical difficulty).

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA: Yesterday on First Data's earnings call, they had mentioned making significant investment in dynamic routing. Whether that is premature or not depends on a Durbin delay or not. But I wanted to get your thoughts on the prospect of dynamic routing at the acquirer level and whether that would create a price war at the merchant level for debit. Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, look, this gets back into what are the mitigation tactics that we are going to use. And I understand what FDR thinks, and I understand that they are probably excited about the potential from their point of view. But, frankly, I'm as excited about what we can do as they are about what they can do. And I'm really quite prepared to do what I need to do to compete with FDR. And I'm -- at the risk of sounding -- well, I'm not being flippant, I'm just -- I have a considerably high degree of confidence that we will be just fine.

OPERATOR: Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: It makes sense that you have your incentive outlook and your 2012 outlook essentially on hold until we get clarity on the Fed debit rules. But I'm wondering if you could give us a way to dimension the percentage of your US revenues that are attached to clients where your incentive agreement would need to be altered if the Fed chooses either Alternative A or Alternative B under the no network exclusivity provision.

In other words, how much of your US revenue mix is subject to incentive agreement modifications under the Durbin amendment in the long run, recognizing that Durbin's timing is very unknown?

BYRON POLLITT: Rod, let me try and be helpful in putting some perspective with two observations, the first one of which -- since we are not going to specifically talk about revenue in the context that you asked -- we are already public that roughly a little over 50% of cards are issued in the US, where Interlink is exclusive on the back, number one.

JOE SAUNDERS: In the debit.

BYRON POLLITT: In the debit, where Interlink is exclusive on the back.

Second, we have also said on a number of occasions that most of our contracts are set up with incentive arrangements that are tied to volume. And so, we will naturally, at our impetus, want to revisit a number of those contracts to make sure that the incentives are structured in a way that makes sense, given the legal environment that we will be under post-Durbin.

I can't think of very many contacts at all that require us, because of the legislation, to revisit the contract. We are going to want to in order to adjust the incentives so that it is a win-win for both us and the financial institution.

OPERATOR: James Friedman, Susquehanna.

JAMES FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP: So, Byron, I'm going to just improvise here in light of your response to that prior question, which was intriguing. I just want to kind of reiterate what it is that you have addressed so far with regard to volume and incentives.

So, you have said that your 16.5% for this year had contemplated already some impact from Durbin. But the comment you just made suggested that perhaps volume and incentive would be in your interest to reduce in fiscal '12, should Durbin actually proceed. Am I misinterpreting that comment?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, you are misinterpreting. The incentive contracts that we have in place are based on -- most of them are based on volume growth. And if the routing provisions go into place where the financial institution potentially has less influence over the actual routing, we just have to look at the incentive provisions to make sure that they are reflective of the way the operating environment will conduct itself under legislation.

OPERATOR: Chris Mammone, Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS MAMMONE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just wondering -- I know it's small, but just wondering if you could elaborate on the PlaySpan acquisition. We know that the digital gaming category is displaying pretty explosive growth, so just any color on early thought to strategy there as you later in that platform? And then maybe as a quick follow-up, was there anything to call out in volumes, Byron, regarding the Easter shift? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: On the Easter shift, I would say there might be -- that one's hard for us. There might be a little noise in April, but we've got a pretty diversified portfolio. And so I don't think there's really a callout April and May.

Early days on PlaySpan. Joe, do you want to add anything? We just completed the acquisition, so we are fast integrating it, and that may be --

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, and it will play a role beyond the gaming space in our strategic direction, which we will -- so it's kind of an ad for next week, which will become much more apparent next week when we make an announcement.

OPERATOR: Moshe Katri, Cowen.

MOSHE KATRI, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thanks for taking my call. Byron, can you comment on the expected time frames for contract renewals with some of the maybe top five or maybe top 10 banks? And how much flexibility do you have in trying to modify some of those contract terms long before some of those contracts expire? Obviously, specifically, we've been focusing on what you were saying regarding rebates, etc. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, there are no top five contracts scheduled for renewal, I want to say for a good 18 months or more. We do from time to time, when the opportunity is attractive, we will look at early renewals. But in terms of major contract renewals, at the end of last year, we pretty much cleared the decks and don't expect -- and we have no scheduled major renewals for at least another 18 months.

JOE SAUNDERS: And we just announced Regions today.

OPERATOR: Bob Napoli, Piper Jaffray.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Joe, I know you're not going to give -- there's a lot more data coming next week. But I was hoping you might be able to give a little more color on, like, with your -- with the Visa announcement that you are leading us to tonight for next week, is it going to be something that is comprehensive with other joint ventures combined that is, like, live business? Is it something that is incremental? I mean, maybe a little bit more color to help prepare us for next week.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I think that what I said earlier was that we recognize that as time moves on, that mobile and e-commerce technology are going to consume a greater and greater role in the electronic payments arena. And if we are going to remain as viable a player as we are today, then we are going to have to be out in front as it relates to interoperability, simplicity, security and factors of that nature.

So we have been paying attention to that. The acquisitions that we have made with that in the back of our mind, and we have a strategy, both in the United States and other mature economies, and a different strategy in different parts of the world, where there are emerging economies that depend more on old technology.

So, it is kind of bringing that together, the way that we think about that, what we've done, what we have ready to introduce and what we will be contemplating doing as time moves on. So, from our point of view, it's significant. And from our point of view, it is -- we are at a better point than any of the competition that we think we have to deal with [has been that], because our solution is a more complete solution than what we've seen in the market heretofore.

And so we've been reluctant to talk about it until we have it put together, and put together in an appropriate way, where we can tell you something positive and significant, and we can talk about how it all comes together. So, that's where we are.

OPERATOR: Bill Carcache, Macquarie.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: There have been some recent announcements that suggest that EMV is gaining traction in the US. Can you talk about whether you're seeing that and share your thoughts on what that would mean for Visa?

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes. It is gaining traction, and we've supported it. We've made an announcement several months ago as it related to our support globally. We didn't encourage it in the US. There have been a lot of things going on, as you are probably aware, like the Card Act and the Durbin Act and distracting to issuers in the United States.

But for cards to be global, the chips are going to play a role. And we encourage moving to chip technology. We don't necessarily encourage moving to PINs and chips. We encourage moving to chips and other forms of identification or authentication than what exists, have existed heretofore.

We don't believe that contactless chips will become something that is ubiquitous in the point-of-sale marketplace in the United States in the near future. We think that there will be specific things to which it is applicable and for which it will be used, but it won't necessarily be widespread tomorrow or the next day, or in 2012 or 2013.

JACK CARSKY: Jose, at this point we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Jim Kissane, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

JIM KISSANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Joe, do you think the economics with mobile will be better, worse or the same compared with plastic today, given that there's many carriers involved, handset manufacturers involved, potentially technology companies? Thank you.

JOE SAUNDERS: I think we have a terrific opportunity in mobile technology. And I did mention in answering one of the other questions, I believe, that we believe that not only will we do well as it relates to the technology and just payments in general, but we do believe that there are other sources of revenue that will be made available to us that are not now. And that takes our CyberSource acquisition, our PlaySpan acquisition and other things that we've done, and when we put it all together, we are pretty excited about the amount of revenue that can come out of this in the future.

Now, let me caution you -- I'm not talking about a spike in revenue in 2012. I mean, this isn't something that happens overnight. It's something that evolves. But as I sit here and look at Visa and I look at our sources of revenue and our growth, I have to anticipate what is going to be fueling that growth three years from now and four years from now, not just what's going to happen next week.

And so, I think that what we're going to talk about next week is the way we're putting things together, and mobile technology in particular will be something that we will be happy, excited to be developing as time goes on.

JACK CARSKY: Well, that ends it. Thank you all very much for joining us today. And if anybody has any follow-up questions, feel free to give myself or Victoria a call.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference call. The call has concluded. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i8150108 : Credit Cards | iposs : Point of Sale Systems | iindstrls : Industrials | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ielec : Electronics | iindele : Industrial Electronics | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
cshbuy : Share Buybacks | cacqu : Acquisitions | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110519e75500ane
  


 HD
 Q1  2011  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,468 words
   PD
2 February 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD, GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Good afternoon, and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal 2011 first-quarter earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer.

This call is currently being webcast over the Internet and can be accessed on the investor relations section of our website at www.investor.Visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. The PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. These include setbacks in the global economy and the impact of new financial reform regulations.

Additional information concerning those factors is available in our last 10-K, and the 10-Q and 8-K filings we filed with the SEC today. They can be accessed through its website and the investor relations section of our website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed on this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal first-quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the investor relations section of our website.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Jack. And as always, thanks to all of you for joining us today.

Visa began fiscal 2011 with another very strong quarter, delivering net operating revenues of over $2.2 billion, a 14% increase over last year. As has been the case for several quarters now, these revenue gains were driven by double-digit growth in payments volume, cross-border volume, and Visa process transaction from across the globe.

Net income for the quarter was $884 million, a 16% increase over the prior year. This equates to diluted earnings per share of $1.23, a 20% increase over the first quarter of 2010.

As previously reported, early in October we funded the litigation escrow by an additional $800 million, which has the same effect as a share repurchase. Later that month, our Board authorized a $1 billion repurchase program, which we actively executed upon during the first quarter by buying over $300 million worth of shares. So, we are off to a good start in terms of returning excess cash to our shareholders. Byron will provide additional detail on the repurchase.

Nearly one year ago at Visa's inaugural investor day, we laid out our long-term strategy that would drive continued revenue growth. The key to this strategy is maintaining a dual focus on growing usage of our core products, which drives the majority of our revenue today, while simultaneously advancing an aggressive innovation agenda to accelerate long-term growth through new platforms and channels.

During that same event, we also made a commitment to further diversify our business, including a long-term goal of ensuring our revenues more fully reflect Visa's global presence. We continue to make steady progress on achieving our aspiration of having more than 50% of revenue come from outside the United States by 2015. Consistent with that objective, in this quarter just over 60% of total revenue growth came from rest of world.

VisaNet is the key asset that enables Visa to deliver on these innovation and revenue diversity commitments. As we invest in long-term growth initiatives, we will maintain the unmatched scale, reliability, security, and convenience that we deliver today. Our competitive advantages in this regard are significant. VisaNet's processing infrastructure is unparalleled in its capabilities, enabling us to deploy those assets and drive more volume and more value to networks and its participants.

Importantly, the flexibility of VisaNet allows us to lead the evolution of our industry towards payment into new technologies and form factors that will spur the future growth of this industry. To illustrate that point, I'd like to provide you with our most recent updates on key initiatives.

First, look at e-commerce and money transfer, two critical channels to driving usage of our products. Growing our e-commerce business remains a top priority for Visa and will be an area of increased emphasis in fiscal 2011. Our investments in this category to date are yielding results, as we saw 25% year-over-year growth in e-commerce payments volume globally in Q1.

CyberSource enables us to accelerate growth of the e-commerce category overall by extending Visa's capability to deliver innovation to merchants, consumers, and partners with services such as fraud management and payment security management. CyberSource got off to a great start in 2011, delivering 40% year-over-year growth in billable transactions in the first quarter.

We have also made progress in driving future growth by continuing to expand merchant relationships with new wins such as Hertz and Tommy Hilfiger. We also signed up LAN Airlines, thanks to a lead from our Visa LAC team that demonstrates the synergies that exist for building the business through shared lead generation.

We've also begun making targeted investments to expand CyberSource's international footprint, including adding personnel to our existing office in Singapore, establishing a legal entity in Brazil, and assessing the landscape in our CEMEA region. While the international buildout will take time, we are excited about the opportunities for growth.

Money transfer is an example of our commitment to leading the evolution in payments, giving consumers a new channel to use their credit, debit, and prepaid products. In fact, today I'm pleased to announce substantial progress on that front. We have expanded our partnership with MoneyGram to introduce the first cash to Visa account program for remittances from the United States to Mexico, which, according to the World Bank, is the largest remittances corridor in the world.

Utilizing the strength of our global network, this program allows consumers in the U.S. to visit any of the 35,000 MoneyGram locations to send funds directly to any Visa credit, debit, or prepaid account in Mexico in a fast, secure, reliable, and cost-effective way.

Money transfer holds significant potential for our business, both in the U.S. and globally. In addition to our strong partnership with MoneyGram, we are currently engaged with other leaders in the field to pursue additional opportunities.

As a leader in product innovation, prepaid is an area where we will continue to invest and foster global growth. In the U.S., our efforts to support issuers of major government prepaid programs continue. With the Bank of America, we recently launched a significant prepaid disbursement card program for the State of California Employment Development Department.

Additionally, the state of New York recently announced the launch of a Visa prepaid pilot program with Chase Bank that will streamline how payments are made to parents receiving adoption subsidies. Adoptive parents now have the option to receive those funds through a Visa-branded prepaid card issued by Chase, instead of receiving their funds by check.

More and more, we see prepaid making a case for itself in every pocket of the globe, and particularly in emerging markets. This is true from Botswana and Georgia, two countries that recently partnered with Visa to introduce their first prepaid product solutions, to India and Pakistan, which are further along the payments development curve.

In India, Visa developed a payment solution for the Unique Identification Authority of India to support that country's massive national program to issue unique identification numbers to local residents. This program has the benefits of deepening our relationship with the State Bank of India, potentially growing the number of transactions on Visa's network, and advancing our goal of financial inclusion for underbanked individuals worldwide.

And in Pakistan, we are gratified to see the progress that has been made since we joined the government of Pakistan and United Bank Ltd., Bank Alfalah, and Habib Bank Limited to launch a national aid disbursement card program after last summer's floods. More than 1.4 million cards have been issued, delivering $317 million in humanitarian aid, one of the fastest rollouts of a disbursement program of this kind.

All of us who have been reading the news have seen a clear buildup of excitement and attention around mobile payments, and we absolutely agree. The convergence of payments with mobile devices is a significant development in the evolution of digital currency and a top priority for Visa.

Visa's presence in mobile payments is already well established worldwide with 25 payment programs in 19 countries worldwide. We expect international markets will continue to be amongst the fastest adopters of this innovative payments technology.

That said, we announced the commercial availability of mobile contactless payments in the United States and in other select markets. Last quarter, I said that we were standing on the threshold, and now, for the first time in Visa's history, a mobile contactless payment solution is officially included in the list of Visa-compliant products available for use by our client financial institutions. Wells Fargo has joined Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, and US Bank in piloting the technology with their customers.

The solution works with existing contactless payment terminals installed at retail outlets worldwide, enabling Visa account holders to simply hold up their phone to pay for purchases.

We recognize that the U.S. market is complex and will require an inclusive approach that addresses the specific needs of all stakeholders. However, I believe Visa's network and payment expertise offers significant competitive advantage over new entrants, and I'm confident that we will play a key role in the evolution of mobile payments in the U.S.

Visa's presence in the mobile channel also offers opportunity to build deeper relationships with existing customers, as well as connect new participants with Visa through value-added products and services. An example is our recent launch of the Visa mobile iPhone application, now available as a free download from the iTunes app store. The application delivers customized discounts and is tailored to consumers' preferences and physical location, which enables merchants to reach consumers in a targeted way and gives consumers access to exclusive deals not available to other shoppers.

Security is another area in which we are evolving and differentiating Visa through innovation. Just last month, we announced significant improvements to VisaNet security capabilities which will dramatically improve our ability to detect and prevent global electronic payments fraud. By enhancing the underlying processing platform that powers Visa's advanced authorization offering, we are enabling our issuers to isolate fraudulent transactions from legitimate ones in real time.

Historical data tells us that this could help identify an incremental 29% of the global fraud annually. Not only is this applicable domestically, but more importantly in cross-border applications where you have higher incidences of fraud and so have greater levels of denied authorizations. Enhanced measures will allow for a greater number of transactions.

It's often easy to take our reliable, secure global processing capabilities for granted. But the reality is that as technology enables new payment platforms and competitors, our processing excellence will differentiate and advantage us competitively.

So in that regard, I'm pleased to report that we had a flawless peak season of transactions processing, which means that we achieved 100% success in authorizing and settling all transactions between Thanksgiving and New Year's Day. This marks the 18th year in a row that we've hit this mark.

That captures some of our most recent highlights, and there will be more to come. Overall, we believe that we are operating from a position of strength, fully utilizing our assets and points of differentiation. Our competitive advantages are significant and will continue to enable us to deliver the payment and commerce solutions that consumers and merchants want.

Finally, I'd like to close with our thoughts about the recent legislative developments in the United States. With respect to the Federal Reserve's initial recommendations related to the debit provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, we believe the government is engaging in price fixing to the benefit of virtually no one. The debit price control legislation is bad policy, and requires thorough review and revision before potential implementation.

To that end, we're working with the entire industry to help the 112th Congress and the Federal Reserve better understand how the provisions create significant unintended consequences that will harm consumers, the economy, and financial institutions of all sizes, even if those institutions were supposedly exempt from the regulation. Because of these threats, particularly the harm to consumers, we believe Congress should re-examine the Durbin provisions and delay implementation to more carefully consider the complexities and unintended consequences of the provisions.

Joint federal agencies should also provide an objective assessment of the impacts and present their findings to Congress for review and debate. We are encouraged by the increasing number of voices speaking up about the unintended consequences of this legislation, most notably the authors of the financial reform, Representative Frank and former Senator Dodd. We believe it is noteworthy that Representative Frank has indicated a willingness to work with those who are similarly concerned and amend the debit provisions to allow financial institutions to recover full costs associated with running a reliable and secure debit network.

I've never seen the industry, including banks of all sizes, this engaged and coalesced around working together to improve the outcome. We and others in the industry are looking forward to participating in Representative Baucus's proposed hearing on this legislation, currently planned for mid-February.

As we have seen, the more this issue is debated, the more questions are raised about who will really benefit in the end. While we don't know yet the final rules, Visa is working aggressively to protect the interests of consumers and our clients, and will support the industry's activities to shape the legislation that impacts community banks, credit unions, and larger banks alike.

But no matter the ultimate outcome, I want to say to you that we remain confident in our ability to deliver strong revenue and earnings growth over the long term. We have developed a priority set of business strategies and are ready to deploy them when the law is finalized, allowing us to utilize our people and our assets to drive us successfully towards our goals. As you can appreciate, I think it's inappropriate to elaborate further on these strategies at this time for a host of reasons.

And now, over to Byron.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. I'll begin with some overall observations.

Our business results reflect continued positive economic momentum, which remains global in scope. We saw solid worldwide growth, driven by increases in cross-border travel, and healthy gains in both credit and debit payment volumes.

Now let me quantify these trends. First, I will cover our global payment volume and transaction trends for both the September and December quarters, as well as payment and transaction results for the first four weeks of January. Following the review of our revenue drivers, I'll cover the financial highlights of our fiscal first quarter, followed by guidance updates for fiscal-year 2011.

Global payment volume growth for the September quarter in constant dollars was 14%, and improved slightly in the December quarter to 15%. We saw the following breakdowns in December quarter figures. In the U.S., payment volume growth was 12%, down slightly from 13% in the September quarter. Rest of world payment volume on a constant dollar basis grew at 17%, up two percentage points from the 15% rate in the September quarter.

More recently, through January 28, U.S. payment volume growth moderated to a positive 10%. Although not yet available, we expect rest of world payment volume growth to be significantly higher.

Global cross-border volumes delivered a healthy 15% growth rate on a constant-dollar basis in the December quarter, as the world continued to travel. And more recently, through January 28, cross-border volumes on a constant-dollar basis sustained momentum with a 16% rate of growth.

Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled 12.6 billion in the fiscal first quarter, an increase of 15% over the similar period a year ago and just slightly behind the 16% growth rate we saw in the September quarter. Through January 28, process transactions stayed the course, posting growth of 14%.

CyberSource billable transactions totaled 987 million for the quarter, a very strong 40% growth rate. We expect continued strength in this part of our business as e-commerce activity continues to grow, both in the United States and internationally.

Now, turning to the income statement. In our first fiscal quarter, gross revenues of $2.6 billion were up 13% from the similar period in 2010. Net operating revenues in the quarter were $2.2 billion, a 14% increase over the first quarter of 2010, driven by a sustained economic recovery, ongoing secular growth, and better than anticipated cross-border transactions.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was just over $1 billion, up 22% over the prior-year period. This is reflective of strong payment volume growth in the quarter ending September and the impact of pricing adjustments.

Data processing revenue was $844 million, up 10% over the prior-year's quarter, based on strong process transaction growth rates for both Visa process and CyberSource transactions. As expected and discussed previously, data processing revenue growth was moderated by the impact of key contract renewals last quarter and by the prospective removal of certain offsetting gateway pass-through revenues and expenses.

International transaction revenues were up 14% to $630 million, due to the sustained improvement in cross-border volumes during the period. Client incentives as a percent of gross revenues came in at 15%, a little lower than our guidance, but on track with expectations. We still expect client incentives to be in the range of 16% to 16.5% for the entire year.

Total operating expenses for the quarter were $872 million, up 17% from the prior year, driven by the incremental expense from the acquisition of CyberSource, as well as the non-recurrence of a prior-year one-time benefit of $41 million, associated with the prepayment of the retailer's litigation. Additionally, remember that we announced an earnings-neutral change in income statement presentation related to revenue and operating expense associated with certain pass-through activities.

As a result, $67 million of revenue and expenses, which were booked in Q1 fiscal-year 2010, will not recur in Q1 fiscal-year 2011. In the first quarter, this represented four percentage points of revenue growth.

For the remainder of the year, these changes in presentation will continue to be earnings-neutral and will impact revenue growth.

The foreign exchange impact on net revenue in the first fiscal quarter was moderated by our hedging activities and contributed a positive 1% increase, compared to the same year period. While our operating margin for the quarter was 61%, please note that we expect to aggressively fund necessary long-term investments across our entire business.

One call-out on depreciation and amortization. While the CyberSource acquisition added $22 million of incremental depreciation and amortization expense to the quarter, as an offset, beginning this fiscal year, we no longer recognize the $17 million in quarterly amortization for the asset step-up that was applied when we first merged in 2007. This step-up became fully amortized at the end of September 2010.

Capital expenditures were $75 million in the quarter, representing ongoing investment in technology, infrastructure, and growth initiatives.

Moving on to the balance sheet, we ended the first quarter in great shape with negligible debt, and cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available for sale investments of $6.5 billion. Of this total, $2.7 billion is restricted cash, which represents amounts sufficient to fully pay out the balance of the American Express settlement over the remaining five quarterly payments, with $2.3 billion uncommitted as of the end of the first quarter.

As Joe mentioned earlier, during the quarter we effectively repurchased approximately $1.1 billion of Class A shares at an average per-share price of $72.08. This resulted in the lowering of our outstanding share count by 15.3 million shares, taking us to 713 million on an as-converted basis at the end of the fiscal first quarter.

Management remains committed to returning excess cash to shareholders. Accordingly, we will continue to be active buyers of our shares in the future at prices that align with our long-term view of the value of our shares. At the end of this fiscal quarter, $694 million of open to buy still remains from the $1 billion authorization approved in October.

Last week, we announced the early release of all remaining locked-up Class C shares. This means 55 million shares will become eligible for sale on February 7, 1.5 months ahead of the prescribed unlock date of March 25. All Class C shares sold in the public market after this date will automatically convert to Class A shares. As a reminder, the release does not increase our outstanding share count, nor is there any dilutive effect.

In order to broaden our participation in the Brazilian prepaid market, we recently announced the sale of our 10% stake in Visa Vale issuer CBSS to Banco do Brasil and Bradesco. CBSS will continue to issue Visa Vale prepaid cards in Brazil.

Visa's gross proceeds from the sale are $103 million. Upon regulatory approval, we will recognize an estimated pretax gain of approximately $85 million net of transaction costs and will record the event in investment income. The amount of the gain, net of tax, is estimated to be approximately $44 million.

As for our guidance for 2011, given results to date and little incremental clarity from the recent initial Fed rulemaking, we have no changes from our prior outlook. As evidenced by our stock buyback, we remain optimistic about Visa's growth prospects over the long term. Once the final rules have been promulgated by the Fed, we will be in a better position to share with you our views on the financial impact to Visa in 2012.

And with that, we are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Tim Willi, Wells Fargo Securities.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about money transfer, and how you sort of see your expansion plans not only geographically, but if you'd also shed any light on sort of the economics that are shared between you and future money transfer partners, how you think about that occurring as the business opportunity evolves?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think we mentioned pretty succinctly the arrangement we have with MoneyGram, and much of the revenue that we generate out of that comes through the transactional volume on our cards, both at the front and the back end of the transaction.

Beyond that, money transfer is an integral part of our mobile strategy or our mobile technology strategy, both domestically and outside of the United States. I think that money transfer takes on different forms, depending on what part of the world it occurs in. The transactions or the cards that we provided in Pakistan are a good example of that -- a good example of how something (technical difficulty) might be manifest. Some of the things that we are beginning to think about doing in India also would embrace that notion.

As it relates to our financial arrangements between various different parties from a money transfer point of view, I think I'll decline to comment on that at this point in time. But we are excited about the notion of money transfer and how it will fit into our revenue going forward.

OPERATOR: Bob Napoli, Piper Jaffray & Co.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Thank you. Good afternoon. Well-done upfront comments, Joe.

As far as your goals for 2015, over 50% of your revenue international, it looks to me like -- I mean, are you progressing faster than you thought? It looks -- your revenue, your payments volume is down to 55%, now U.S. actually down 200 basis points just quarter over quarter. And it looks to me like you might get your payment volumes under 50% in the U.S. in maybe a year to a year and a half. So, are you progressing faster? What is the difference in the revenue yields on the U.S. and international?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, there are differences in our yields around the world, depending on what business we're in and various different geographies.

Having said that, as it relates to your question, I think we have a goal out there. I think we're well on our way to meeting that goal. We might get it done a little bit faster. Remember, I've talked about country acceleration strategies, and we're doing much better in Brazil and Russia than we had thought we would be doing. We think that the same thing will happen in Japan and we are looking at several other countries right now.

I can't bring that all together as succinctly as you might like and say, hey, we're going to have more than 50% of our revenue coming from outside the United States in two years or three years, but we are well on our way to getting to that point, and let me re-emphasize what I said in the comments, and that is that 60% of our growth in the past quarter came from -- revenue growth came from transactions outside the United States.

OPERATOR: Jason Kupferberg, UBS.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, guys. Good afternoon. Joe, just wanted to pick up on some of the comments you made around what's going on in Washington, and just to get your sense if there is truly a genuine effort within Congress to pursue legislation that would actually change the language of the Durbin Amendment. And absent that type of legislation, do you feel that the public-comment period and lobbying by various folks on the Hill would be enough to try and make the final version of the rules much less onerous on the industry than the initial proposals? Because it seems like the Fed came out December 16 and said, hey, it doesn't really matter whether or not we like the Durbin Amendment or whether it makes logical sense, they are simply charged with writing rules that implement the language and intent of the amendment and they kind of said, hey, our hands are tied.

So, I just wanted to get a sense from your vantage point, is the approach here to really push the legislative path to try and actually get the language of the amendment changed, as opposed to just work kind of softer lobbying channels, which was kind of done back in November and December, and, at least as it relates to the initial proposals, didn't seem to have a big impact on the Fed's initial decision-making.

JOE SAUNDERS: I learned in November and December that it is foolish to try to predict exactly what Congress will or will not do.

Having said that, I think I lean towards agreeing with you as it relates to the Fed and what they are able or not able to do. And while I don't think that dialoguing with the Fed, or sending opinions to the Fed, or commenting to the Fed about what's already out there, as we are supposed to do, is over, and while I don't necessarily believe that some things can't be changed at the margin, I would say that the focus would be the conventional focus at this particular point in time. And our position, as well as I think every other financial institution in the United States, is that the enactment of this legislation should be delayed and the unintended consequences should be studied, and it should require some action to reinstate or to bring into effect anything associated with this amendment, predicated on the findings of that study.

OPERATOR: Adam Frisch, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM FRISCH, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: The question we get a lot is around the fiscal 2012 guide, and while you were able to give the fiscal 2011 outlook, which theoretically includes one quarter of the Durbin impact but not of you on fiscal 2012, so Byron, my question for you is can you provide at least some color on the influences to the P&L in 2012 as a result of the regulatory activity? Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: Thank you for asking, Adam. Our view has been from the beginning that when we guide to 2012, we would like the benefit of being able to interpret the rules that the Fed has promulgated and to put them into the context of the mitigation strategies and our go-forward strategies in the debit arena that we have crafted, knowing that once the rules are clarified, we will know which ones are relevant, we'll be able to much better size the impact by line item, and be able to give to all of you much more thoughtful guidance than we would today, which would be largely speculative.

And so, until the rules are clarified, at which point we'll be able to -- we'll be much more open about what our competitive strategies would be at that time, we are going to defer at least another quarter before we address 2012.

JOE SAUNDERS: Having said that, we've repeatedly suggested by buying back our own stock and by publicly making comments that we believe that Visa will survive and be a very viable growth company in the future, regardless of the outcome of -- the specific outcome of the legislation.

But the specifics of that and the timing of what happens and how things may or may not happen really is, as Byron said, pretty dependent on what the final outcome of everything that is currently happening.

The comps, I will remind you that the majority of our growth in the past quarter did not come from the debit-card business. Much of it came from outside the United States and from other initiatives that we have within the United States, and I'll remind you that the debit business is about -- in the neighborhood of 20% of our total revenues.

So, I -- and of course, without being specific, we're not going to lose all that business under any circumstances. So, you're going to have to think about it in your own terms, but we are excited about Visa's future and we'll be specific about how excited we are when we have a framework in which to communicate it.

OPERATOR: Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Appreciate all the details. Kind of as a follow-up to what Adam just asked, I saw in the 10-Q that you noted it's going to be possible to mitigate the negative impacts from the Reform Act, and I'm curious, are these mitigation efforts going to come from primarily diversifying away from the U.S. and growing the international business like you just talked about, Joe? Or do you have a game plan in place in the U.S. to, I guess, reinvent the business model, particularly in debit? I'm not really looking for details. Just trying to rank the two in terms of priorities as we think about modeling the mid-term to longer-term outlook for Visa.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, certainly not all of our mitigation efforts will be focused on increasing our revenue outside the United States, although that is and has been, even prior to Durbin, one of our primary objectives, and it's an important part of who we will be in the future.

But there are mitigation efforts that we will back against the business in the United States, and as we've just said, I mean, I'm not going to go into detail, but we're not going to turn our back on the United States, and we expect to grow revenue and develop our business, whatever the outcome of the legislation is.

OPERATOR: Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Byron, real quickly, two expense items a little bit higher than what we were looking for here. On the personnel side, obviously it looks like you guys have the inclusion of the CyberSource stuff, and you talked a little bit in the 10-Q about having some additional headcount.

And then on the other line item, I guess if you could also address the G&A side with a comment about the reserves for potential government assessment. How big is that, and is that a recurring item or was this a one-time item?

BYRON POLLITT: On the personnel side, the major call-out is we had -- we are lapping a quarter in which we did not have CyberSource. So, we are -- that's the single largest component being added to the personnel line year over year.

And then, in addition to that, we are actively staffing our growth initiatives outside the United States, and so as we continue to put more boots on the ground to drive and accelerate revenue growth outside the U.S., you're going to see some of that in the personnel line, which will be somewhat amplified by the weakening U.S. dollar. So you're seeing some foreign exchange impact in that line as well.

With regards to the G&A line, there are always going to be some factors that are non-recurring that are adjustments to certain reserves. That's the line item that it appears in, and this quarter, we -- part of that explanation is nonrecurring accruals related to those matters.

OPERATOR: Rod Bourgeois, Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, Inc.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Turning away from the Durbin Amendment stuff, can you give us an update on the latest status on the merchant litigation case in the Brooklyn court, and can you give us any thoughts on how to dimension the possibilities for a settlement and what forms the settlement might take? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Unfortunately, the answer is no. I can't answer any of those questions. Obviously, the litigation continues, and there are conversations, but beyond that, I really would be foolish to say anything else.

BYRON POLLITT: If I could just add one comment, actually to Julio's prior question, Julio, the G&A also is impacted by the addition of CyberSource, so literally all the line items in the P&L are being impacted by the pickup of CyberSource expenses. So that's another important driver of that line.

OPERATOR: Bruce Harting, Barclays Capital.

BRUCE HARTING, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I have two burning questions, but I have to choose. Let's see. I guess -- we agree with your position on the Durbin legislation and unintended consequences, but in the event that the Fed rule stands as is and they extend the exclusivity issue to signature debit, what are the technology difficulties or what would you be lobbying to the Fed right now in argument of not extending the signature? Indeed, it looks like there are only two networks able to provide that, correct? So, wouldn't that just solidify the strength of the oligopoly that they are worried about policing?

And who pays the cost to change the cards? Would that be incurred by the banks and how long would it take to implement that change? Would it take -- would that be something that could be turned around by the banks in terms of reissuing new cards with two networks within a month, or is that a six-month to 12-month issue? And is it true that the merchant acquirer decides on the routing anyway, and wouldn't they be incentivized to go with -- to stick with you since many of the merchant acquirers are your customers currently and would want to get the discount? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: You've asked a lot of extraordinarily good questions. And I -- and therein lies the dilemma.

Everything you said is reasonably accurate. We are in a very good position, and regardless of what happens, I don't think you're going to see any kind of an overnight deterioration and I think you're obviously going to see us doing everything that we can to be the network of choice, and I think that there are many compelling reasons that we can put forth that will help us secure that position.

And whatever happens, we look forward to using our people and our assets, which we believe in this regard are second to none, to make sure that we come out ahead of the game.

OPERATOR: Jim Kissane, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

JIM KISSANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, and thanks for all the color today. Byron, can you give us a sense of what portion of your U.S. revenue is from issuers and what portion is from acquirers? Again, just on the U.S. side. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Jim, for some time, it has been plus or minus -- roughly equal, plus or minus. It has not materially changed when we talked -- first talked about that. I think it was about a year ago. It might be a bit more -- if I were to round it, we would round it a bit more to the acquirer, but there's been no material change since we first voiced that ratio about a year ago.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer, CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: I wanted to follow up on your discussion in mobile. Considering we're likely to see the likes of Google and Apple come out in a big way supporting contactless payments this year, how do you expect or how do you envision the re-terminalization to occur? Do you expect there to be subsidies to get merchants involved who will likely be offering those subsidies, and will we see the tone of Visa's marketing in the U.S. change to support some of the issuers that are trying to roll this out? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Visa is supportive of chip technology on a global basis. The timing of what will occur and how it will occur is still somewhat questionable, particularly in the United States.

I think that the current state of affairs between the Card Act and the Durbin Amendment has stopped some issuers as it relates to what do they want to invest and how do they want to invest? I don't think that there's any magic wand that is going to automatically make contactless chip terminals or contact chip terminals automatically appear in an overwhelming way in the United States. I think that that will indeed take some time, and I think most issuers and even merchants believe that to be the case.

I'm not certain, but I actually think there are somewhat fewer contactless terminals today than there may have been a year ago. So, we've got -- there are issues in that regard as it relates to standards -- chip standards. There isn't one contactless chip standard around the world, and so all of this has to be reconciled before it becomes -- we become a country where people walk around with cell phones and just automatically walk into face-to-face merchants and swipe their cell phone on a contactless.

That being said, there is an inextricable momentum to mobile technology, and whether -- and contactless chips and that sort of thing that is beginning to occur, and it will manifest itself over some period of time. We are extraordinarily involved in those efforts, and things that we are doing in that regard will become apparent as each quarter goes on, and we're reasonably confident that we have invested the right time and effort and capital into taking our business in the appropriate direction.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: I'm going to ask some easier questions. Just model related, Byron, on that personnel color that you provided, so that delta year over year, is that something we should extrapolate for the remainder of the year across the quarters?

And then, you mentioned rebates kind of coming in within the same range you guys had articulated. That would suggest that the next three quarters' run rates are probably going to be higher than what we saw in the first quarter, obviously. Is there any kind of seasonality that we should expect within that trend? And I guess that's it. Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: On the first one, with regards to personnel, as you readjust your models for that line item, it would make sense to look at the fourth quarter of last fiscal year, recognizing that we integrated CyberSource in, I think, the last two months of the quarter, so you should see a beginning step-up in personnel expense the next -- so the quarter just completed. That's much more representative of what you should be thinking about going forward, recognizing that there's always going to be some degree of lumpiness in personnel as we make various accruals. But I would -- we would suggest keying more off the first quarter.

The -- as it relates to -- our word, our expression, is client incentives. I think another company uses rebates. With regards to client incentives, this is -- as we've talked about historically, this is a category that is -- that tends to be a bit lumpy quarter to quarter based on when certain contracts are signed, when renewals are signed, and so, if -- rather than seasonality, let's use, it's a bit lumpy.

And therefore, we came in a bit lower than our full-year guidance in the first quarter. Therefore, you should see some -- in future quarters, we would expect it to come in a bit higher, to average out somewhere between 16 and 16.5 on a full-year basis.

OPERATOR: Chris Mammone, Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS MAMMONE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just a question on rest of world credit volume. A nice pickup in the most recent data, so I'm just wondering if you had anything to call out there as to what's sort of driving that solid growth rate?

BYRON POLLITT: So, on rest of world credit volume, looking at it on a constant-dollar basis, it has been pretty steady, again on a constant-dollar basis, pretty steady double-digit, mid-teen double-digits through 2010, and January picked up a little bit, but that's -- no, the first quarter picked up a little bit. So it looks like very sustained positive momentum.

Our transaction volume is picking up. Our process transactions are picking up outside the United States, so that's encouraging. And the cross-border travel outside the United States has remained very, very healthy, so -- with January a pickup over the first-quarter levels by a couple of points.

So, from that standpoint, the economic momentum out -- for rest of world appears very solid, very sustained, both from a domestic standpoint and from a cross-border standpoint.

OPERATOR: Bryan Keane, Credit Suisse.

BRYAN KEANE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I guess just two questions. I guess, first, do you have any indication from Washington that getting the Durbin Amendment delayed is a realistic outcome, meaning is there some real legs behind this right now?

And then, secondly, just on mobile payments, how will the economics change with the new competitors getting involved, like Apple, Nokia, Isis, and others? Or do you think the economics of Visa, like they have in the physical world, will be the same in the mobile world? Thanks so much.

JOE SAUNDERS: I can't predict what Congress is going to do. I can remind you that there is a significant effort that is going on that is embraced by large banks, midsize banks, small banks, credit unions. I think that you will see some reaction from consumers because, in our opinion, consumers have been thrown under the bus in this legislation.

And so, in that regard, I would have to think that just through some of the conversations we've had and because it is the right thing, and I want to emphasize it is the right thing. We are on the right side of this issue. I'd like to think that something will happen, and I would like to think, as I said earlier, that it will take the form of a delay in the implementation of the legislation until the unintended consequences can be better assessed.

So, but I can't promise you that. I can't tell you that I've had secret conversations with anybody, and that this is a slam dunk because none of those things would be true.

So, now that I've answered that, I forgot the second part of -- oh, mobile. You know, that's an interesting question. But when you look at mobile technology, as I said just a few minutes ago, it's coming or it's here, however you want to define it. It makes it easier for people to shop. It opens up new avenues of things that may be purchased through your wallet. And there are a lot of technology companies that have significantly positive offerings or capabilities in this regard.

Visa also has significant capability. We still have VisaNet. We still have a whole processing infrastructure. There is still 1.8 billion cardholders around the world. And we have been vigorously looking at and working on the technology. And we think we're going to be in a very good position as it relates to this -- to the evolution of mobile technology in the electronic payments business.

I think that it will afford us some revenue opportunities that we currently don't have. And I think that will be a very positive thing. Will it change some of the other economics we have? I mean, it could. It could. But when we look at the overall landscape, we're very comfortable that this is a positive thing for Visa and will be a positive thing going forward.

And remember, we don't not talk to these other entities that you're referring to, and they do need some of the capabilities that we have. They're either going to have to provide them themselves or they're going to have to come to somebody like us to get them, so there are compelling reasons for partnerships to occur.

You know, a significant -- even when you look at somebody like PayPal, let's not forget that a significant amount of their business is driven through Visa and MasterCard, and that isn't about to change in the near future, and I know that's not totally analogous to mobile technology, but I think that what Visa has put together over the years is very compelling as it relates to what it brings to the party from a speed or reliability, a privacy and a security point of view. I don't think we're going to let that go.

JACK CARSKY: With that, we have time for a final question.

OPERATOR: Glenn Greene, Oppenheimer & Co.

GLENN GREENE, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I'll make this quick. Just for Byron, the services yield went up pretty significantly Q-to-Q, and I think you alluded to a pricing change in the quarter. Does that account for the whole differential and the yield, and is it sort of a sustainable yield level going forward?

BYRON POLLITT: That is the primary driver, and that would be sustainable going forward.

JACK CARSKY: Thank you all very much for joining us today. If anybody has any follow-up questions, feel free to call investor relations. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference call. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
iposs : Point of Sale Systems | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | i8150107 : Debit Cards | iindstrls : Industrials | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | iindele : Industrial Electronics | i8150108 : Credit Cards | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110330e722004pi
  


 HD
 Q3  2010  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,623 words
   PD
28 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal Q3 2010 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD - GLOBAL IR, VISA, INC.: Good afternoon and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal third-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast over the Internet. It can be accessed on the investor relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. The PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

   TD
Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and, as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning these factors is available in the Company's filings with the SEC, which can be accessed through the SEC's website and the investor relations section of the Visa website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma-related financial information disclosed in this call, related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC, are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal third-quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the investor relations section of our website.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN & CEO, VISA, INC.: Thanks, Jack, and thank, everyone -- thanks, everyone, for joining the call. Visa once again delivered strong earnings results. Against the backdrop of a recovering global economy, we posted net operating revenues of just over $2 billion, a 23% increase over the year-ago period. Revenues were driven by double-digit growth in payments volume, cross border volume and Visa-processed transactions coming from all areas of the globe. Net income on a GAAP basis was $716 million, a 45% increase over the prior year. Overall, we more than delivered on guidance, with fiscal third-quarter earnings on a GAAP basis at $0.97 per diluted share, a 49% increase over the third quarter of 2009. And these figures exclude the impact of the gain from the VisaNet do Brasil sale in the prior-year period. We also successfully completed a de facto $500 million stock repurchase, while continuing to invest in newer initiatives that will fuel our future growth.

On today's call, I'm going to leave the more detailed view of our financials to Byron while I address a few items I'm sure are at the top of your mind. Let me begin by providing color on recent events that have unfolded in Washington. It's clear that the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that was signed into law last week will reshape the US debit landscape. However, precisely how the law will impact Visa's business, and that of our financial institution clients, is yet to be determined. As you may know, the Federal Reserve has embarked upon a rule-making process to clarify the details of the legislation and how and when it will be implemented. We have an opportunity to inform their deliberations and we intend to participate in the process as a constructive voice. In parallel, we have teams at Visa focused on developing a range of business strategies that will enable us to compete effectively in the new environment once the details of the law become clearer. So, until the fed finalizes the rules and until we finalize our mitigation response, it's not possible to specifically detail our actions.

On the other hand, there are things that we do know. First, given the timeframes outlined in the legislation, our business should not begin to feel the effects of the legislation until this time next year. Therefore, I do not anticipate any impact in FY 2010 and looking ahead to 2011, I expect the impact will be modest and contained to our fourth fiscal quarter. With that, I feel confident reiterating our earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2011 at better than 20% growth. And per past practice, we'll be updating other guidance metrics for 2011 on our October call.

We do know that we are working with the best set of assets in the industry. We are the lowest-cost provider of debit services, we have deep debit expertise and we have a powerful brand. We also know that debit delivers tremendous value, as evidenced by the growing appetite of consumers, governments and others to use the product and by merchants who accept it. Given our continuing discussions with our clients and the preliminary business strategy options that we have already developed, I'm very confident that we will effectively adapt to the new environment and continue to lead growth in this segment of the business.

And as you think about our future prospects, it's important to keep in mind that Visa has a globally diverse business. While future opportunities in the US remain, our growth is increasingly likely to come from outside the US borders, regardless of the domestic environment. Today, our non-US revenues make up approximately 40% of our business, and one of our stated 2015 goals is to generate half of our revenues from operations in the rest of the world. So, when I step back and take a global view of our existing business and future opportunities, I'm reminded how strongly I feel that I would rather be Visa than anyone else in our industry and how personally committed I am to accomplishing the goals we established at last March's investment day.

Turning to the legal front, we have two topics to update you on. We have made progress on our ongoing engagement with the US Department of Justice regarding its investigation into the payment card industry and its key players. We have been cooperating with the Department to satisfy the civil investigative demand filed in late October 2008 concerning the major payment networks' rules on surcharge and merchant steering, as previously reported, and in recent months have met with the Department on numerous occasions. The Department has indicated that it is considering filing a civil lawsuit challenging rules prohibiting surcharging on credit and differential discounting between networks, similar to the claims that have been included within the merchant interchange litigation that's been pending since 2005. Although the outcome is uncertain at this time, we are currently engaged in constructive negotiations with the Department to resolve its concerns as it relates to Visa, without litigation or payment of monetary damages and in a way that proactively addresses concerns in the covered litigation.

Regarding the covered litigation, it is proceeding on its normal course and we continue to be actively involved in settlement discussions. As a reminder, this litigation is covered by our US financial institutions under our retrospective responsibility plan. That being said, I remain highly confident in Visa's strategic plan interderced -- introduced, excuse me, earlier this year which will continue to guide our priorities, initiatives and investments over the long term. In particular, we remain intensely focused on innovation, which is critical to accelerating growth and further diversifying our revenue. To that end, Visa completed the acquisition of CyberSource right on schedule. CyberSource enables us to expand our capabilities and competitive position in eCommerce, one of the fastest-growing segments of the payment industry. Not only do they possess approximately 25% of all eCommerce dollars transacted in the US today, there is also tremendous opportunity for us to expand CyberSource globally, leading to new customers and the potential -- and the potential to increase revenues from international markets. We look forward to commenting on our joint performance in the quarters to come.

Another innovation priority for Visa is mobile payments and on that front, among other mobile initiatives, we built upon our existing relationship with Monitise by establishing a joint venture to provide financial institutions and mobile network operators in India with a technology platform that enables them to offer a range of mobile financial services to consumers. Additionally, in May we were selected by the State Bank of India to execute a joint venture in India in partnership with [Ellabon] to help drive the growth of digital currency in this important, emerging economy by increasing acceptance and acquiring services. We also continued to successfully win new contracts and expand our relationships with issuers, merchants and governments around the globe. For instance, we just signed a five-year credit and debit deal with Bradesco, one of our most important partners in Brazil. It is largest contract we've ever closed in our Latin American region.

And finally, I'm pleased we were able to continue delivering on our strategy to return excess cash to our shareholders in the third quarter via the funding of our litigation escrow, which has the same effect as a $500 million share repurchase. This brought our fiscal year-to-date share repurchase total to almost $1.2 billion and we'll continue to be opportunistic in this regard over the next quarter.

Let me now turn the call over to Byron to take you through the details of our financial results and I'll be back to wrap up.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA, INC.: Thank you, Joe. Let me start with the financial highlights of our fiscal third quarter, followed by the global payment volume trends for the June quarter, as well as payment and transaction results for July. I will then conclude with updates on our Q4 and full-year guidance.

Global payment volume growth for the March quarter in constant dollars rose to 13% from a positive 8% in the December period. We witnessed meaningful growth in every region of the globe. In the US, payment volume growth was 13% in the March quarter, up from 7% in the December quarter. Debit continued its strong recent trend, delivering 21% growth compared to 15% growth in the December quarter. Credit accelerated to a positive 3% growth in the March quarter from a negative 1% rate in the December period. On a constant dollar basis, rest of world payment volume grew at 14% in the March quarter, up from a 10% rate in the December quarter. These results recognized continued secular growth and a strong and healthy diversified country base outside the US.

Now, turning to the metrics, that drive revenue on a current basis. Global cross-border volume growth accelerated considerably in the June quarter, posting a 17% growth rate on a constant dollar basis from the 12% rate in the March period. Growth in the month of June at 18% suggests that, in contrast to our view a quarter ago, this is more representative of a broader, cyclical trend rather than just pent-up demand. Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled $11.7 billion in the fiscal third quarter, an increase of 14% over the similar period a year ago and on par with the 14% growth rate we saw in the March quarter.

Turning to the income statement, in our fiscal third quarter gross revenues of $2.4 billion were up 22% from the similar period in 2009. Volume and support incentives, as a percentage of gross revenues, came in at 16%, below the prior-year level of 17% and below our expectation. The expected rate of 18% was predicated on the signing of certain contracts during the quarter, which carry a high level of one-time contra revenue incentives. While timing is still uncertain, we project these contracts will be signed in our fourth fiscal quarter, which would elevate the support and incentive line into the range of 17% to 18% of gross revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter. Net operating revenues in the quarter were just above $2 billion, a 23% increase over the operating revenues recorded for the third fiscal quarter of 2009, driven by broad-based economic recovery and secular growth.

Moving to the individual revenue line item, service revenue was $873 million, up 13% over the prior-year period and reflecting -- and reflective of accelerating payment volume growth in the quarter ending March. The growth rate for the June quarter should mirror the March quarter's results. Data processing revenue was $792 million, up 31% over the prior year, based on strong process transaction growth of 14% and the final quarter of previously-enacted pricing action. In contrast, our final fiscal quarter will see data processing revenue driven by processed transaction growth, which will be partially offset by yield compression due to two factors--first, recent contract wins and conversions and second, more clients exceeding volume thresholds, which qualify them for lower prices.

International transaction revenues were up a solid 25% to $574 million, due to continuing improvement in cross-border volumes during the period. The foreign exchange impact on revenue in the third fiscal quarter was a positive 1%, as a result of continued currency volatility combined with our hedging activity. For the full fiscal year we continue to expect the foreign exchange impact on revenue growth to be slightly positive.

Our operating margin was 56%, in line with our guidance of mid to high 50%s. Total operating expenses for the third quarter were $892 million, representing a year-over-year increase of $68 million, or 8%, driven by anticipated increases in marketing and advertising spend related to the FIFA World Cup and continued investment in growth initiatives. Our expectation continues to be that expenses for the full year will be relatively flat to the 2009 level on a GAAP basis, including about $15 million in CyberSource-related acquisition cost but excluding any CyberSource operating expenses incurred subsequent to the acquisition on July 21.

On a sequential quarter basis we saw moderately higher expenses in marketing and advertising given our higher spending on the FIFA World Cup event. We also saw higher professional fee expenses as a result of costs associated with the CyberSource transaction and higher investment in product initiatives and IT infrastructure upgrades. We expect to see a further sequential increase in professional fees in the fourth fiscal quarter as a result of closing and integration costs associated with the CyberSource transaction and continued investments in products and infrastructure. Capital expenditures were $65 million in the quarter and $144 million year to date, representing ongoing investment in technology, infrastructure and growth initiative. Based on higher levels of spend in the third and fourth fiscal quarters, for all of fiscal 2010 we now expect capital expenditures to be moderately higher than $200 million.

Moving on to the balance sheet, we ended the third quarter in great shape, with negligible debt and cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and available-for-sale investments of $7.4 billion. Of this total, $2 billion is restricted cash, which represents amounts sufficient to fully pay out the American Express settlement with $1.5 billion that is currently uncommitted. As you'll recall, in May we placed $500 million into the escrow account, which had the effect of a 6.7 million share buyback. As of the end of fiscal Q3, Visa's outstanding share count is now 731 million on an as-converted basis.

Now, I'll comment on the June quarter's payment volume data and our early read on July, then I'll cover our updated financial expectations for the balance of the year. Global payment volume growth for the June quarter in constant dollars rose to 14% from 13% in the March quarter. We experienced meaningful growth in every one of our global regions. In the US, payment volume growth was 14% in the June quarter, up slightly from 13% in the March quarter. Debit continued its strong recent trend, delivering 21% growth, same as the March quarter. Credit accelerated to 6% growth in the June quarter from 3% in the March period. More recently, through the 21st of July, US payment volume grew at 13%, 1 percentage point below the June quarter rate but 1 percentage point higher than the month of June growth rate of 12%. Further deconstructed, debit grew at 20%, while credit grew at 6%.

On a constant dollar basis, rest of world payment volume grew at 14% in the June quarter, same as the March quarter. These results recognize continued secular growth and a strong and healthy diversified country base outside the US. As mentioned earlier, global cross-border volume grew at 17% in the June quarter on a constant dollar basis. Growth in the month of June was a strong 18%. July cross-border volume growth on a constant basis sustained the strong rate we saw in June, posting an 18% rate of growth through the 21st of the month. Processed transactions through the 21st grew at 15% over the prior-year period, up slightly from the 14% growth posted for the third fiscal quarter and up slightly from a 13% growth rate delivered in the month of June.

Now, let me comment on our expectations for the remainder of the fiscal year for operating performance and the resulting impact on our full-year guidance. We continue to be comfortable with a net revenue growth target at the high end of the 11% to 15% range. Despite our year-to-date growth of 18%, we anticipate a couple of dynamics in the fourth quarter. First, the data processing fee increase we implemented in July 2009 lapsed in June 2010. This will contribute to a significantly-lower growth rate in fiscal Q4 for reasons described earlier. Second, we expect volume and support incentives to increase in the fourth quarter for two reasons. First, higher earnout rates tied to the higher payment volumes we're experiencing. And second, as mentioned earlier, we anticipate signing certain contracts which, if concluded, would result in an incentive level as a percent of gross revenue of around 18%. This, in turn, would result in a full-year rate at the high end of our previously-stated range of 16% to 17%.

Our expectations for full-year 2010 operating margin remains in the mid to high 50%s. Increased marketing, advertising and new initiative spending in the second half ,combined with the CyberSource transaction expenses, offset the higher margin we reported early in the year. We are narrowing our guidance for our full fiscal-year 2010 tax rate to a range of 37% to 38% in spite of the year-to-date run rate of approximately 36%. This refinement reflects an anticipated increase in our effective tax rate in Q4 due to the impact of the CyberSource transaction, the true up of our state tax rate and the related adjustments to our deferred tax liabilities recorded as a part of our October 2007 reorganization. Taken together, we anticipate that these factors will cause our fiscal fourth quarter effective tax rate to be closer to 40%. The full-year 2010 tax rate keeps us on track to reduce Visa's effective rate.

We continue to target better than 20% earnings per share growth in 2010 on a GAAP basis, excluding the VisaNet Brasil gain and a 2011 earnings per share growth goal of better than 20%. Both years include the addition of CyberSource. Regarding the CyberSource impact on fiscal 2010 earnings, we expect the Q4 impact on EPS to be $0.03 to $0.04, of which approximately $0.01 is from transaction costs and is already included in our full-year operating expense guidance, and an additional $0.02 to $0.03 from combined operations, largely driven by the amortization of intangible assets arising from the transactions purchase accounting. We still expect this transaction to be slightly dilutive in fiscal-year 2011.

Turning to capital expenditures, we are adjusting our expectation around CapEx to be a moderately higher than $200 million. And lastly, our projection of free cash flow for the year remains north of $2 billion, which is net of the $682 million prepayment we made on the previously-settled retailers' litigation but before the $2 billion spent on the CyberSource acquisition.

That includes -- concludes my comments, so I'll turn the call back over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS: Thanks, Byron. In summary I want to underscore my confidence in Visa's future and our ability to drive continued growth, both in the United States and internationally. Visa remains at the forefront of this highly-competitive, dynamic industry after more than 50 years in the business because we have a track record of innovating, adapting and successfully navigating challenges, and we will continue to take concrete steps to achieve our strategic objectives and secure our long-term growth to the benefit of Visa's shareholders and clients. This past quarter was a great example of executing on those goals.

With that, I'll open the floor to questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Our first question comes from Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, guys. Hey, real quickly, looking at both the gross revenue yield and the net revenue yield in your model seeing some pretty decent upticks there. Taking some of the commentary about the higher rebates and thinking about some of the puts and takes in pricing as we think about the forward quarters, can you talk specifically about the pricing levers that you guys would have left in the forward quarters as we roll into fiscal 2011, both in the US versus the rest of the world, please?

BYRON POLLITT: Julio, Byron. So, we're just going to respond to the pricing opportunities pretty much what we have said before that we have, behind us most of the mark-to-market opportunities, which were more domestic in nature going forward. More of the opportunity that we have, first of all, more modest. Second, it is much more outside the United States, so much more of a rest of world opportunity. We're still in the process of standardizing practices, so opportunities still remain. Then, of course, with the unfolding legislation that we have in the United States, once the legislation is clarified then that'll give us an opportunity to relook at the services that we provide that deliver value and look for opportunities to reprice consistent with the strategies that we will be pursuing in the new environment going forward.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Bob Napoli, Piper Jaffray. Your line is open.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, PIPER JAFRAY: Thank you, good afternoon. Joe, the payment system is somewhat of a mess, I guess. If you look at the changes, some of the big ones, banks less than $10 billion are excluded from the bill, prepaid cards are excluded, you have the debit exclusivity. How -- as you look at some of those challenges and managing that system, do you think it is -- how do you think that will work? Is it too early to tell? Do you think it is feasible to -- that the smaller banks get excluded in practice? And what are your thoughts around how banks will respond with prepaid cards?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, look, the answer is that I can't specifically answer that question until I get a little bit more clarity in the rule making process from the feds. Now, we'll, as I mentioned, be a positive part of that, but until that happens it's a little difficult to ascertain. Now, we maintained through the process that having a dual price structure would be difficult, if not impossible, and nothing has happened that particularly changes my mind about that. The solution to the issue does not lie with Visa alone; it lies with several different parties in the chain, as you know, and so it's not totally in our control. We will, of course, do everything in our power to adhere to the law of the land, and we're just going to have to see what kind of effort that takes and how other people respond to the same challenge.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from David, Buckingham Research Group. Your line is open.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST`, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Joe, I wondered, can you give us a sense of how much account -- customer account conversions might have contributed to the debit growth in the US and process transactions that are meaningful? Then wondered -- because Senator Durbin's got some new credit card interchange proposal relating to government cards. I wonder if you have any color on that?

BYRON POLLITT: On the first part, the conversions did contribute but very, very modestly, not material. And on the second part of the question, the government?

JOE SAUNDERS: Oh, as it relates to the proposal that Durbin just made, it has -- it would have very little effect on interchange in total. I mean it's de minimus.

OPERATOR: the next question comes from Greg Smith, Duncan Williams. Your line is open.

GREG SMITH, ANALYST, DUNCAN WILLIAMS: Yes, hi. You guys made some changes with regards to the dynamic currency conversion outside the US. Just wondering can you give us an update there and is that signal maybe a future additional revenue opportunity for Visa?

JOE SAUNDERS: We have rules in place that govern direct currency conversion. We have some of the globe operating under those rules, some of them have been grandfathered based on practices that existed before Visa merged, and so what we have done is put a moratorium on direct currency conversion while we study this situation. And so in the months to come expect to hear more from us on this subject.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan. Your line is open.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, thanks so much. I thought I'd maybe ask about share repurchases, just your appetite, Joe, to buy back stock given what's going on. I guess as a follow up, how much freedom do you have to do something like the $500 million synthetic repurchase that you guys just did?

JOE SAUNDERS: I'm going to turn that over to Byron. There is an authorization existing.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, so the appetite remains, so I'll just use this as an opportunity to once again reaffirm that management's intent to return excess cash to shareholders in the form of both dividends and repurchases of the outstanding authorizations that we have today. We have $336 million unutilized and we will be looking for opportunistic moments over the next several months to use that authorization. And then, of course, we are never hesitant at future board meetings to ask for additional authorization.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Adam Frisch, Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

ADAM FRISCH, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good afternoon. The next 12-to-18 months is a more uncertain landscape than when you reported your March quarter and I just wanted to ask two questions about that uncertainty, whether it be legislative or macro related. One, has it impacted your plans, at all, to invest capital in the growth initiatives you discussed at your analyst day? Have any of those plans been altered? And two, Joe, you reiterated your 20% EPS growth for next year, have you incorporated additional scenarios and contingency planning and so forth and how firm is that guide?

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't think that -- at this time, I don't have any reason to back off anything we talked about at our March investor day. We're moving forward with all of those strategic notions. And as it relates to reaffirming the guidance, we're reaffirming the guidance. I think that that speaks for itself and we didn't do it without thinking about it. We didn't do it without looking at what was going on in the economy. We didn't do it without understanding what was happening legislatively. We didn't -- we just didn't do it without being cautious and prudent and thoughtful and so we're confident that we'll deliver.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Jim Kissane, Banc of America. Your line is open.

JIM KISSANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Thanks. Joe, can you give us a little more color on the DOJ situation. That came across pretty confident. I know it's legalese, but is it a surcharge issue, a credit interchange issue, just maybe big picture color? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, there isn't an interchange issue with it -- there is not an interchange issue with the DOJ. The primary issue is their concern over surcharging and it's on -- it relates to credit cards. This is a dialogue that we've had with them for a lengthy period of time. The current conversations are dovetailing with the litigation conversations that we're in the midst of. So, I don't -- I think this is just part of the same fabric and I think that things are moving in a direction that we have anticipated and so we're not unhappy with where we are.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein. Your line is open.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, guys. Not that you want to talk anymore about the Durbin Amendment, but if multiple [tenant] debit brands are required on all US debit cards and there are no restrictions on merchants routing, do you think your Interlink business could lose some share or experience some pricing pressure? And then I guess the part B to that, have you changed anything in your customer engagement strategies in light of the Durbin Amendment?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, you made some specific statements as to what the implications of the amendment are and I'm not as certain as you are about how those are going to manifest themselves. And we've already had -- we've, of course, had dialogue with our clients, we've had an initial dialogue with the fed. We've continued to pursue it congressionally as it relates to intent. We've looked at who we are, we look at what we do, we look at what value we bring and we have a number of different ways to react to the situation that you're referring to. And I think that when everything is said and done and all of the smoke has cleared that we will continue to do well. What that specifically means, I can't speak to right now. And as it specifically relates to Interlink, it may or may not affect Interlink per se but that's just part of our business. We have a pin debit business and a signature debit business and maybe there's less distinction between the two, maybe there isn't. I think we'll have to wait and see, but either way, we're prepared.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Jason Kupferberg, UBS. Your line is open.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, guys. I was hoping you could compare for us your conviction level, if you will, now versus quarter ago, just in terms of this volume recovery in your business being sustainable and not just mostly a function of easy year-over-year comps. I think you've made it clear on the cross-border side that you think it's more than pent-up demand but putting cross-border aside, we'd just love to get a qualitative sense of how you're leaning now versus a quarter ago in terms of sustainability?

BYRON POLLITT: So, let me take that one, Jason. Let me share a few more granular numbers to give a little bit of perspective. I would say overall, our view is that we are in recovery. What we're seeing on balance suggests maybe a lower probability of a double dip than what we might have suspected a quarter ago, but we also believe that the recovery is going to be protracted. When you look at it on a month-by-month basis, the numbers are certainly good given the prior-year comps, but you're going to have some bumps along the way and hence, the notion of a recovery without turbulence doesn't -- our guess is it's not in the cards.

Let me give you a quick snapshot of what we saw the last several months for the US. This is all-in payment volume. So, the month of -- let's start with March. March payment volume increased 16%, then went to 15% in April, then it went to 15% in May, then it dropped to 12% in June -- still a good number, but a little turbulent -- and July, through the 21 of July, it is positive 13%. So, all suggesting recovery, but whether it will be consistently upwards sustaining and accelerating, hard to call .

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Craig Maurer, CLSA. Your line is open.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA: Yes, good evening. Regarding your marketing budget you've guided to under $1 billion, the number hasn't strayed that far from there over the last few years. I was wondering if you view that number as enough to sustain you going forward and you probably just move marketing regionally as you have to but that the $1 billion number seems like a reasonable target going forward?

BYRON POLLITT: So, let me offer the initial response. We will look to give you an update on annual guidance going forward at the next earnings call. That's our custom to guide at the beginning of the year. It has been around $1 billion for the last couple of years. And in light of the unfolding recovery in the economy, where we stand in the environment, hopefully clarified by then in the US, we'll take a very hard look at where the marketing dollars yield the most return and then on a bottoms-up basis come to a total and give you some reference points at the next earnings call.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Don Fandetti, Citigroup. Your line is open.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good evening. Joe, certainly understandable that it's going to be some time before you can really assess the risk around (inaudible) and debit, but is there any scenario -- are we talking about just a risk to growth rates, or is there a scenario where you could have to reduce your fees to the banks? And are you feeling any pressure from the banks as they look at their different (inaudible) scenario?

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't think that there's any pressure that we're feeling right now that we haven't been feeling for quite some time. I think we've been in a competitive environment for awhile. This probably exacerbates it to a certain extent. I obviously can't get into talking about any of our contracts specifically. I think that we have thoughtfully taken our relationship with our clients into consideration in giving you our current guidance and beyond that there isn't much I can say. Look, there are different things that can happen as a result of the Financial Services Act and we'll have to see what that means.

I really don't believe in my heart of hearts that it's going to stop the electronic payments from growing in the United States, and I really believe that Visa will be a significant part of that in the future as we are now. What that means, what form that takes, what -- how that changes our business model is not -- I'm just not able to specify that at this particular point in time, but you should take some confidence in knowing that we are paying attention. I'm not just sitting on our hands waiting for something to happen. We are aware of the different directions that things can go and we are aware that different things will come into play. But to specify that publicly right now is just not possible.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Tom McCroghan with Janney. Your line is open.

TOM MCCROHAN, ANALYST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT: Just two quick questions on the growth in payment transactions. They grew $1 billion sequentially, primarily due to the US debit cards. If not new clients converting, such as WaMu, what drove the really strong sequential growth in US debit cards?

JOE SAUNDERS: Some of it was WaMu. Some of it was WaMu and some of it was -- we did have some conversions and if I'm -- I think that Chase started putting out Visa cards last July and started their conversions in January and the conversions are still going on and will go on through the end of the year.

OPERATOR: The next question --

BYRON POLLITT: I would just add to that in addition to the conversions, we are seeing a build in recovery. These are -- remember, we are comping off of a pretty low volume last year that -- relatively. We had, actually, negative payment volume growth last year, so we are ramping up. And then, in addition to that, you have your conversions that are contributing to that. So, it is an underlying resurgence in the business, consumer spend within tha, and then on top of that you have an extra increment associated with the wins that we've experienced and convergence.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Chris Brendler, Stifel Nicolaus. Your line is open.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Hi, thanks, good afternoon. Lots of questions on Durbin, I have one, as well. The one area I can't put my hands around and I'm hoping you could give me some color commentary since you've been in the business so long is the prospect of merchant discounting. Is that a significant risk? It seems like that could be a pretty big impact on payment volumes if discounting for cash or pin debit becomes a big part of US payment system. Do you have any color you can provide on just how big that risk is? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: We've allowed discounting for a number of years. The definition of how someone can discount has been modestly expanded but, frankly, we've never looked at that as a significant risk.We've always been okay with the notion of discounting. We've had a little bit more trepidation as it relates to surcharging, but not discounting.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Tim Willi, Wells Fargo. Your line is open.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Thank you and good afternoon. Question about CyberSource and maybe the longer-term implications of the mobile and eCommerce world. Is there anything that -- in that business model or as you envision those markets developing, both domestically and overseas, that would have any kind of secular shift on the revenue yield in terms of purchase volume or revenue per transaction, again, as you advance that strategy, which I think you said CyberSource is pretty critical to?

JOE SAUNDERS: We have not looked at it so much from the yield side as just the raw revenue -- the secular revenue opportunity and you particularly singled out mobile as opposed to the eCommerce space, which is one of the -- if not our fastest-growing source of transactions, many of which are cross-border. So, from that standpoint, on the transaction basis to the extent that there is a disproportionate number of cross-border transactions within the eCommerce space that we're seeking, yes, the yields could be significantly higher. But you focused specifically on mobile and in our view there are going to be, particularly in the developing and emerging countries where a US-type infrastructure is simply not in the cards, there is a significant opportunity for mobile to be the plastic of the emerging and developing world. India, it is why we're so focused on building out our business in India because mobile is such a good match with the infrastructure that it will be cost-effective for that enormous country.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Andrew Jeffrey, SunTrust. Your line is open.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Thanks, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Byron, could you put a little bit of an order of magnitude around compression in the data processing field in the fourth quarter? And then also, a little bit of a decline in the service fee yield this quarter? That's been on-going. Could you comment just on what's going on there?

BYRON POLLITT: So, let me talk about the data processing first. The biggest dynamic as you transition from three to four in terms of quarters is that we've lapped the pricing action that we took last year. That's by far and away the single largest dynamic. And from a modeling perspective, the way you might think about the data -- looking at data processing, as I described in my opening remarks, is that if you began with the underlying transaction growth, Visa-processed transactions are the primary driver of data processing. And then what we -- basically what we're saying is that as volume is building, a lot of that volume is going to clients that are already in our lowest-pricing tier or we're putting more of the volume in lower-pricing tiers and that is -- that's a natural outgrowth of the -- of a healthy growth in the business and what happens when you have increasing economies of scale. We share that with our clients. And so, that's basically the dynamic on the data processing side.

On service fees, this is much more -- it's a much more complicated dynamic. I wouldn't read too much into month-to-month shift and so, hard to comment surgically on that. I would just say there's no material call-out today on service fee trending.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from David Parker, Lazard Capital Markets. Your line is open.

DAVID PARKER, ANALYST, LAZARD CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you, good afternoon. During the quarter you released a new eCommerce product, payclick, in Australia that stacks up better with PayPal than Right Click did. Can you just comment on your strategy with that product and how you might use the CyberSource acquisition to get closer to the merchant and penetrate that channel? Thanks .

BYRON POLLITT: On payclick, literally in June we just launched a pilot and as you pointed out, that was done in Australia so it is very, very early days in that. We'll have much more to talk about that going forward, but early days on that pilot just underway. Stay tuned.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW. Your line is open.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KBW: Thank you. I just have a quick question on pricing changes. I seem to recall there was a pricing change that would kick in July. One, I wanted to make sure that was the case and, two, just wanted to make sure that was incorporated into the revenue guidance? Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: The answer is -- it was a -- there was a price increase -- a pricing action that took effect in July but because of the quarter lag in our reporting of service fees, that won't actually show up until the first fiscal quarter of next year. Yes, and on the second part of your question, it is incorporated in the guidance that we have given for fiscal-year 2011.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Chris Mammone, Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

CHRIS MAMMONE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, good afternoon. I guess the one area on revenues that missed the market as far as where we were modeling with International transaction fees, especially given the easy comp of last year, but anything to call out there? And then as a follow up, just on the incentive line, was there any recurring themes on why a lot of the deals got pushed out beyond the third quarter and what are the chances that you don't get some of those not until fiscal 2011? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: No call-out on the international. It is somewhat impacted by currency, but basically we just outperformed during the quarter and this has been a significant upside for us during the year. Just to give you all a little color, in April -- month of April, in constant dollars cross-border volume was up 15%; May, 19%; June, 18%; July through the first 21 days, 18%, and that compares to the first month of the fiscal year when cross-border was zero. So, this has been a very good story for us through the course of the year.

With regards to timing of contracts, this is always hard. It's just hard to pick the corner and so nothing to read into this other than the pace has probably slowed a bit because of -- with our US banks, given the dramatic attention that Washington has demanded over the last two quarters. Other than that, I would say nothing in particular to read in it.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Bruce Harting, Barclays Capital. Your line is open.

BRUCE HARTING, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I'd be curious -- it's hard to differentiate over these last few months of underperformance between fears of double dip, or the things that have happened in the legislation, but I would just be curious. Your view on the feedback you get, what is weighing more heavily on the stock? Is it implications from the Durbin Amendment or just fears of a double dip. But, Joe, your comment that Durbin won't impact until this time next year, so, therefore, might have impact on fourth quarter next year. Thus, 20% EPS growth is still in place is very reassuring [in your] guidance today which, thank you. But in the past the precedent of Australia suggested there wouldn't be an impact on Visa.

So, I'm just wondering are you implying that there may be an im -- that there -- is that a change in the view from Australia that the Durbin Amendment may, indeed, impact you and is it too simplistic to simply divide per -- to get to per card debit spend. I get about $2,500 if I just take total cards by annual debit spend. Couldn't the banks simply -- that's about $20, $25 a year of income at a 1% average debit fee. Couldn't the banks simply replace that with some other form of fee in their bundled checking account structure and recoup what they lose in debit interchange? So another reason I'm wondering why you -- it seems like you might suggest post-2011 there could be an impact on the fees you receive?

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't know that I indicated that I thought that there was going to be an impact one way or the other, I just said that I have clarity as it relates to where we are for the last quarter of this year and next year. I also said I wasn't sure of all of the implications and I wasn't sure of exactly how we would position ourselves in response to some of the implications. But if I indicated to you that I thought there was a storm on the horizon, I didn't mean to. I just -- I'm just not going beyond 2011 at this particular juncture.

As it relates to your question about our stock, you guys have more to say about that than I do. You tell me what happened. I don't -- that's not my job. My job is to tell you who we are, how we're performing and how we see our performance in the future and that's what we're doing.

JACK CARSKY: Jose, at this point, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: The last question does come from Jamie Friedman, Susquehanna. Your line is open.

JAMIE FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: Hi, thank you for taking my question. So, just as we tune the model, Byron, the personal ex -- personnel expenses were somewhat lower than what we had modeled, but the professional consulting fees were higher. I realize that you said the professional consulting fees were related to CyberSource. Will those sunset as we move into fiscal 2011 and is the reduction in personnel expenses sustainable?

BYRON POLLITT: So, with regards to CyberSource, we had some impact in pro fees in the third quarter. We will have much more in the fourth because we close out the transaction during that quarter and so most of the direct CyberSource cost at -- that are specifically deal related will, hit in the fourth and of course, will not reoccur. We could easily have some integration cost that will stretch over into the early part of fiscal-year 2011, but the CyberSource piece pretty much goes away at the end of this quarter. Personnel, we will -- we're not going to talk about that specifically but what we will do on the next earnings call is give you a sense as to where we see revenue growth and where we see margins -- operating margins, which will encompass personnel and don't be surprised if we have a word or two on marketing.

JACK CARSKY: Well, that concludes the call. Thank you, everybody, for joining us here today. If anybody has any follow-up questions, please feel free to call either Victoria or myself. Thanks again.

OPERATOR: thank you for your participation in today's conference call. The call has concluded, you may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i8150107 : Debit Cards | i8150108 : Credit Cards | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100811e67s003el
  


 HD
 Q2  2010  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,588 words
   PD
28 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa, Inc.'s fiscal second quarter 2010 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

   TD
JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thank you, Jose. Good afternoon, and welcome to Visa, Inc.'s fiscal second quarter 2010 earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast over the Internet. It can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning these factors is available in the Company's filings with the SEC, which can be accessed through the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of the Visa website. For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal second quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the IR section of our website. With that, I'll turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Jack, and thank you all for joining us for the second consecutive week. As we conclude the first half of our fiscal 2010, I'm increasingly optimistic that the worst of the recession is behind us as we are finally beginning to see evidence of a pickup in spending domestically and internationally. This was apparent in the results of our fiscal second quarter as strong year-over-year payments volume and revenue gains were delivered in every area of our business. However, while we are increasingly more comfortable with the economic environment in which we are operating, we remain watchful of the longer term sustainability of growth in the world economy.

Earnings for our second fiscal quarter on a GAAP basis were $0.96 per diluted share, a $0.25, or 35% increase over the second quarter of 2009. Net income on a GAAP basis was $713 million, a 33% increase over the year-ago period. Net operating revenues in the quarter were just under $2 billion, a 19% increase over the year-ago period as a result of stronger than anticipated payments volume, cross-border volume and process transaction growth coming from all areas of the globe. Byron will get into the details, but overall, we are very pleased with our results and we remain cautiously optimistic that we will continue to see solid trends going forward.

Process transaction growth continued to accelerate over the quarter ending the period at 14% on a year-over-year basis with over 10.6 billion transactions processed over VisaNet. This is up from the 12% growth rate we experienced last quarter, and well ahead of the same period a year ago when process transactions grew 6%. With these trends, we are increasingly optimistic that our net revenue growth will now come in at the high end of our 11% to 15% range. While we delivered 16% growth year-to-date, keep in mind that we lap last year's data processing price increase at the end of the June quarter. In addition, consistent with our annual plan and guidance, we are projecting modestly higher rebates and incentives in the back half of the year. Byron will provide greater detail on this.

As you know, last week we announced an agreement to acquire CyberSource. It is a strong fit with our long-term strategic view of eCommerce and is complemented by its ability to deliver incremental benefits to our financial institution, customers and their cardholders. While we would be happy to entertain any outstanding questions you may have at the end of this call, please keep in mind that because CyberSource shareholder approval is still pending, we will not be able to go into any more detail on the transaction than we did last week. I would refer you back to the presentation and transcript of our comments from the conference call. Additional information regarding the transaction will be available in the forthcoming registration statement form, S4, which will be filed with the SEC in due course.

All in all, we continue to execute well against our business plan. Our management team remains very focused on further expanding our payments network globally. By growing issuance and acceptance locations, by expanding our processing capabilities, by adapting our products and services to fit the needs of individual markets and by driving transactions with effective market programs. As we navigate through the current economic environment, we are generating solid earnings results and will continue to focus on returning excess cash flow to our shareholders. While we temporarily curtailed our previously announced share buyback earlier in the second quarter, it is our intention to resume share repurchases this fiscal year as conditions warrant. With that, let me turn the call over to Byron, who will take you through the details of our financial results, and then I'll be back to wrap up.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. As is customary, let me begin with the financial highlights for our fiscal second quarter and then comment on the global payment volume trends for the current quarter followed by transaction results for April. As Joe already mentioned, it was a very strong quarter with better than anticipated revenue growth. Global payment volume growth for the December quarter in constant dollars rose from a positive 3% in the September quarter to 8%. In the US, payment volume growth was a positive 7% in the December quarter, up from a negative 1% in the September quarter. Debit continued to prove both its resiliency as a product and its secular appeal by delivering a positive 15% growth compared to 7% growth in the September quarter. Credit improved to negative 1% in the December quarter from a negative 9% in the September period. On a constant-dollar basis, rest of world payment volume grew at 10% in the December quarter, a modest improvement over the 8% rate delivered in the September quarter. These results continue to reflect solid secular growth and a strong and healthy diversified country base outside the US.

Now, turning to the metrics that drive revenue on a current basis. Global cross border volume growth continued to improve in the March quarter posting a positive 12% growth rate on a constant dollar basis from the positive 2% rate in the December period. Transactions processed over Visa's network totalled 10.6 billion in the fiscal second quarter, an increase of 14% over the similar period a year ago and up from 12% growth we saw in the December quarter.

Turning to the income statement. In our fiscal second quarter, growth revenues of $2.3 billion were up 20% from the similar period in 2009. Volume and support incentives as a percentage of gross revenues came in at 16%, up from the prior year's recession influenced level of 15% and in line with our expectations and guidance for fiscal 2010 as payment volume growth improved. Net operating revenues in the quarter were almost $2 billion, a 19% increase over the operating revenues reported for the second fiscal quarter of 2009, driven by better than anticipated global payment volume and transact -- and process transaction growth in debit, in credit and cross-border payments.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $885 million, up 10% over the prior-year period and reflective of accelerating payment volume growth in the quarter ending December, a trend which continued through the March quarter. Data processing revenue was $728 million, up 34% over the prior year, based on strong process transaction growth of 14% and the continuing effect of previously enacted pricing actions. International transaction revenues were up a solid 22% to $545 million, due to an improvement in cross-border volumes during the volume.

The foreign exchange impact on revenue in the second fiscal quarter was a positive 2% as a result of the weakening dollar against several key currencies. While the balance of this year's revenue forecast is substantially hedged, some quarter to quarter volatility may be exhibited due to the timing of hedges and the underlying volatility of currencies. Overall, for the full fiscal year, we expect the foreign exchange impact on revenue growth to be neutral to slightly positive. Our operating margin was 57%, in line with our guidance of mid to high 50% range. Higher revenues in the period were offset by higher planned marketing and advertising spend in the quarter. We expect a similar dynamic in our fiscal third quarter as we ramp up ahead of the FIFA World Cup.

Total operating expenses for the second quarter were $837 million, representing a year-over-year increase of $71 million, or 9%, driven by anticipated increases and marketing and advertising trend. Our expectation continues to be that expenses on a full-year basis will be relatively flat to the 2009 level on a GAAP basis. Excluding any effect from our pending CyberSource acquisition. On a sequential quarter basis, we saw moderately higher expenses in marketing and advertising as well, given higher spending on the Winter Olympics and upcoming World Cup events. We also saw consolidated personnel expenses as we invest for future growth. Capital expenditures were $42 million in the quarter and $79 million year-to-date representing ongoing investment in technology and our newer initiatives. For fiscal 2010, we expect capital expenditures to be around $200 million.

Moving on to the balance sheet, we ended the first quarter in strong shape -- excuse me -- we ended the second quarter in strong shape with negligible debt and cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and available for sale investments of $6.3 billion. Of this total, $1.6 billion is restricted cash, which represents amounts sufficient to fully pay out the American Express settlement, with $1 billion that is currently uncommitted. The previously-announced unlocking of 50% of the remaining locked up class C shareholders commenced on March 1, and as anticipated, had little discernible effect on our trading activity. As of the end of March, there are a total of 100 million class C shares outstanding, of which 55 million shares remain locked up.

Now, let me comment on March's payment volume data and our early read on April. Then I'll cover our updated financial expectations for the balance of the year. Global payment volume growth for the March quarter in constant dollars rose to 13% from a positive 8% in December. We experienced meaningful growth in every one of our global regions. In the US, payment volume growth was a positive 13% in the March quarter, up from a positive 7% in the December quarter. Debit continued its strong recent trend, delivering a positive 21% growth compared to 15% growth in the December period. Debit currently accounts for 57% of total US payment volume. Credit accelerated a positive 3% growth in the March quarter from a negative 1% in the December period. More recently, through the twenty-first of April, US payment volume grew at 15%, 2 percentage points ahead of the March quarter rate, but 1 point lower than the month of March growth rate of 16%. Further deconstructed, debit grew at 22% while credit grew at 7%.

On a constant-dollar-basis, rest of world payment volume grew at 14% in the March quarter, up from a 10% rate in the December quarter. These results recognize continued secular growth and a strong and healthy diversified country base outside the US. Global, cross-border volume growth accelerated considerably in the March quarter, posting a 12% growth rate on a constant dollar basis from the positive 2% rate in the December period. Growth in the month of March was an unexpectedly strong 16%. In contrast to our view a quarter ago, this trend appears to be more representative of a broader cyclical trend rather than just pent-up demand. April cross-border volume growth on a constant basis sustained the strong growth rate we saw in March, posting a 17% rate of growth through the twenty-first of the month. Process transactions through the twenty-first grew at 15% over the prior-year period, up slightly from the 14% growth posted for the second fiscal quarter, but down a point from the 16% growth rate delivered in the month of March.

Now let me comment on our expectations for the remainder of the fiscal year for operating performance and the resulting impact on our full-year guidance. As Joe mentioned, given our year-to-date results, we are now comfortable with a net revenue growth target at the high end of the 11% to 15% range. Despite our year-to-date growth of 16%, we anticipate a couple of dynamics over the back half of the year. First, the data processing pricing action we took in April of 2009 will lap in our June quarter, making year-over-year growth comparisons in this line item less favorable in the fourth quarter. Second, consistent with our guidance, we expect rebate and incentive costs to increase moderately in the second half due to higher earn out rates tied to the higher volumes we're experiencing. Remember, as discussed at our investor day, the level of incentives tied to payment volume growth declined in fiscal year 2009 due to economic conditions. Consistent with our internal operating plan and our guidance, the level and incentives earned will naturally rise with volume in 2010, with the financial impact weighted more to the second half of the fiscal year.

In addition, we also anticipate signing several new deals, some as soon as the third quarter, which may have up-front payments that are directly expensed rather than amortized, resulting in some lumpiness to our quarter-to-quarter incentive levels. That said, consistent with our Q1 guidance, we are still comfortable with full-year rebates and incentives as a percentage of gross revenue in the range of 16% to 17%, potentially at the higher end. Our expectation for our full year 2010 operating margin remains in the mid to high 50s. As exhibited this quarter, increased marketing and advertising expenses, as well as further investments in our newer initiatives, offset the higher margin we reported in our first fiscal quarter. We expect similar dynamics in our fiscal third and fourth quarters. We expect our full fiscal year 2010 tax rate to be in the range of 36.5% to 38.5%. We continue to target better than 20% earnings per share growth in 2010 on a GAAP basis, excluding the VisaNet Brazil gain and a 2011 earnings per share growth goal of better than 20%. We expect capital expenditures to be around $200 million and lastly, our projection for free cash flow for the year remains north of $2 billion, which is net of the $682 million prepayment we made last quarter on the previously-settled retailers litigation. That concludes my comments, so I'll turn the call back to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS: Thanks, Byron. In closing, let me say, it has certainly been a very busy and exciting time at Visa. We are fortunate to sit at the center of a dynamic and highly competitive industry. Not only are more consumers turning their backs on cashing checks, but more governments and businesses are embracing the speed, security and reliability of Visa digital currency in every part of the world. Inevitably, along with our success comes increased competition from companies large and small, both within and outside of the United States. However, as we have done in the past, we will continue to challenge ourselves to innovate and adapt to the ever-changing competitive landscape. Importantly, we are taking concrete steps to achieve our strategic objectives and secure our long-term growth to the benefit of Visa's shareholders and clients. We are also continuing to build our management team with key hires to lead and operationalize our activities in mobile and eCommerce. But even as we look to the future, we continue to focus on the tremendous opportunities in our core business. The ongoing migration to digital currency from cash and checks.

By way of example, at the end of calendar year 2009, the number of Visa, debit and prepaid cards issued globally surpassed 1 billion for the first time in our history. This represents not only further penetration of debit globally, but the underlying growth and importance of prepaid cards, which are key contributor of all of our debit business overall. And in the coming weeks, we will increase our marketing activation around our FIFA sponsorship -- excuse me -- around our FIFA sponsorship in advance of this summer's World Cup. The majority of these marketing investments will be focused on increasing awareness of the benefits of debit and premium credit products with the goal of driving every day and cross-border transactions. Particular emphasis will be given to markets with strong growth potential and a passion for soccer. With this, we are ready to take any questions.

OPERATOR: Certainly. (Operator Instructions) To be sure all questioners are heard, we ask you please limit yourself to one question. (Operator Instructions) One moment for our first question. The first question comes from Adam Frisch, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM FRISCH, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good afternoon, guys. Really solid and straightforward quarter, so I guess I'll focus on emerging markets and CyberSource is kind of off the table for now. Turning to of the Brazil, two of the larger banks announced a JV this week. Certainly can be seen as a threat to you, but our industry contacts suggests they're going after the private label market but not your core offerings. So any color you can provide there would be great, and an update in other initiatives like India and Russia would also be appreciated. If you could focus on the support you are getting from the big banks and government entities in these markets, that would be really helpful. Thanks.

JACK CARSKY: Well, as it relates to Brazil, there is not much to report beyond what you just said. Every indication that we have from any conversations we have had with individuals at those institutions would suggest exactly what you said, Adam. So we don't look at this as being threatening to us, certainly in the near-term.

JOE SAUNDERS: Is it relates to Russia, we're working well with the government and with Share Bank which is, as you know, one of the -- well, the largest institution, as well as other banks. As a matter of fact, we signed an agreement with Share Bank -- well I signed an agreement with Share Bank while we were at the Olympics, and it covered an agreement on how we were going to operate cooperatively at the Winter Olympics in Russia. Share Bank, who has actually traditionally been more of a Master Card bank than a Visa bank, is fully committed to issuing only Visa cards from now through the Winter Olympics. And I have nothing new to report on India other than what we've reported up to now.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from David Hochstim, Buckingham Research.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Following up on that answer to Adam's question, is Share Bank just only issuing new Visa cards, or are they going to convert from MasterCard to Visa? And then my real question was, can you give us some color on what you see in the way of cross-border and spending improvement? And then, have you seen evidence in this last quarter of a pickup in discretionary spending in credit card? Is there faster growth in signature cards than in other credit cards?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I'll answer the first part of the question, which is the simple part. The answer is I don't believe that they're converting anything that they have. I was speaking primarily of new issuance, although that is over a multi-year period of time. I don't know that they'll issue zero Master Card cards, but their principal partner by far.

JACK CARSKY: What we can say on cross-border is that we are seeing just strong cross-border gains throughout the globe. If we were to look at cross-border for the second quarter for Visa transactions, while it was in constant dollars, the category was up 12%. 11% in the US, 12% rest of world. So it's a broad-based recovery on cross-border. And then what we -- with regards to discretionary versus non-discretionary, the mix for us -- for the quarter just ended in the US, which is what we have real-time visibility to, the mix is now a couple of percentage points higher for non-discretionary. So in the spirit of your question, we would say that the pickup is still very much debit, very much non-discretionary, but with credit starting to show signs of life. But even within our credit portfolio, we're finding that the mix of non-discretionary is continuing to rise. Modestly, but continuing to rise.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Rod Bourgeois, Bernstein.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Yes guys, it sounds like you're poised to win some new accounts. Can you give us any profile information on the types of wins you're expecting in terms of size or geography? And if you can comment on the basis for how you're winning these deals. And then also related to that, Brian, since you have some unamortizable expenses attached to these wins, should we expect this to be more of a new and common trend in terms of how you deal with the up-front expenses on new wins? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: So let me give you some perspective on that. When we guide at the beginning of the year -- by the way, let me first say that what is unfolding this year is very consistent with how we planned the year and how we guided to it. And we have a -- every year, we have a natural deal pipeline, a natural flow of deals.

What's hard to predict is when those deals will actually renew or come to conclusion. And it's when you actually have a signed agreement that you can then trigger the accounting, and so there is no particular call out on wins, losses, renewals here. This is -- for fiscal year 2010, this is just how the deal pipeline fell, and as a result, we're more second-half weighted in the incentives than we would book in the first half. And you'll notice that we are still affirming that the level of incentives for the year are within the guidance we gave at the Q1 earnings call.

With regard to the amortized or expense, again, I would say that there is no call-out here. That we anticipated a certain amount of those incentives being expensed and what we are reporting, although second half weighted, is still very much consistent with the way we thought the year would unfold.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, just in that same vein following up, could you talk about what -- perhaps what percentage of the annual revenues in those contracts might be, those incentives might comprise? Because it would seem that that should imply that fiscal 2011 should have some benefits relative to this year.

BYRON POLLITT: We don't guide or talk about the first part of your question. We don't break that part out in any detail. But the second -- but the conclusion you're drawing is fair, that -- and I think there are two phenomena here. And, frankly, it is a bit -- it has something to do with the deal flow, but, frankly, it's more about the earn outs. Fiscal 2009 was a depressed, a non-normalized depressed incentive year because portfolios did not grow substantively during that year. Many of them didn't grow at all. And so what you have in 2010 is the beginning of a return to a more normalized incentive level. You have growth in the portfolios.

You'll notice we're now reporting year-over-year positive growth in the credit portfolios, not just the debit portfolios. And then -- and so what is happening is, you're starting to earn a level of incentives and get back to a more normalized level, which then resets the base in fiscal year 2010 and hence, you would expect, everything else being equal, a more moderated level of incentives in the year that follows, a more moderated level of growth and incentives for 2011.

JOE SAUNDERS: I think I would add, that as it relates to the number of transactions that we've consummated over the last two years, it has partially been a result of the economy and the consolidation of the banking industry, and I think we're pretty much at the tail end of that right now. So I'm not sure that you'll see as many deals in 2011 as you have in the last two years.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from David Long, William Blair.

DAVID LONG, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: Hey, guys. MasterCard is increasing prices from what we hear, on merchant assessments as of April 1. And so my question is, have you guys raised merchant assessment pricing, as well? And then also as a follow-up, is there any other pricing increases that we should be thinking about here for your fiscal third quarter?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, we've already announced an increase in our acquirers' fees similar to the one that MasterCard did, and ours is effective in July. But because of the way that we book, our service fees won't show up in our revenues until our first fiscal quarter, which would be the October quarter. quarter.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, thanks. I wanted to ask about the cross border, which was stronger than we expected. The difference between the 22% in cross-border revenue versus the 19% reported volume, Byron, is the delta there pricing, or did mix contribute to the spread widening out there? Do you follow my question?

BYRON POLLITT: The -- we don't hedge volumes, but we hedge revenue. And so I think there's no real call-out here with regards to the international. It's tracking pretty close, but it will always have several data -- it would not be unusual to have several points of difference plus or minus.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Jason Kupferberg, UBS.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, good afternoon, guys. I just wanted to follow up at a comment you had made at analysts meeting about seeing a narrowing of the traditional gap between pin and sig debit interchange rates. Can you give us update on what the impetus is for this movement ,and does it also apply to your network fees, or is it really just on the interchange side? And is the goal here to more or less to keep the average interchange rate about the same just by tweaking pin up and sig debit down?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, there are parts of that question that I can answer and parts of it that I can't. And parts of it that I shouldn't. But I -- but what I would say to you is that I don't think the trend from signature to pin is any much different than it's been for quite a while. And while the pin volume has grown, so has the signature volume. And the signature volume is considerably more than the pin volume. It is always been a fact that a merchant of pin use pin to any extent that we want. If a merchant wants to put terminals in -- pin terminals in, then they're more than welcome to do so. So what's going on isn't, in my opinion, or from what we can see, much different than what's been going on for quite some time. By the way, which means that it isn't narrowing anywhere near as rapidly as your question would suggest.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Chris Mammone, Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS MAMMONE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. I have a similar question to Tien-Tsin's. Could you go into more color on the service fee revenue growth? It looks like growth in service fees lagged your payment volume growth, which is a reversal of the trend, at least in the past four quarters.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to service fees, again, I would -- I think what we report is on service fees on volume is unhedged, so it is a gross number, nominal unhedged. When you -- when we reported in our financial statements it is hedged, and so there is always going to be a delta with regards to that. Now, having said that, there will be -- I wouldn't get overly concerned about an individual quarter. We ought to be looking at it over several quarters, because there will be ins and outs for the quarter. And having said all of that, there is always a degree of variance that will occur simply because there is a difference in mix. We have one level of service fee yield in the United States, which is where most of the -- it is the single largest source of service fees.

As you move outside the United States, we have very different mix profiles. So it actually does matter from which geographies the stronger growth rates are coming, because if yield is higher in the faster-growing, then we will have, everything else being equal, we'll have service fee revenues growing faster than payment volume. But if it is coming from areas that have lower yields on service fees, then we will have the opposite. And then, of course, there is a difference between the mix between credit and debit. Credit carries on balance higher service fee yields than debit. And then within debit, signature carries a different service fee yield than pin signature debit than pin debit. So in short, there are quite a few factors that go into the actual translation of payment volume into revenue, and what you see is the outcome of all of those in a given quarter. All in all, we feel it is a pretty healthy growth rate, and it is growing at a rate that is, frankly, somewhat above our expectations at the beginning of the year.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hey, Byron. Can I stay on that same point, just to add another quick question about the delta on that card services fees? How much of that, if any, is attributable to tiering? In other words, people moving, volumes coming back faster and some of the tiered pricing you would see, maybe even a merchant mix situation. Trying to get a sense if there is something that that could also be another factor to contemplate in the delta there?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, I think the answer I gave earlier, Julio, there are a multitude of factors. I would say that the factor you just described has very little to do with the calculation. The added concentration of payment volume would be much more a driver than tiering.

JOE SAUNDERS: I think the short answer to everything that Byron has said, is that nothing has essentially changed in the way that we do business or the way that we generate revenue or what our yields are. I think there will be some anomalies on a quarter-to-quarter basis, but as he said earlier, look at the year, look at several quarters and you are not going to see any significant change. So there is nothing going on that we're aware of, and we've looked at it pretty carefully, that is significantly changing or that you'll have to think of as being different than it has been in the past.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Sanjay Sakharani, KBW.

SANJAY SAKHARANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Byron, I was wondering if you'd talk about that personnel line. You mentioned some reinvestment there, and I was wondering how we should think about it in ongoing basis. And maybe if you could split out investment spend portion versus the core number there. The then second question was, just to your comments that the rebound in volume seems to be related to a broader cyclical trend versus pent up demand. I was wondering if you could talk about the specific items that lead you to believe that that's the case. Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Okay. On the personnel line, I think just keep in mind that we are coming off a year, namely 2009, where it was -- we had a combination of a very uncertain economic environment where it made sense to put a very close watch on expenses. And at the same time, we were completing the rationalization of expenses associated with the merging of the various Visa companies at the time of the IPO. And so at the same time we were then -- as we completed the rationalization, we were then waiting for the right time to really start gearing up and recognizing that we have a lot of secular growth to capture. That means we need people and more people on the ground in countries, calling and servicing clients and that it's time for us to start ramping that up. And so we don't have a specific call out or breakout on the personnel, but the notion here is it's time to start investing in our cost structure to support the growth in revenue and capturing the secular. It's not a heavy investment, because we are basically a -- we're leveraging a -- our platforms. But it is time to start growing that line, which is what you're beginning to see.

With regards to the rebound, we're just remaining cautious on this front. There are very mixed views from an economic standpoint as to whether or not what we're seeing in today's economy, even globally, is supported by strong fundamentals. But there is no denying, as I referenced on the cross-border transactions, that this -- we are in an environment where the world is traveling again. I say the world, we don't have Europe, but it seems everyone else is traveling. And we're starting to see a return of growth to in the credit portfolios, not just the debit. And when we say positive growth in the credit portfolio, that is a global comment. We are seeing positive growth in our portfolios, both debit and credit in the United States and across the globe. Whether that will be sustained or at what level remains to be seen, but these, back in December and January, it was just hard to know whether, particularly on the cross-border front, whether we were seeing pent-up demand. Well, here we are now in March, and we're continuing to see very strong increases year-over-year in cross-border.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Craig Maurer, CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA: Good afternoon. I hate to go back to Chris's question, but I just want to be sure that none of the, " weakness" we saw in the yield, was driven by the JPMorgan and Washington Mutual resignings and possible concessions there. And to follow up, if you can comment on the composition in the rebound in US credit spending. At American Express we saw pretty extraordinary growth rates out of the co-brand portfolio, and I was wondering if you were seeing a similar trend between that and your normal, non co-branded cards.

BYRON POLLITT: As Joe said, on the -- in terms of however you look at it, yield, growth rates, we are not seeing any material change in our yield environment for the yields that have been done over the past year. It's unfolding very consistently with, in terms of a yield standpoint, with how we planned the year. What is proceeding faster is the rate of recovery. Again, I use the word recovery advisedly. But I assure you, we did not expect to be generating 19% revenue growth at this time almost a year ago when we were assembling budgets.

With regards to credit portfolio, I'm afraid our credit growth is being generated by categories that are a little less sexier. It is -- we are start to see, as I mentioned earlier, a pickup on the credit side with regards to non-discretionary spend. So it is fuel, it's discount stores, it's bill-pay, it's grocery stores. But these -- what is encouraging is that these are categories that have -- that are recurring and have a high degree of stability associated with them. I might also add that on the travel front, we are starting to see increases in airline, in the hotel, year-over-year. But what is really driving the gate is the earlier categories I mentioned.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Robert Dodd, Morgan Keegan.

ROBERT DODD, ANALYST, MORGAN KEEGAN: Hi, guys. A bit of a broader question, if I can. On advertising, I mean, I know we've put -- the Winter Olympics and the World Cup this year, we've got the rugby World Cup next year. We have a number, obviously, of premium partners in the sponsorship department. Is it the plan to try and grow that number of sponsors to the high end, or are you happy with where you stand with the particular portfolio relationships you have right now?

JOE SAUNDERS: We actually have reduced the number of sponsorships over the last couple of years, and our primary focus is on the Olympics, FIFA and the NFL. Beyond that, we don't have any significant or major sponsorships that we leverage our advertising against in any substantial way. And nor do we intend to.

OPERATOR: The next question --

JOE SAUNDERS: I would like to go back and just clarify one thing that Byron talked about a little bit earlier, just to make sure that nobody misunderstands. I think that we did see a potentially a low water mark in some of our personal line maybe in the first quarter of this year. But let reiterate that we are an efficient organization, we intend to be an efficient organization. We're simply refocusing resources where they think that they should refocused, and our intention would be to end the year spending less on that line than we did last year. Modestly less, but less, nonetheless.

OPERATOR: The next question does come from Jim Kissane, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch.

JIM KISSANE, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Yes, quick question. Joe, on the signings on the back half, are these renewals or are they mostly new business? And going on to Byron, are the signing bonuses becoming more prevalent, especially the ones that don't have the claw backs? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: No, I don't think so. There is a combination of things that may -- that could come together under -- the funny thing about this is that it would happily come together in -- particularly in the third quarter. But they're not one thing. They're a number of things, and they are in a number of parts of the world. The real answer to the question is, what's going on is that we continue to attract new business and better business and that we continue to excel from a competitive point of view, and it's very, very consistent with our plan and where we want to go and where, fortunately, we seem to be ending up. So I -- it would be wrong to say that everything is something new, but it would be just as wrong to say that a lot of it isn't very new. So that's where we are. But you're not talking about 10% of -- crippling our revenue growth by 10% or something. You're talking about amounts of money that may amount to somewhere between 1.5% or 2%, 2%, 2.5% of our revenue growth in a particular quarter. And that would be a great quarter.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Tim Willi, Wells Fargo.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Thanks, and good afternoon. A question on yield and just tying into maybe your thoughts around pricing where I know you comment every quarter about what you expect there. But could you talk about how you think about, on a multi-year basis, impacting revenue yield by value added product, whether that be around tools that give consumers more security around using the card or accessibility or prompting. Is there anything there to think about around revenue yield outside of price increases that you would highlight?

BYRON POLLITT: I would say at this point, nothing to highlight. It is very clearly an objective over time to introduce more services that only will yield more, but that will differentiate Visa more relative to alternate payment forms. And of course, that is one of the strategic underpinnings of why we were interested in CyberSource, which is a discussion, as you know, for another day. But thank you for asking.

OPERATOR: And the next question comes from Jamie Friedman, Susquehanna.

JAMIE FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP: Hi, good evening. Thanks for taking my question. I want to ask about the prepaid. And Joe, thanks for sharing the $1 billion debit prepaid number. That was helpful. I'm wondering if the growth in prepaid is noticeably different from some of your other products. And if, as we had dialoged at the analysts day, you might contemplate breaking that out over time. How significant is that for the company? Thank you.

JOE SAUNDERS: We've never broken out the absolute significance of it, but I think we've suggested that of the new products that we're involved in, or the new initiatives that we're involved in, this is the most mature, and I think that we would certainly consider breaking it out when we -- as we go into 2011.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Moshe Katri, the Cowen Group.

JACK CARSKY: Or not?

OPERATOR: Moshe, your line might be muted.

MOSHE KATRI, ANALYST, THE COWEN GROUP: Hello? Can you hear me now?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, we can hear you.

MOSHE KATRI: Great, can we get an update on the merchant lawsuit in terms of of some of the pending deadlines? And then maybe looking at the recent volcano eruption and in terms -- can we -- can you give us a feel on whether we should see an impact? Was there an impact on cross-border transaction volumes during the June quarter because of that? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: I'm going to let Byron start off by telling you about the volcano, and then I'll comment.

BYRON POLLITT: Notice how we all refer to it as the volcano eruption as opposed to trying to pronounce the name of the volcano that erupted. What we can say is that for about three days we saw a blip in the force, but it was not a blip of any substantive size. And that the, if I can call it a bounce-back, things seemed to have bounced back very quickly. And so we do not expect to have any call-out in the quarter associated with the volcano eruption at this time. It was an event, but for revenue purposes, I think for us, it is a non-event.

JOE SAUNDERS: As it relates to the litigation, there are motions that are pending. There is no trial date that's been set. There is a mediation that's ongoing, but obviously under those circumstances, I don't have anything else that I can report to you about the litigation at this time.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Bruce Harting, Barclays.

BRUCE HARTING, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Is there anything to read into the 1% slide in the April volume from March? And then, is it just my imagination or are you a little skimpy on the guidance for 2011 relative to this time last year? I don't see any revenue growth guidance or volume in support incentives.

JOE SAUNDERS: Let's just level everything. We talked in -- I talked earlier about the fact that we thought we would see a little bit of pullback in the second half of the year as it related to our revenue growth, due to lapping the pricing increase in the fourth quarter, and due to the lump -- as Byron said, the lumpiness in the incentive line. Having said that, our projections for -- our guidance for the rest of this year and frankly, well, for the rest of this year, are not predicated on a continued rapid ramp-up of volume. I also mentioned earlier in my speaking speaking points that while we're optimistic, I'm not betting on a continued recovery that just goes through the roof. So that kind of sets where we are in 2010.

Obviously, under those circumstances as it relates to 2011, we've talked about the 20 -- better than a 20% growth in our earnings per share, but I'm really reluctant to try to pinpoint things, specifically pinpoint revenue, or some of the other categories until we get a little bit further in the year and I'm a little bit more comfortable with where the economy is and where it's going and where our volume is going. We're poised to do well if the economy does well. You know? Our success, to some extent will follow an economic recovery. We have enjoyed volume increases up to now by expanding categories and moving into new geographies. We will continue to do that. But that would obviously be enhanced by any worldwide economic recovery. Or economic recovery in certain pockets of the world. So we're optimistic, but we're not going to go overboard, and I'm going to continue to be reluctant to predict what's going to happen until I have some more certainty around whether it's going to happen.

BYRON POLLITT: And I would just add to that, that by the time we give 2011 guidance, we would like to be able to include CyberSource into that guidance, assuming the transaction (inaudible) in the fourth fiscal quarter.

JACK CARSKY: Jose, we probably have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: The last question does come from Don Fandetti, Citigroup.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Joe, in terms of the alternative payments and eCommerce, are you where you think you need to be with your pending acquisition at RightClick? And then, how do you stand versus some of the other networks?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think that our recent acquisition is a spoke in the wheel. I think it is one of the things that we had wanted to do and had thought about doing as we were putting our eCommerce strategy and our strategies for growth in the future together. I think we talked about that at investor day. And so what we've just done is consistent with what we talked about. But it is one part of it. It is not, by any stretch of the imagination, the entire answer.

But as it relates to whether I am comfortable at where we need to be, given what we need to do, yes, I am comfortable. Or as comfortable as one can be in a rapidly changing environment. I think Visa has done a good job over the years in doing the research and the heavy lifting and moving that is enabling us to bring products to market today. We at Visa, as a public company, are very fortunate as it relates to some of the things that went on in Visa, the association prior to our IPO. And we're the very fortunate recipients of a lot of a infrastructure and a lot of effort and testing, and tests in the market that are the type of experience that you can't buy, you have to experience. So I think we're prepared, and I'm as confident as ever that we're ready to move forward.

JACK CARSKY: Well, that concludes our call, everybody. Thank you, as always, for joining us today. And if you have any follow-up questions, feel free to call either Victoria or myself.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference call. The call has concluded. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i8150108 : Credit Cards | iposs : Point of Sale Systems | iindstrls : Industrials | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ielec : Electronics | iindele : Industrial Electronics
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccspon : Corporate Sponsorship | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100512e64s003ny
  


 HD
 Q1  2010  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
7,414 words
   PD
3 February 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Incorporated's fiscal first quarter 2010 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thank you very much. Good afternoon, and welcome to Visa Inc's fiscal first quarter 2010 earnings conference call. And again, our sincerest apologies for what was a pretty large technical difficulty.

   TD
Today with us are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast over the internet and can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and as a result of variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning those factors is available on the company's filings with the SEC, which can be accessed through the SEC's website and in the Investor Relations section of the Visa website. For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal first quarter press release. This release can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our website.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN & CEO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Jack. As we begin our new fiscal year, I'm pleased to report that our first quarter results were indicative of both the continuing secular shift to electronic payments, especially debit, as well as some encouraging signs in spending domestically and internationally. That being said, and consistent with our guidance expectations, it remains difficult to foresee how global economies will perform in the coming year, so we maintain cautious optimism about Visa's results over the balance of 2010.

Earnings for our first fiscal quarter on a GAAP basis were $1.02 per diluted share, a 28% or 38% increase over the first quarter of 2009. Net income on a GAAP basis was $763 million, a 33% increase over the year-ago period. Recall that we will no longer be providing an adjusted basis for these metrics, but will adhere to the GAAP reported numbers going forward.

Net operating revenues in the quarter were just under $2 billion, a 13% increase over the year-ago period, and in line with our guidance as a result of solid payment value and [cross-quarter] volume growth as well as strong processed transaction growth. For the first time in our quarterly reporting, we are providing global payment volume growth in our operational performance data pack for the quarter just ended. These results, which will still be recognized on a lag basis and reflected in fiscal second quarter service revenue, show encouraging improvement over the fiscal first quarter. Process transactions continue to grow from the mid to high single-digit levels we saw over the course of fiscal 2009, ending the first quarter at 10.9 billion transactions, a 12% growth rate over the prior-year period and up 9% from the growth reported for the fiscal fourth quarter.

I'm pleased that we are executing well against our business plan. As we expand our payments network -- growing issuers and acceptance locations, expanding our processing capabilities, and driving transactions with effective marketing programs -- we are able to make full advantage of the secular trend to digital currency and grow our business. As a result, even in this difficult economic environment, we are generating solid earnings and returning excess cash flow to our shareholders. During the first quarter, we repurchased $432 million of our Class A shares under our previously announced $1 billion buyback plan at an average price of just under $79 a share. We will continue to execute on this buyback as conditions warrant.

We also recently announced the unlocking of an additional 56 million shares of our class C stock, which will allow class C shareholders, primarily our international financial institution owners, the ability to further monetize their Visa investment ahead of the scheduled March 2011 unlock. This program has no dilutive effect on our earnings per share and is similar to the prior program we executed in July of last year. With that, let me turn the call over to Byron, who will take you through the details of our financial results, and I'll be back to share our views on the economic environment and our upcoming March investor day.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. As is customary, let me begin with the financial highlights for our first fiscal quarter, and then comment on the global payment volume trends for the current quarter, followed by transaction results for January. As Joe already mentioned, it was a solid quarter with slightly higher than anticipated revenue growth, and earnings growth in line with our guidance. As noted earlier, we began providing real time payment volume statistics this quarter. However, it is important to keep in mind that for the time being, we will continue to recognize current quarter service revenues on prior-quarter payment volume. While it is our ultimate intent to recognize the associated revenue on a currency basis as well, that is still in the future.

Global payment volume growth for the September quarter, in constant dollars, rose from a positive 2% in the June quarter to 3%. In the US, payment volume growth was a negative 1% in the September quarter, up from a negative 3% in the June quarter. Debit again proved both its resiliency as a product and its secular appeal by delivering a positive 7% growth compared to 5% growth in the June quarter. Credit, while still challenged, improved to a negative 9% in the September period from a negative 10% in the June period. On a constant dollar basis, rest of world payment volume grew at 8% in the September quarter, holding steady with the 8% rate delivered in the June quarter. These results reflect continued secular growth and a strong and healthy diversified country base outside of the US.

Global cross-border volume growth improved in the September quarter, posting a negative 5% growth rate on a constant dollar basis from the negative 8% rate in the June period. Transactions processed over Visa's network totaled $10.9 billion in the fiscal first quarter, an increase of 12% over the similar period a year ago and up from 9% we saw in the September quarter.

Turning to the income statement, in our first fiscal quarter, gross revenues of $2.3 billion were up 16% from the similar period in 2009. Volume and support incentives as a percentage of gross revenues came in at 16%, up from the prior-year's depressed level of 13%, and more indicative of what we can expect over the course of fiscal 2010 as payment volume growth improves versus the prior year. Net operating revenues in the quarter were almost $2 billion, a 13% increase over the operating revenues reported for the first fiscal quarter of 2009. This was in line with our revenue guidance, though slightly ahead of the low end of an 11% to 15% range provided to you last quarter. The drivers were better than anticipated processed transaction growth and cross-border volume, as well as the continuing effective of previously disclosed pricing actions.

Moving to the individual revenue line items for the quarter, service revenue was $827 million, up 4% over the prior-year period, and reflective of still relatively anemic payment volume growth in the quarter ending September. Data processing revenue was $765 million, up 38% over the prior year, based on strong processed transaction growth of 12% and the continuing effect of previously enacted pricing actions. International transaction revenues were up a solid 9% to $552 million, primarily due to an improvement in cross-border volumes during the periods. The foreign exchange impact on revenue in the fiscal first quarter was neutral, due to the impact of our hedging activity. At this point in the fiscal calendar, the balance of year revenue forecast is substantially hedged.

Our operating margin was 62%, but benefited from a onetime reversal of $41 million in litigation reserves, and from favorable timing in marketing spend. The $41 million contraexpense in the quarter is related to the previously announced prepayment of the retailers' litigation settlement, which, by itself, represents 2 full percentage points of margin and contributed a nonrecurring $0.03 to the quarter's earnings per share.

Total operating expenses for the first quarter were $743 million, a decline of $30 million or 4% year-over-year. These results benefited from the gain related to the retailers' litigation settlement mentioned earlier and $28 million in restructuring costs incurred in the prior year. Our expectation continues to be that expenses on a full-year basis will be relatively flat to the 2009 level on a GAAP basis.

On a sequential quarter basis, we saw lower expenses in several line items, including personnel, marketing, and professional fees. The lower personnel spending was primarily due to lower restructuring expenses and incentive accruals that the current quarter. This quarter, we also reclassified certain contractor expenses to the personnel line that heretofore were characterized under professional and consulting fees. This reclassification was applied to each of the four quarters of fiscal 2009 and the full year 2008. We have included a pro forma reconciliation of this with our press release financials to assist you in your modeling efforts.

Marketing costs were sequentially lower. For context, we intentionally curtailed some media spend in the first quarter, while absorbing Winter Olympic production expenses in 2009's fiscal fourth quarter. Media spend will increase in the second and third quarters around the Olympics and the FIFA World Cup event, both of which are major Visa sponsorships. Even with these investments aimed at activating our global sponsorship, we continue to see full-year marketing expense below $1 billion. Professional and consulting fees declined sequentially as a result of higher spending in the prior quarter as we brought our new East Coast data center fully online. Capital expenditures were $37 million in the quarter, representing ongoing investment in technology and our newer initiatives. For fiscal 2010, we now expect capital expenditures to be around $200 million.

Moving on to the balance sheet, we ended the first quarter in strong shape, with negligible debt and cash, cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investments of $6 billion. Of this total, $1.6 billion is restricted cash, which represents amounts sufficient to fully pay out the American Express settlement, with $1 billion that is currently uncommitted. As we previously announced in a press release two weeks ago and as Joe mentioned earlier, we will be unlocking 50% of the remaining outstanding class B shareholders, representing 56 million shares, which will further alleviate the class C overhang as we approach the ultimate unlock date of March 25th, 2011.

Now let me comment on December's payment volume data, and our early read on January. Then I'll cover our updated financial expectations for the balance of the year. Global payment volume growth for the December quarter in constant dollars rose from a positive 3% in September to 8%. We experienced meaningful growth in all of our global regions.

In the US, payment volume growth was a positive 7% in the December quarter, up from a negative 1% in the September quarter. Debit continued to prove its resiliency as a product and its secular appeal by delivering a positive 15% growth compared to 7% growth in the September quarter. Debit currently accounts for 54% of total US payment volume. Credit, while still challenged, rebounded to a negative 1% in the December period from a negative 9% rate in the September period. Looking to January, through the 28th of the month, US payment volume growth of 10% is above the fiscal fourth quarter rate of 7% and on par with December's month end -- December's 10% growth. On a constant dollar basis, rest of world payment volumes grew at 10% in the December quarter, up from an 8% rate in the September quarter. These results recognized continued secular growth and a strong and healthy diversified country base outside of the US.

Global cross-border volume growth rebounded considerably in the December quarter, posting a 2% growth rate on a constant dollar basis from the negative 5% rate in the September period. Growth in the month of December was an unexpectedly strong 4%. Whether it is representative of a broader cyclical trend or just pent-up demand remains to be determined. Having said that, January cross-border volume growth on a constant basis showed further resiliency, posting a 9% rate of growth through the 28th of the month, up from the 4% rate for the month of December. Processed transactions through the 28th of January grew 13% over the prior-year period, up slightly from the 12% growth posted for the fiscal first quarter.

Now let me comment on our expectations over the coming fiscal year for operating performance and the resulting impact on our full-year guidance. Based on an encouraging first quarter, we are recasting our net revenue growth target for the year to be in the range of 11% to 15%, rather than at the low end of that range. Holding to our target range recognizes that our fiscal year is just underway, and global economic performance is still difficult to foresee. We continue to target better than 20% earnings per share growth in 2010 on a GAAP basis, excluding the VisaNet Brazil gain, and a 2011 earnings per share growth goal of better than 20%.

We are raising our expectation for our full-year 2010 operating margin to the mid-to high 50s, up slightly from the mid-50s we initially targeted for this year. As mentioned earlier, increased marketing and advertising expenses in the next two quarters as well as further investments in our fewer initiatives will exert a downward bias on our margin for the balance of the year.

Based on a better understanding of our tax outlook, we now expect our full-year 2010 tax rate to be in the range of 36.5% to 38.5%, rather than the 38% to 39% range with which we began the year. Capital expenditures are now expected to be around $200 million, at the low of our initial range of $200 million to $250 million, and our projection for free cash flow for the year remains north of $2 billion, which is net of the $682 million prepayment we made in the quarter on the previously settled retailers' litigation.

That concludes my comments, so I'll turn the call back over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS: Thanks Byron, at this point I'm sure you are sensing an underlying theme of appropriate cautiousness in our comments, and you should. While there is no question that we feel positive about Visa's position in light of what is still a challenging economic picture, it's difficult to predict when a sustained recovery will be underway. As the ongoing secular shift to electronic payment continues, a significant portion of our marketing and advertising activities are squarely aimed at positively influencing that shift to Visa products. We saw strong growth in debit with positive comparables in certain categories of spend like fuel and reoccurring bill pay adding to that growth. We saw better than anticipated international and cross-border volumes, but we're not clear if those are improving volumes representing a rebound, or simply pent-up demand as Byron mentioned. We believe any recovery will take time and will likely have a few bumps along the way. A complete turnaround in the US will arguably take even longer. Things like continuing high unemployment and underemployment, high levels of consumer debt that restrain consumer confidence will keep a lid on overall spending and payments growth, especially credit for the foreseeable future.

So at this point in time we are continuing to focus on the initiatives that allowed us to get through this recession up to now in good shape. Focusing on costs, efficiencies, and making the right investments for the future will allow us to fully take advantage of our business models as economies around the world gain ground. More importantly, it will set the stage for success over the longer term as the payments industry continues to evolve globally. At our upcoming investor day in March, we will be providing you greater insights into our long term growth strategy. Specifically, we will explore the six key elements to this strategy, including our local market focus, products and services, processing, brand, clients, and acceptance. And we'll discuss how the investment decisions we are making today will help us achieve our longer-term growth objectives. As part of investor day, various members of our Management team will present on their respective areas of expertise to illustrate how the elements of our strategy tie together. We're looking forward to engaging in the strategic discussion with you. And of course, we welcome your input on the agenda for the investor day and encourage you to reach out to our Investor Relations team on any specific areas of interest or concern you would like to see covered. With that, we're ready to take questions. Operator?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). One moment, please, for the first question. Our first question comes from Adam Frisch from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

ADAM FRISCH, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, guys. Good afternoon.

JOE SAUNDERS: Good afternoon.

ADAM FRISCH: Professional and consulting expense, Byron, you explained why it was a little bit lower year-over-year, but it is actually the one line item we would like to see increase a lot, given that's where the bulk of the product and R&D spend is. So what is the trend there in terms of the investment in product and R&D? And would you consider breaking out those investments in a separate line item going forward, so investors can get a better feel for resource allocation?

BYRON POLLITT: Once we normalize out the professional consulting expense associated with getting the new data center open, which is now fully operational and live, we should be managing that up as we continue to invest in expanding our infrastructure and capabilities as well as new product investments. With regards to breaking that out to give more visibility to the type of expense that's going against future growth, great question. We have that under consideration, and will seriously consider that, perhaps later in the year.

JOE SAUNDERS: You should remember that that line item includes all of our legal expenses for litigation, and we had a lot of that last year.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jason Kupferberg from UBS. Your line is open.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, I had a quick question and a clarification if I could. My question is just to what extent are you seeing issuers reengage and start promoting credit products more actively, and how much of that activity might be directed towards the affluent end of the market? We're also hearing more about increased mailings appearing over the last two months of 2009, and my clarification is can you give a split on your US payment volume for January between credit and debit within that, plus 10%?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, it -- to answer the first part of your question, and I'll let Byron answer the second part of it -- I think that there is considerable interest in the higher end of the retail market. I don't think there's any question about that. And there is some evidence that there's a little bit more activity on the solicitation front, but I would say it's way to early to say things have turned around, and we're back to something that's close to where we were maybe a 1.5 to two years ago.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me give you a little color upon US debit and credit, and give you a little bit of historical trending by month, and then end of January, so you can see the progress. If we were to go back to October, credit grew in the US at minus 4%, November minus 2%, and then December actually turned positive 2%. January month to date through the 28th, positive 1%. If we were to do the same chronology for debit, October debit payment volume growth for the US was positive 12%, moved to positive 15% in November, positive 19% in December, and is holding at positive 19% January month to date.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Julio Quinteros from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Can you just characterize a little bit on what you are seeing in terms of the impact of the Card Act, and what they that might be doing relative to your pricing strategies or anything that you guys might be feeling as a result of the legislation at this point?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I think as we have said before, the Card Act has an indirect effect on us, but not a direct effect, and you are asking a question that is difficult for me to answer. I think it would be more appropriately answered by our financial institution customers. I mean, having said that, Byron just went over the gross statistics on the credit card business compared to the debit card business, and I think it's clear that it's not -- it's not growing at anything close to the rates that it historically has. And obviously some of that -- a lot of that has to do with the economy, and a lot of it has to do with the rules and regulations that they operate in.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Craig Maurer at CLSA. Your line is open.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Good afternoon. Question about -- you had mentioned growth in recurring bill pay. I was wondering if you had any progress in terms of getting utilities to sign on for that product?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think we have had pretty consistent growth in that category over the last several years. I can't tell you exactly what percent of that category it is. It's something that you might want to follow up with Jack on.

CRAIG MAURER: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus. Your line is open. Mr. Brendler, your line is open. Our next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW, your line is open.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Thank you. Byron, I was wondering if you could just quantify the seasonality of the marketing step in year in terms of magnitude. And just the tax rate, should we assume that we would build off of that in terms of migrating lower in 2011? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: On the marketing side, the way we have tried to be helpful here is that the one -- the first quarter is low spending for the year. We will increase marketing in the second fiscal quarter, marketing spending. Think of that as Winter Olympics driven. Then third quarter we'll be increasing marketing spend relative to the first quarter. Think of that as FIFA World Cup. So this -- the marketing spend, which is under $1 billion was the guidance for the year, is much more oriented to the middle two fiscal quarters, with the first quarter probably being the lightest.

If you switch to the tax rate -- so we have reguided the tax rate into a range of 36.5% to 38.5%, so that follows the trajectory that we outlined during our IPO presentation of ultimately aiming to be in the 35% to 36% range, so we consider that a journey. We have yet to process what the administration's recent tax proposals are, and of course that guidance was not enlightened by those tax proposals, so I would say stay tuned on what 2011, 2012, and beyond will ultimately yield, but we remain on the trajectory of getting in to that 35% to 36% range that we talked about from inception.

OPERATOR: Next question from Rod Bourgeois from Bernstein. You line is open.

ROD BOURGEOIS, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Yes, guys, you just posted 13% revenue growth, very strong volume growth, and also improving revenue yield, and we're at the beginning of what seems to be an upturn in the economy, and so your current revenue growth run rate is at the midpoint of your new revenue growth guidance. I was wondering if you could just handicap or talk to us about what would have to happen for your revenue growth to come in at the low end of your revenue range? And then what would have to happen to be at the high end or above the upper end of your range? Because it seems if the cyclical trends continue just to run on their current pace, you might actually be able to exceed your latest revenue guidance range, or maybe I'm looking at that the wrong way? So I'm wondering if you could handicap that for us?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I mean I think that we said on a number of occasions that we're comfortable with our guidance, and we're maintaining cautious optimism. We think that we did better in the first quarter than we thought we were going to do. We don't know whether that level of activity is sustainable, and I'm a little bit conservative in that I'm not ready to predict where the economy is going, and so it's hard for me to answer that question. What I can answer is given the environment that we're operating in today, we're comfortable with the guidance that we have given.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Bruce Harting from Barclays Capital. Your line is open.

BRUCE HARTING, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Can you just compare and contrast the credit trends in US versus rest of world in terms of the growth rates that you are seeing? And then to the degree that we can give any outlook to next -- 2011 on the expense line? Ordinarily companies with the kind of growth you're having are matching that off with some kind of expense growth, but you're able to hold the line on expense and marketing this year. And still as a last question, alluded to -- give the appearance, at least through first quarter that you're well ahead of your targets. So if you could just comment on those? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me start with the credit trends. So using rest of world as the proxy for what you are asking about, the rest of world considered on a constant dollar basis, the growth trends in credit, credit alone -- so this would exclude debit -- credit alone, never turned negative. It did drop from high double-digit growth in to mid-single-digit growth, which is where, I would say -- that's what we're looking at for the quarter just ended. It -- in December, and on a slight upward trend for rest of world. But we're still in that mid-to upper single-digit credit growth. If you look at all products, credit plus debit, then you are right around 10% growth for the quarter just ended -- that would be the quarter just ended in December.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang from JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks. I wanted to ask about debit, which accelerated more than we expected, both in the US and overseas. I guess a couple of questions there. Was there anything unusual to consider, like new wins cycling through? I'm just trying to get a better sense of same-store growth. And secondly, I was curious if you were seeing any signs of debit cannibalizing credit?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I don't know how you would define whether debit cannibalizes credit or not. I mean, obviously debit is growing more quickly than credit, and I think that's the nature of the economic environment that we're living in. I think that the question is to what extent will the credit volume accelerate as the economy improves? And I think until that happens, it's going to be hard to measure the balance between the two of them. I mean, we obviously remain very encouraged about our debit growth, but we're frankly also encouraged with what is going on with the credit product in the world outside of the United States particularly, but we're not particularly discouraged about what is going on in the US. Was there another part of the question? Did I answer your question?

JACK CARSKY: Next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Dan Perlin from RBC Capital. Your line is open.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good evening. I was wondering if you would give us some update as it pertains to the enhanced checkout services you guys had been talking about in the past, and then the other EC initiatives, e-commence initiatives that you have been spending a fair bit of money on? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I think the enhanced checkout is something that we're pretty excited about, and we intend to roll that out in a very big in about six weeks. So I think I'll leave that until investor day presentation. But I will -- I will tease you by telling you we're extremely excited about it, and we think it will be a big deal. And we continue to invest in that, and other electronic payment improvements, whether they are in the internet space or the mobile space or anyone of a number of other things. Byron mentioned that probably beginning in our March investor day, we'll break out what we're spending on what a little bit more clearly than we have up to now, but I will remind you that we have committed to spending $150 million to $200 million on new product development this year, and I think that we'll get there.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jim Kissane from Banc of America. Your line is open.

JIM KISSANE, ANALYST, BAS-ML: Thanks. Joe, can you comment on the competitive environment and your recent loss of a debit portfolio? Thanks. And maybe just a follow-up, an update on the conversion of the WaMu portfolio, and the timing of the SunTrust roll-off? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I think that we've said for a long time on a lot of these calls that you should expect that sooner or later, we're going to lose a customer, and that's exactly what happened. We like to believe that we're disciplined as it relates to what we're willing to do, and how far we're willing to go, and I think that this is a case in point. So I'm unhappy that we lost a customer. We don't lose very many. We have gained a lot more than we have lost, but that being said, it's a tough competitive environment, and as I have also said on a number of occasions, MasterCard is a good company, and they are -- just consistently get beat on every deal that there is.

As it relates to the WaMu portfolio, I think we're just beginning to see -- we're only at the very early stages of beginning to see any volume. The conversion is going on. I think it's pretty de minimis in the numbers that you are looking at for this quarter, particularly since the service revenues are lag. I would say as it relates to SunTrust that I don't know what their conversion schedule is, but I believe it will take a reasonable amount of time to fully divest themselves.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Tom McCrohan from Janney. Your line is open.

TOM MCCROHAN, ANALYST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT: Hi, good afternoon. Joe, can you prioritize your strategic initiatives beyond this year, as far as how you are going to generate long-term revenue growth outside of the secular shift from cash and check to electronic payments, one of those initiatives obviously being trying to position Visa as best possible for growth outside the United States. Just wondering how you are thinking about that? Because given that everyone keeps talking about the secular shift, secular shift -- that is going to slow at some point. And it seems like there are a lot more powerful trends outside of the US. Just want to see how you're thinking about that, thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: We would ride the secular shift for quite a while if we did it appropriately. But you are right, there is a lot more to it than that. I don't think I could even begin to answer that question, and do it justice in the amount of time we have. But once again, I would encourage you and everybody else to attend our investor conference, because I do intend, and we do intend to expand a great deal on this subject. And it's -- it's worth listening to, and it will take a little time, but I can assure you if you come, the trip will be worthwhile.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from David Parker from Lazard. Your line is open.

DAVID PARKER, ANALYST, LAZARD CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, good afternoon. I was hoping you could update us on the Canadian market. And specifically the Finance Minister up there has established some current voluntary code of conduct that you and others have responded to. But is that -- any sense for the outcome of that and has that changed your strategy or your timing for entering that market more aggressively?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think that we're in a period of -- well, I'll call it a period of reflection right now, and I don't think it will move quite as aggressively as we might have hoped. But having said that, these rules in general are quite acceptable to us, and I think that the one or two sticking points that will be resolved and I think that we'll proceed in to the market, but I can't give you specifics, or specific timing as it relates to that. I guess I'll just have to leave you with the thought that we're still sure that we will be in the debit market in Canada at some time in the not terribly distant future.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Tim Willi from Wells Fargo. Your line is open.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good afternoon. A question around debit or Q parts. Number 1 were there any portfolio conversions in 1Q that helped to drive such strong growth and cards issued? It looks like there probably was. And second, just within the debit business, and the strong growth and what appears to be accelerating growth, is there any -- are there any strategic or product driven initiatives within Visa or the large issuers that you are aware of that could be setting the stage for more than just a cyclical rebound, but maybe a lot more life in the debit market than maybe was previously thought?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, okay. So to answer the first part of the question, we have looked at this quite carefully, and there is no effect of adding other portfolios in our numbers in this quarter. All right. The growth is real growth, not growth because we added a customer.

To answer the second part of your question, it seems to me that when I look at retail services, and financial institutions, that there is a more holistic customer experience type of movement that's going on. I think it's a share of wallet movement. I think it is an effort by financial institutions to embrace individual customers over a wide array of products, and making sure that these things complement each other. And so I think you'll see things begin to happen that are a little bit different than I think you'll see -- I believe that you'll see some focus on encouraging transactions and encouraging consolidation within a financial institution. But I am not a financial institution, and I cannot speak for them. And there is a lot going on in every major financial institution in this country as a result of the economy we find ourselves in, and the rules and regulations that they live by. So I would encourage you to continue to ask them the same questions, and see what they say.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Roger Smith from Macquarie. Your line is open.

ROGER SMITH, ANALYST, MACQUARIE SECURITIES: Thanks very much. I just know that there's a number of licensing fees in the other line, and I was just wondering is there something unique going on there that quarter? And then the second part I guess is that you did give us the trends in the US, but was there anything specific that happened in those businesses that did cause you to increase your guidance? I mean, relative to what you guys had been expecting, what is changing?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I think that there's a little bit more pickup than we anticipated. There's clearly more pickup in the cross-border volume than what we had anticipated. So we're pleasantly surprised in that regard, and as relates to your first question --

BYRON POLLITT: Let me take -- you're referring to the other revenue. We -- there are a couple of drivers there that are worth putting out. The first one is, we have an arrangement with many of our clients where we handle their rewards redemptions, and we refer to these as pass-through revenues or expenses. And so there has been a pickup in our redemptions over the past year. That was true for this quarter, and that pickup is the single largest driver of the growth rate in other revenue, and that comes with an equal -- roughly an equal offset in expense. There is some licensing -- some new licensing revenue in this category, and this comes from arrangements that we have entered into with the entity we referred to as VisaNet Brazil. And at the time they went public -- up to the time they went public, they would pay us regular dividends. And so the dividends stopped because our share ownership was sold, but instead we are now receiving licensing fees, and they -- those licensing fees occur -- appear in other revenue. The dividends that we used to receive were appearing in other income. And those are the two principal drivers for that growth.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Robert Dodd from Morgan Keegan. Your line is open.

ROBERT DODD, ANALYST, MORGAN KEEGAN & CO., INC.: Hi, guys just on the pricing that you put forward. If I remember right, you took a price increase in the September quarter in data processing. So seeing that, should we be expecting basically lapping of that in the fourth fiscal quarter this year the slowdown in revenue? Or do you have other material pricing initiatives underway to offer that lapping effect?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, the one that you are talking about, we would lap in the fourth quarter. We have given guidance on [we'll] expect pricing increases to generate this year in our current guidance that -- I don't think that that would cover the shortfall. We have always pointed that out. As it relates to anything else at the point in time that we make any decision as it relates to that pricing, and whether or not it will affect our guidance, we'll disclose that immediately.

JACK CARSKY: Operator, at this time we probably have time for one more call or one more question.

OPERATOR: Our last question comes from Bob Napoli from Piper Jaffray. Your line is open.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Thank you. Another question on debit. We look at some banks that put our their debit spending numbers, and your spending numbers are much higher than -- on debit are much higher than the banks. And so I'm wondering is -- where are you seeing that? Are you seeing new customers and community banks picking up market share? Is prepaid having a significant effect on debit? And also your international debit, I mean, are have there been some breakthroughs in international?

JOE SAUNDERS: That's a difficult question for me to answer, Bob. I mean, I -- we can't grow any faster than our customers. I mean, whatever they grow, we grow. We don't have any volume outside of that. We have a prepaid business that's doing quite well, but it is not -- I mean it -- I mean there's nothing about it that would shock you in our numbers right now. I think that outside the United States, it's the secular shift in our continued success in being able to make electronic payments (inaudible) in a number of geographies, and other than that, I think it's the things that financial institutions are doing to encourage the usage of debit cards in the United States. And of course, I shouldn't diminish the effect that we're having on moving things to electronic payments through our promotions and our advertising in our market.

JACK CARSKY: All right. That about wraps it up. Thank you, all, very much, for joining us today, and apologize again for the technical glitch. If anybody has any follow-up questions, feel free to call Investor Relations. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i8150107 : Debit Cards | i8150108 : Credit Cards | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | csched : Announcements of News Conferences/Calls | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100217e6230039i
  


 HD
 Q4  2009  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,189 words
   PD
27 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa, Inc.'s fiscal fourth quarter 2009 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Visa, Inc.'s fiscal fourth quarter and full year 2009 earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Chief Financial Officer.

   TD
This call is currently being webcast over the Internet and can be accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior this call. Let me remind you this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning those factors is available in the Company's filings with the SEC which can be accessed through the SECs website in the Investor Relations section of the Visa website. For historical non-GAAP pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal fourth quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our website. For that I'll turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Jack, and thank you, all, for joining us. I'm pleased to report the fiscal fourth quarter results were once again consistent with the guidance and expectations we provided during our last earnings call. Several metrics even exceeded our expectations. While the US and the rest of world are still picking themselves up from the economic storm of the past year, we are beginning to see some very early signs of stabilization and some positive trends in aggregate (inaudible).

Earnings for the fourth quarter on an adjusted basis were $0.74 per diluted share. For all of 2009 adjusted earnings were $3.23, and were positively impacted by the sale of our nearly 10% equity ownership in VisaNet Brazil last quarter. On our adjusted pro forma basis that excludes this gain Visa earned $2.92 per diluted share, a 30% increase over 2008, and well above our stated earnings goal. Net operating revenues in the fourth quarter were almost $1.9 billion, a 10% increase over the year-ago period and above our guidance of mid-single-digit growth due to the better than expected process transaction growth, cross-border volumes, and our previously announced pricing modification on domestic process transactions.

Net operating revenues for fiscal 2009 were $6.9 billion. A 10% increase over 2008 and moderately higher than we had reforecast earlier this year. Our adjusted operating margin was 49% for the fourth quarter, modestly dilutive due to the reorganization charges and marketing investments related to creative development for the Olympics, FIFA World Cup and our recently announced Courtesy of Progress campaign. Full year 2009 our adjusted operating margin was 53% consistent with our guidance of low 50s. For fiscal 2010, we are increasing our margin guidance to the mid 50% range. Byron will speak to this further momentarily.

Adjusted fourth quarter income was $552 million, a 23% increase over the year-ago period. For the full fiscal year 2009 adjusted net income was $2.4 million. Excluding VisaNet Brazil, pro forma adjusted net income was $2.2 billion representing a 26% increase over the adjusted 2008 period.

I will let Byron get into the specifics on payment volume trends but in general we're beginning to see some very early signs of improvement domestically and internationally. While we cannot predict the ultimate speed or size of the economic recovery, or if the flu pandemic will have any meaningfully attempt on cross-border volumes. We are feeling more positive about trends for the first time in a long while.

Another clear sign of progress is in the process transactions. For the September quarter we reported processing 10.5 billion transactions, a 90% increase over the prior year period as the migration to electronic payments continues on a global basis. Just in the month of September, the growth rate expanded to 10%, and that has been the trend through the 18t, of October. From a marketing and advertising perspective, we have made immeasurable strides over the past year founded on an ROI-based analysis of our marketing spend. We began and will continue to move away from brand advertising towards more specific product line initiatives like debit, affluent credit, prepaid, and mobile. We are devoting more of our marketing dollars to the digital space globally and we are focusing more of our spending on key growth markets like Brazil, Russia, and the GSEC. We expect to maintain a similar or slightly elevated level of marketing spend in 2010 over that of 2009, given the importance of staying ahead of the curve as key economies across the globe begin to rebound.

All in all, our financial performance in fiscal 2009 was solid. Especially given the economic environment we're operating in. We delivered on all of our financial goals and even exceeded them in several metrics while investing in all of our growth initiatives and executing very effectively on our efficiency program. This led to record free cash flow in fiscal 2009 of $3.3 billion, inclusive of the VisaNet Brazil sale which allowed us to return over $2.1 billion of excess cash to our shareholders over the course of the year.

In this same vein, last week we announced an increase to our annual dividend of 19% and today announced the authorization of a share repurchase program totaling $1 billion. We are extremely pleased that Visa is able to continue to build on our success in driving total return to our shareholders and today's buyback announcement and the recent dividend increase are evidence of our continued commitment to our shareholders in 2010.

In addition to the mid-50s operating margins mentioned earlier as we look ahead to fiscal 2010, we are increasingly confident that we can regain the low end of our 11 to 15% annual net growth target and deliver another year of better than 20% adjusted EPS growth. We are also establishing a similar EPS growth target for 2011. We believe that we have positioned areas of our business to take full advantage of the economic rebound as it materializes. We will provide additional information around our future expectations in early March that what will be our inaugural investor day.

From an investment standpoint, we have identified those opportunities that will result in the greatest return on investment over the near term and will continue to be a critical part of our longer term growth both domestically and globally. These include acceptance, debit and prepaid, global processing, and, of course, enhancing our presence on the Internet. I will speak to these further at the end of the call. We've continued the make good progress in Washington and believe that the interchange debate increasingly is viewed as a business to business issue that it is, not the consumer issue the merchants lobby has attempted to portray it is.

We are focusing our resources on educating the proper constituencies to the facts in the debate rather than allow rhetoric and misinformation frame the discussion and to that end, we look forward to the completion of the GAO study later this year.

In concert with our Washington efforts earlier this month we launched a marking program designed to better define Visa's role as a payments network and articulate the powerful ways that digital currency advances economic empowerment and business efficiencies globally. Titled the Currency of Progress, the initiative uses real-life stories to demonstrate how the migration from cash and checks to electronic payments has helped individuals access their money more securely and conveniently, built stronger, more efficient businesses and enabled governments to be more cost effective and responsive to their citizens. The reliability and speed of Visa digital currency is often taken for granted, and not enough people understand that Visa is a global payments technology Company that enables financial institutions and merchants to deliver the value of electronic payments to the world.

Finally, earlier today we issued a press release announcing the renewal of our sponsorship of the Olympic Games for an additional eight years through 2020. This contract renewal is a testament to our long history of working relationship with the International Olympic Committee and really speaks to the global nature and reach of Visa's business. We also recently re-signed our sponsorship of the NFL through 2014 and along with our sponsorship of the if FIFA World Cup these three premier properties keep the Visa brand and promise get front and center to global audiences..

With that let me turn the call over the Byron who will take you through details of the financial results, then I will be back to share my views for the coming year.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. Let me begin with the financial highlights for our fiscal fourth quarter and full year 2009. Then I will touch on payment volume trends we are seeing for the September quarter as well as some early volume and transaction results for October. As Joe previously mentioned, it was another solid quarter with better than expected revenue growth and earnings growth in line with our guidance. As you may recall, service revenue for the September quarter is based on payment volume realized during the June quarter. Accordingly, total payment volume growth for Visa, Inc. through the end of June, in nominal dollars, was a negative 2% over the same quarter in 2008, an improvement over the negative 5% reported in the March quarter. On a constant dollar basis, payment volume grew a positive 2% in the June quarter, unchanged from the March period.

In the US, payment volume in the June quarter was a negative 3% over the prior year, unchanged from the March period. Debit delivered a positive 5% growth while credit growth was a negative 10%. Both unchanged from the March quarter. Debit payment volume continues to account for an ever greater percentage of total US volume. Although credit remains the prevailing choice in the rest of our region.

On a constant dollar basis, rest of world payment volume grew at 8% in the June quarter, moderating from the 10% growth exhibited in the March quarter but still solidly positive. A continuing recognition of the secular resiliency of plastic in many emerging and developing economies. Cross-border volume growth remained negative in the June quarter, posting an 8% decline on a constant dollar basis over the prior year period. This represented a moderate decline from the negative 6% reported in the March period. As in the previous quarters, the slowdown remained broad based. Transactions processed over Visa's network which are reported on a real-time basis totaled $10.5 billion in the fiscal fourth quarter, an increase of 9% over the similar period a year ago, and up slightly from the 8% growth rate we saw in the June quarter. An encouraging sign.

Turning to the income statement, in our fiscal fourth quarter, gross revenues of $2.2 billion were up 10% from a similar period in 2008. Volume and support incentives as a percentage of gross revenues came in at 15%, down from the third quarter's elevated level of 17%. For fiscal 2009, gross revenues were $8.1 billion, up 10% over fiscal 2008. Volume and support incentives rose only 6% as a result of the lower payment volume we experienced over the course of the period. Volume and support incentives represented 15% of gross revenue for the year. Based on our expectation for increased volumes and revenue in 2010, we are expecting volume and support incentives to increase modestly to the 16 to 17% range of gross revenue.

Net operating revenues in the quarter were almost $1.9 billion, a 10% increase over the operating revenues reported for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008. This was ahead of the revenue guidance we provided last quarter due to better than anticipated process transaction growth and cross-border volume as well as previously disclosed pricing action. As noted earlier, full fiscal year net operating revenues were $6.9 billion, a 10% increase over 2008, and a little above our expectations.

Moving to the individual revenue line items for the fourth quarter, service revenue was $808 million, up 3% over the prior year period, and reflective of still relatively depressed payment volumes in all regions for the quarter ending June. Data processing revenue reported on a current quarter basis was $727 million, up 33% over the prior year period based on strong process transaction growth of 9% and the effects of recently announced pricing action. International transaction revenues also reported on a current quarter basis were down 1% to $507 million due to moderating cross border volumes in the period. Our adjusted operating margin was 49%, slightly below our quarter guidance of low 50s. For the entire fiscal year, the adjusted operating margin was 53%, in line with our yearly guidance. I will provide additional color on our future margin expectations in a moment. On an adjusted basis, total operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $960 million, an increase of $17 million or 2% year-over-year primarily driven by higher personnel costs. For all of 2009, adjusted total operating expenses were $3.2 billion, a 4% decline from the level at fiscal 2008. While our focus on efficiency gains will continue into 2010, our expectation is that with the major restructuring initiatives behind us, expenses for the coming year will generally be flat to those of 2009.

On a sequential quarter basis, we saw higher expenses in several line items, including personnel and marketing. The higher personnel spend was primarily due to reorganization charges, as well as some incentive based costs that we do not expect to recur on a go-forward basis. Marketing costs were sequentially higher as we continued to support our Internet advertising initiative, our GO advertising campaign, and the currency of progress initiative. Additionally, we incurred creative and production costs associated with the upcoming Winter Olympics and FIFA World Cup. Overall in 2010 we anticipate spending less than $1 billion on marketing and advertising. In aggregate, our total expenses in the first fiscal quarter of 2010 should look more like the third quarter of fiscal 2009 rather than the fourth fiscal quarter.

Capital expenditures were $101 million in the quarter, which substantially completes the spending on our new data center that is now completely on-line. For all of fiscal 2009, capital expenditures were $306 million, at the time low end of our expectations going into the year. For fiscal 2010, we expect capital expenditures to be in a range of 200 million to $250 million. Having fully brought the new data center on-line, we will be realizing a higher level of depreciation and amortization in 2010 and beyond. As a point of reference, we expect that depreciation and amortization will incrementally rise by approximately $30 million for all of fiscal 2010.

Moving on to the balance sheet, we ended the fourth quarter and the year in very strong shape with negligible debt and cash, cash equivalents, investments and restricted cash of $6.6 billion. Of this total, $1.7 billion is restricted cash which represents amounts sufficient to fully pay out the American Express settlement with another $1 billion that is currently uncommitted. During the fourth quarter, we made the final Discover payment under the terms of our settlement.

As we discussed in our last earnings call on July 1, we began the process of unlocking up to 30% of the outstanding class C share holding, which will help alleviate some of the share overhang as we approach the ultimate unlock date of March 25, 2011. The results of this action exceeded our expectation with 89% of the potential shares unlocked by September 30, and more than half of those shares converted into class-A shares. Now let me comment on the trends we saw through the end of September and through the first three weeks of October.

On a real-time basis, US payment volume growth showed some positive signs of life during the September quarter with the overall growth rate coming in at a negative 1%, a solid improvement from the negative 3% of the June quarter. The individual month of September came in at a positive 1%. The first positive growth in a year, which was due in partly to the late vans the Labor Day holiday weekend versus the prior year. More recently, through the 21st of October, aggregate US payment volume growth was a positive 3%. We are also seeing the benefit of receiving head winds in the year-over-year gasoline comparables, which will continue to unfold as we move through our first fiscal quarter of 2010. While we draw some encouragement from this data, it is still not enough for us to call an inflection point in the US economy.

Deconstructing the US payment volume results on a real-time basis, credit volume growth ended the September quarter at a negative 9%, a slight improvement from the negative 10% posted in the June quarter. For the individual month of September, credit payment volume improved to a negative 7% rate and through 21, of October, improved to a negative 4%. Debit payment volume growth ended the September quarter in positive territory posting a 7% gain, up from 5% in the June quarter. The month of September improved to a positive 9%, and through October 21, has improved further to a positive 11%. Again, very encouraging trends, but too early to call an inflection point.

On a real-time basis, cross-border volume growth also showed some signs of improvement in the September quarter, with payment volume on a constant dollar basis moving from June's 8% decline to a negative 5% decline. Through the 21st of October, this improved further to a negative 2%. The improvement was led by North America. We have seen improvement on a nominal basis, as the dollar has weakened recently in key geographies. September's monthly rate on a nominal basis was a negative 3%, an improvement from the negative 15% reported in the June quarter, through October 21st, this has improved further to a positive 3% level of growth. As we have repeatedly stated, this is an encouraging trend, butts still too early to call an inflection point.

To give some context to the foreign exchange impacts on revenue in fiscal 2009, we believe that unfavorable foreign exchange rates reduced gross revenue growth by about 3 percentage points. Our expectation for 2010 is for a relatively neutral impact to revenue growth, given our hedging activity. Processed transaction growth ended the September quarter at 9%, an improvement over the 8% we reported in the January quarter. In the month of September, that rate was a positive 10%. October to date has maintained that same level of growth and continues to be a barometer of the strength and resilience of plastic.

Now let me comment on our expectations over the coming fiscal year for operating performance and the resulting impact on our guidance. As Joe mentioned earlier, we are increasingly comfortable with achieving the low end of our 11 to 15% net revenue growth target in 2010, and delivering better than 20% earnings per share growth in 2010, excluding the VisaNet Brazil gain in 2009. We are establishing a 2011 earnings per share growth goal of better than 20%, and we will provide additional color at our March investor meeting. We expect our full-year 2010 operating margin to be in the mid-50s, up slightly from the low 50s we achieved this year. Given economic uncertainties, it is always possible that we could see an individual quarter where the margin dips to the low 50s percent.

Our projection for free cash flow poor the year is north of $2 billion, which is net of the $682 million prepayment we made this month on the previously settled retailers litigation. We expect our 2010 tax rate to be in a range of 38 to 39%. Finally, on a go forward basis, we will no longer use the adjusted format for our earnings releases, and instead will rely on GAAP results. We will, of course, call out material one-time items or other extraordinary events. With our IPO now six quarters behind us, we feel that the original objective of reporting on an adjusted basis has now been met. That concludes my comments. So I will turn the call back over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS: Thanks, Byron. Before we move on to Q&A, I wanted to provide a brief update on some of the opportunities we are focused on as we move into 2010. We will be providing more in-depth detail at our inaugural investor day this March. We've talked a lot about these in the recent past, and we remain excited about the near-term contribution of each of them. As I mentioned earlier, these include acceptance, debit and prepaid, global processing, and, of course, enhancing our presence on the Internet.

With acceptance, we have identified four strategic objectives which include expanding merchant acceptance, optimizing the performance of all Visa's products at the point of sale, increasing the Visa share of total sales with merchants, and finally, building sustainable partnerships with our clients through programs like cobranding.

Both domestically and internationally we will continue to expand the cat growers spend on plastic, both debit and credit, as well as better penetrate existing successful categories. In the US, that means focusing on key growth channels like transportation and bill pay and micro payment categories such as vending. In the rest of the world, we are focused on replicating the early category successes we had here in the US in grocery, QSRs, fuel, and bill pay. We've talked a lot about debit more specifically prepaid, and continue to make a lot of progress on both fronts as some of the metrics we have spoken to in this call will attest. Our overall global debit strategy is built on expanding acceptance in everyday segments, encouraging use of the debit card at the point of sale, demonstrating acceptance benefits to merchants, improving the consumer awareness of debit via advertising, and protecting and growing our issuance. As far as prepaid is concerned, we view this as a product platform on which we will focus on specific segments to fuel continued growth.

The key categories remain government disbursement, employee benefits, incentives and rebates, healthcare, and payroll. The keys to continued success in this space are expanding penetration, which is quite good in the US, but much more nascent internationally, creating consumer preference, and most importantly, improving performance. While many of the issuance programs currently in place generate millions of cards and good payment volumes, others result in issuance of cards but little volume at the point of sale in favor of cash withdrawals at ATMs. It's part and parcel of our overall debit and prepaid strategies, we are implementing programs to boost conversion rates for these programs, as we have done and are doing in the US.

In processing we continue our focus on growing our domestic network processing. Not just in the US, but more important globally. To this end we recently expanded our relationship with Wells Fargo to include a long-term debit processing agreement. We're also exploring expanding our ability to offer issuer and acquirer processing at key foreign markets where we believe we could accelerate our success by making investments in or working with domestic entities willing to form partnerships.

Lastly, on the Internet, we continue to make progress in developing our new e-commerce solutions. This solution called Right Click by Visa is an on-line shopping tool targeted to consumers that assists on-line shoppers by offering the ability to brows multiple merchants and select items consumers are interested in looking at in one central location, making comparison shopping easier. Auto fill capabilities that instantly populate the consumer's shipping and payment details for faster checkout and exclusive offers through Visa cardholders and the ability to solicit feedback from friends on items the user is considering buying. Finally, we're working on an aliasing capability that will make the safest way to pay on the Internet even better. We expect rolling out this feature by the summer 2010.

Extensive testing of Right Click has been completed, and we are conducting tests with users and a limited number of US-based issuers in the coming weeks. Based on user feedback, we are continuing to refine features and functionality. We expect version 1.1 of Right Click to roll out early next calendar year. With that, we're ready to take questions. Operator.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) The first question comes from Jason Kupferberg, UBS.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, UBS: We appreciate the initial look at fiscal 2011. Just a quick question and a follow-up, if I can. First of all, with regard to the fiscal '10 net revenue growth guidance, can you talk about the amount of pricing lift that's assumed in there? I recognize you're going to have the US acquirer price increase continue to help you for the first three-quarters of fiscal '10. If you can help us get an understanding of how much pricing is assumed in the low end of the 11 to 15% range that would be great.

BYRON POLLITT: This is Byron. The amount of pricing impact we would describe as modest, less than what we experienced in 2009, but a little higher than the long-term steady rate, normalized rate of one to two percentage points that we have described earlier. The particular pricing action that you mentioned was initiated at the beginning of fiscal '09's fourth quarter and will anniversary through the third quarter of fiscal year '10.

JASON KUPFERBERG: Okay. Then just a quick follow-up on volumes. Really good to hear that things seem to be turning around there, not that one month makes a trend, but nonetheless, if you put gas prices aside here, and currency, which folks know are starting to help you here in the first quarter of fiscal '10, are there certain spending categories that you guys are starting to see a little bit of a recovery in first, in terms of how it's driving some of the better year-over-year volume growth comps?

JOE SAUNDERS: We would say at this point there's no call-out there, and that you have outlined the two bigger drivers that are moving the needle, the removal of FX that was head wind, and in the first fiscal quarter of 2010 we should start to see that neutral impact that we talked about during the call. And then the same phenomenon exists for gasoline prices sometime in this quarter potentially in the month of November we ought to be at the same average price per gas, and we should see that head wind pretty much go to neutral as well.

JASON KUPFERBERG: Okay, thanks for the comment.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Craig Maurer with CLSA.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CLSA: One comment, Joe, that you made at that time vend your remarks that caught my attention was the discussion of investing in merchant acquiring outside the market -- outside the US. As I always thought that that was a perfect fit for both the major US networks outside the US. So I was hoping you could expand on that a little bit?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I think I told you what we're looking at or thinking the about doing. But as it relates to specifics, I'm really -- I really don't think I can get into this at this particular point in time. The only thing that I will add is that when we -- when we, assuming that we're looking at acquiring, we're simply looking at places in the world where doing that will accelerate the distribution terminals and therefore accelerate our opportunities.

JASON KUPFERBERG: If I could ask one follow-up. On the personnel costs, they were up quite a bit. Was that related to the opening of the data center?

JOE SAUNDERS: No. It's -- I would say that it was what we said. It was reorganizational appropriate reorganization accounting, and some one-time incentives, but we'll be back to normal in the first quarter.

JASON KUPFERBERG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from David with Buckingham Research.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: The next question comes from David Hochstim, Buckingham Research. Your line is open. Thanks. just wonder id you could talk about how the organizational structure has changed with John becoming President? (Inaudible). Then just on the acquirer w fee, the change in process transaction, 1.5%, sequential increase in the fee was about 20%. Is all that related to the price change?

JOE SAUNDERS: You want to answer the second part of the question.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me start with the transaction fees. So the way we would look at it, the transaction fee, or data processing fees for the quarter, year-over-year, were up 33%. And we would break that apart in two segments. The first is that we had very strong transaction growth of -- in the 9% range for the quarter year-over-year, and then the acquiring fee does have an amplified impact on data processing fees. So think of the balance pricing action in combination with strong transaction growth.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: So the $100 million sequential increase roughly over that from Q3 to Q4 is kind of -- kind of a run rate, and it is should go up as volumes go up?

JOE SAUNDERS: It directly relates to volumes. There is a mix -- no, there really isn't a mix. It directly -- it should have a strong correlation to volume, then of course we've go to let the pricing actions run their course.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: Okay. With respect to John?

JOE SAUNDERS: John is the President. He's no longer the Chief Operating Officer because he is the President. But in reorganizing the titles more appropriate given the responsibilities he has but we won't be hiring a COO.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan. Your line is open.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. Can you hear me okay?

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Great, thanks. I guess I will ask this, the revenues came in nicely ahead of our view, the certain expense line came in a bit higher than we forecasted. Talked about personnel. I was wondering, was there any pull forward of (inaudible) spending especially in the professional an consulting fee line, and the admin and other lines? (Inaudible) looked like they stepped up a bit sequentially.

BYRON POLLITT: The professional fees were consistent with the strategic projects that were in -- investing in -- there was an extraordinary expenditure in marketing that really wasn't -- even though our guidance suggested that the marketing spend wasn't really part of it. We accelerated the creation of the creative or the currency in progress for the Winter Olympics and to some extent for FIFA. We spent some money on creative development and marketing that we didn't necessarily intend to, or didn't guide to, I guess is a better word. And it is a relates to the personnel expenses, as I said before, there were some reorganizations and incentive expenses that were extraordinary and are now behind us.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay, so just to make sure, the flat comment on the operating expense growth is the right baseline the adjusted expense number of -- I think I see here -- I guess you hit [$3.238 billion] in fiscal '09? Is that the right baseline?

BYRON POLLITT: No, it is -- look at it on a -- remember, I said on the earnings call we're moving to a GAAP comparison. So from this point forward, everything should be looked at on a GAAP to GAAP basis. We are excluding any impact from Brazil. Other than that, starting with the first quarter, and this was consistent with our guidance, flat expense GAAP result year-over-year.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Got it. If I could sneak in one last one real quick, just the buyback. Nice to see that, what's the general philosophy for buying back stock? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, when you see general philosophy, the general philosophy is that we return excess cash to shareholders in the form of dividends or buyback. Can you be a little more specific, Tien-Tsin?

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: I guess I was just wondering have you utilized the buyback opportunistically or will there be some systemic approach to rebuying the shares.

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes. They will be systematically opportunistic with the emphasis on the latter. Very disciplined -- very disciplined opportunistic buy back. We'll use open market and 10b5-1s, and we have a 12-month life on program.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Thanks.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Tom McCrohan, Janney Montgomery Scott, your line is open.

TOM MCCROHAN, ANALYST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT: I have a question on volume and support. You said the guidance of 16 to 17% for fiscal 2010, what's baked into that, and regards to expectations around payment volumes -- so if volumes pick up a little above your expectations should we expect that guidance to move a little bit, i.e. go down, or how fixed is that guidance, 16 to 17?

JOE SAUNDERS: Tom, if we go back to our original IPO guidance we said we expected volume and support incentives as a percent of gross revenue to be in that 16 to 18% range. This is very consistent with how we thought about it at the time of the IPO. At that time time of the IPO we thought of incentives moving up for two reasons. One of which is, is that it is a very specific strategy of Visa to enter into more multiyear contracts with our clients. It is through a multiyear contract that you actually create incentives, because that's the quid pro quo for a more than annual commitment to the told you. More client under multiyear contracts as time progresses. Then second is as the economies be Ben to recover, as our clients' credit portfolios in particular begin to, we would expect a higher rate of incentives to be earned. As you blend those two together, our outlook that supports payment volumes that would get us into the low end of the 11 to 15% revenue growth range would get you incentives in that 16 to 17% range.

TOM MCCROHAN: Okay.

JOE SAUNDERS: I mean, but, as you ask and as we have consistently said, to some extent of those are based on volumes. And anticipate that there will be some increase in volumes.

TOM MCCROHAN: Fair enough. And one administrative item. Is there any plan to publish the metrics, operating metrics on kind of a real-time basis in 2010?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, the operational -- I'm not quite sure what you are referring to. We do regularly publish operational data that would have -- just been issued. We do it on a quarterly basis, which is reasonably extensive on debit and credit and is done on a global basis. Excludes, of course, Visa Europe which is not part of Visa Inc. is there something beyond that you're asking about?

TOM MCCROHAN: The operational data that's published in connection with the arrangement with Visa on a one quarter lag.

BYRON POLLITT: We expect to address that in fiscal year '10, specifically the removement of the lag on reporting service fee revenue.

TOM MCCROHAN: Great, thanks, Byron.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Bob Napoli, Piper Jaffray.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: The marketing spend in 2010 talking about less than $1 billion, which that's kind of what we expected, but it's still below what you spent in 2008 and 2007. Can you give a little color on? I know you have some synergies, but are you actually marketing less than you did in '07 or '08 or are you marketing more?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think the effect of what we're doing is the same effect that we had a couple years ago. It's just that we're doing it smarter. You have a lot of things going on. We have more digital advertising supported by print. We have a little less TV, particularly in the United States and frankly television rates in the United States are down. They're a little bit more expensive outside the US, but I'd say the mix between TV and print and digital and the consolidation of our marketing efforts into a single buying entity, a single, pretty much a single creative thrust, all of that put together, we're getting to the same number of people in a more effective manner.

BOB NAPOLI: Thanks. Any chance would you give us -- you talked about prepaid, Joe. Give us a feel for how much spending. Prepaid is all in the debit category, correct?

JOE SAUNDERS: Correct.

BOB NAPOLI: Can you give us any feel for size of that business?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think that we'll be able to do a much better job about talking about prepaid and some of these other things at our investor day, so that's a good lead-in. I look forward to seeing you in March.

BOB NAPOLI: Okay. If I could just ask, corporate spend, any corporate in corporate spend? Last question. Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: Corporate--?

BOB NAPOLI: Corporate card.

BYRON POLLITT: Oh, corporate card. I'm sorry. It's something that we're aggressively pursuing. And obviously we need to pursue that through financial institutions, but you'll see us more active in that market.

BOB NAPOLI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Chris Brendler, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good afternoon. I had one clarification real quick. Byron, the depreciation and amortization guidance up $30, was that included in your total expense number being flattish?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Broader question for you, Joe. I sort of share your interchange views that you shared with us on the call. But I wanted to know, just hypothetically, do you feel like the Welsh bill and some of the restrictions around some of that rewards card and issus like that, is that more of a threat than some of the (inaudible) in your opinion?

JOE SAUNDERS: No, not at all. I mean, that's -- may sound like the simple answer, but it's the right answer.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. Just because of the -- explain why.

JOE SAUNDERS: It has the -- fewer people embrace it, and it has less traction than anything else that's out there, and it's starting in the place of way in back where a lot of of the things began and just the history of this entire dialogue would suggest that my answer is appropriate.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. One last one, I guess. You've mentioned the brand spending is no longer as big of a part of your marketing budget, but then you also talk about renewals was (inaudible) funds and the Olympics, can you give us an idea at all how much of your marketing budget is brand spend?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think that probably when everything is said and done it's maybe around 30%. But remember, even with the NFL, and when you see the Olympic ads, these are going to be more action oriented ads that ask people to spend. The NFL ads will have, Use your Visa card and go to the Super Bowl. The Olympic ads will have a usage component associated with them. So even these sponsorships are not going to be entirely aspirationally for (inaudible).

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Most of my questions actually have been asked and answered but I did notice in the context of a pretty large revenue beat you did have the card service fees was actually a little below our expectation and the rate kind of as a percentage of volume was down. Partially offset I guess by less incentives. Is there anything going on there in terms of customer mix that you could highlight?

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes, in service fees, remember this is on a one quarter lag, so service fee revenues were up 3% and if you look at the payment volume growth on a constant dollar basis, it's a plus 2. And on a nominal basis, it's a minus 2. So it's a beat, but it's in the same zip code. And I would say it's a combination of pricing, adjustments and of mix shift.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Thanks.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Greg Smith, Duncan Williams.

GREG SMITH, ANALYST, DUNCAN WILLIAMS: Thanks. You guys quantified in the personnel expense the $33 million of restructuring but correct me if I'm wrong, you said in addition to that there's some one-time additional payments. If that's correct what was the actual? Can you quantify that at all?

JOE SAUNDERS: They're both part of the same thing. They're not additive.

GREG SMITH: That's all in the $33 million?

JOE SAUNDERS: No, there is a restructuring charge that is related to activities that are tied to the merger of the five businesses that occurred back in October of 2007. This is the last quarter that we will be calling out restructuring charges and that's the $30 some million that is below the adjusted line. In the personnel costs that are included in our adjusted results, there is -- Joe mentioned earlier, there are some reorganization costs and some incentive costs that we do not expect to reoccur and therefore, the first quarter, 2010 personnel costs should be -- or all in costs should be much closer to what you saw in Q3 as opposed to Q4.

GREG SMITH: That's clear. Can you just talk a little bit about launching debit in Canada? Do you have a specific timetable for rolling that out and is there anything you need to do from a merchant acceptance standpoint to accept Visa debit in Canada?

BYRON POLLITT: Well, I mean, we are making progress in that regard, and we expect to gain traction and begin issuing cards. I'd say that the buildup of the merchant acceptance will take some time, but I believe that the die is cast and that the effort is underway, and I think over the moderate term it will be quite successful. The first cards that come out in Canada, the first debit cards, with Visa logos, which will come out in the first quarter of 2010, will be dual branded cards. And so it will carry the traditional Canadian debit logo along with the Visa logo. I think it will be a great product. I think it will be a big win, and we're excited about it.

GREG SMITH: And then just one last clarification. Going forward, Byron, you are only going to report GAAP. So, for example, the $17 million this quarter of step up amortization, you won't be adding that back, you will just be reporting GAAP?

BYRON POLLITT: Right. Yes, that's correct.

GREG SMITH: Perfect, thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Chris Mammone, Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

CHRIS MAMMONE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. I guess just going back to your comments about pricing being somewhat higher than the normalized 1 or 2% contribution for fiscal '10, is that all -- is that solely related to the (inaudible) pricing or is there anything else in there contemplated, and maybe give us the timing.

BYRON POLLITT: It's primarily related to the acquirer's fee that we took starting the fourth fiscal quarter 2009.

CHRIS MAMMONE: Okay. And I guess just as a quick follow-up, maybe from where you sit could you maybe comment on what you're seeing early on or expectations for holiday spending trends? Particularly in light of the consumer confidence numbers today.

BYRON POLLITT: So to be helpful, what we've done is given you our real-time spending trends through October 21, and we will let you extrapolate from there.

CHRIS MAMMONE: Okay.

JOE SAUNDERS: That's a traditional holiday season, although there's a lot of Christmas trees around.

CHRIS MAMMONE: If I could just squeeze one more in then, you made some positive comments on anticipating the results of GAO. Has the GAO approached you directly for input?

JOE SAUNDERS: Oh, absolutely. There's absolutely no question about that we've had had quite a bit of communication with the GAO, which is not to say that they haven't had conversations with other people, but absolutely we've had conversations with them when they were in the midst of doing the previous study that they did, and our relationship with them is (inaudible).

JACK CARSKY: At this point we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: The last question does come from Rick Shane, Jefferies. Your line is open.

RICK SHANE, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Hey, Jack, you can give it to someone else, my questions have been asked and answered, thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Very generous, Rick. We've got time for one more.

OPERATOR: The last question does come from James Friedman, Susquehanna, your line is open.

JAMES FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: Thanks, Jack. Thanks, Rick. I'm just trying to test the cyclical versus secular for credit versus debit. As we move through the cycle and economies potentially recover, would you expect debit will continue to grow as a percentage of transaction volume in 2010?

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes, in 2010, absolutely.

RICK SHANE: Okay.

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't think there's any question about that for a lot of reasons. Not all of them beg secular, but secular is certainly part of it.

JAMES FRIEDMAN: Great. That sums it up. Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: And thank you all again for joining us today. If anybody has further follow-up questions, feel free to give myself or Victoria a call. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference call. The call has concluded. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i8150107 : Debit Cards | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i8150108 : Credit Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | goly : Olympics | c32 : Advertising | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091110e5ar002y5
  


 HD
 Q3  2009  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,087 words
   PD
29 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa, Inc's. fiscal third quarter 2009 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

   TD
JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to Visa, Inc's. fiscal third quarter 2009 earnings conference call. With us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast over the Internet. It can be accessed on the investor relations section of our website at www.investor.Visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and as a result of a variety of factors actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning those factors is available in the Company's filings with the SEC which can be accessed through the SEC's website and the investor relations section of the Visa website. For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, related GAAP measures, and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal third-quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the investor relations section of our website. With that, I'll turn the call over to Joe.

JOSEPH SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Jack, and thank you all for joining us. To begin I'm pleased to report that our fiscal third-quarter results were once again consistent with the guidance and expectation we've provided during our second-quarter earnings call. Despite the ongoing challenges in the economy, Visa delivered a solid operational and financial performance as we continued to benefit from our diverse product set, our ongoing commitment to expense management, and, of course, the underlying worldwide secular shift from cash and checks to electronic forms of payment.

Earnings for the third quarter on an adjusted basis were $0.98 per diluted share and were positively impacted by the sale of our 10% equity ownership in VisaNet Brazil. On an adjusted pro forma basis that excludes this gain, Visa earned $0.67 per diluted share, a 14% increase over the year-ago period. This puts us on target toward meeting our full-year adjusted EPS guidance of better than 20% growth. Our net operating revenues in the third quarter were over $1.6 billion. A modest increase over the year-ago period and in line with our previous guidance for low single-digit growth. Importantly we were able to achieve this result by incurring elevated volume and support incentives which were due to the successful re-signing of numerous clients during the quarter, a situation we do not expect to repeat at these levels. Our adjusted operating margin was 51% for the quarter, as we continued to benefit from our ongoing efficiency drive. Finally, adjusted third-quarter net income was $744 million, absent the gain from the VisaNet Brazil sale, it was $507 million, an 11% increase over the year-ago period.

Our fiscal quarter picked up pretty much where we left off in the second quarter. We've seen no signs that a sustained turnaround in the US is occurring. There are, however, positive incremental exceptions which speak to the resiliency of Visa's business model and the value Visa offers around the globe. US payment volume growth declined to a 3% negative rate in the quarter. We continue to be encouraged that since the beginning of the calendar year, payment volume growth has remained in a relatively tight range around a negative 2% to 4%. Of note in the US, the more than 30% decline in the year-over-year price of gasoline continues to make for difficult year-over-year comparables. Absent this headwind in the latest quarter, we would have seen slightly positive growth. However, we still expect this headwind to abate as we move into the first quarter of our fiscal 2010.

On the other hand, in spite of the global nature of the recession, aggregate payment volume growth in our international regions which is primarily driven by credit was positive on a constant currency basis in the March quarter and has remained positive in the high single digits through the end of June, albeit at a lower level than earlier in the year. Total transactions generating data processing fees were $10.3 billion for the June quarter an 8% increase over the prior-year period as the migration to electronic payment continues on a global basis.

As I did last quarter, let me underscore and reiterate several important themes you should take away from our most recent quarter in this call. Our financial performance in fiscal 2009 continues to unfold consistent with our expectations and more importantly, it reflects the appropriate funding of all of our growth initiatives. We believe that we are planting the right seeds in making the proper investments in the business to come out of this recession in an even stronger position than we entered it.

Our business model while not unaffected has proven resilient in the face of today's economic challenges. Transition growth led by debit has continued unabated in part driven by the secular shift of cash to checks to electronic forms of payment. Visa is also driving this global ship in spending behavior through its reliability and accessibility, product innovation, expansion of payment categories, and focused global advertising that boosts consumers to want to transact at the point of the sale with Visa products.

In fact, the early results from our "Go" campaign first rolled out in April of this year are exceeding our initial expectations in terms of increased consumer awareness and brand linkage, providing a level of optimism that the campaign is contributing to our strong debit transaction growth.

On the positive side, based on current trends, we are now anticipating a slightly better fiscal fourth quarter. We believe that the low single digit expectation we previously guided to is more likely to be in the mid-single digit range. This leaves us quite confident in achieving the high single digit revenue range for all of fiscal 2009.

Looking ahead to fiscal 2010, we continue to believe that we can regain our 11% to 15% annual net revenue growth target based on the assumptions we shared with you last quarter. The more favorable year-over-year comparison on gas prices and foreign exchange rates and the start of some recovery in the US economy and cross border volumes by early 2010. We also continue to believe that we are able to achieve our adjusted earnings per share and adjusted operating margin targets even if the revenue growth is somewhat below the guidance range.

Now let me touch on some of the recent successes we've had on the client front. As we discussed with you for several quarters now, consolidations in the banking industry have changed the landscape and market share of many of our largest customers. Given the strength of our client relationships and our products, we anticipated being a net beneficiary of this consolidation, and I can now say with certainty that we have delivered on that expectation. In our third fiscal quarter, we re-signed a significant number of long-term contracts. 11 of which collectively account for 26% of our global volume and 34% of our US volume. Some of these contracts were accelerated renewals and were precipitated by bank consolidation. With these signings, we now have no major contracts up for renewal in the next two years and have over 75% of our worldwide payment volume under contract.

We are obviously pleased about our long-term prospects and are well positioned to execute on our business objectives under various economic scenarios. We are especially grateful for our clients, for their support,and I am personally grateful to our customer sales and support teams around the world for their hard work.

And finally, with respect to our client facing teams, earlier this week I announced a new streamlined management structure to achieve greater alignment between our sales, customer support, marketing, and product development functions. By integrating these business units under a single leader, we expect to speed decision making and increase responsiveness to clients and be better positioned to monitor strategic investment opportunities. With that, let me turn the call over to Byron, who will take you through the detail of our financial results.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. As is now our custom, let me begin with the financial highlights of our fiscal third quarter, and then I'll touch on trends we are seeing for the quarter ending in June, as well as some early results for July.

As Joe previously mentioned, it was a solid fiscal third quarter with strong revenue and earnings growth in line with our guidance in spite of higher than anticipated rebates and incentives. And of course, we benefited from the sale of our equity interest in Visa Net Brazil. Total (inaudible) volume growth for Visa, Inc. through the end of March, 2009 in nominal dollars was a negative 5% over the same quarter in 2008. On a constant dollar basis, however, volume grew 2%.

In the US, payment volumes in the March-ending quarter declined to a negative 3% with debit delivering a solid 5% growth while credit growth was a negative 10%. Proportionally, debit payment volume continued to account for a greater percentage of total US volume, although credit still remains the payment vehicle of choice in the rest of our regions. On a constant dollar basis, rest of world payment volume grew at 10% in the March-ending quarter, moderating from the 14% growth exhibited in the December quarter, but still solidly positive. A further recognition of the secular resiliency of plastic in many emerging and developing economies.

Cross border volume growth first turned negative in the March-ending quarter, posting a 6% decline on a constant dollar basis. Through the end of the June quarter, the rate of decline moderated and ended the period at a negative 8% growth rate. As in prior quarters, the slowdown was broad based. Transactions processed over Visa's network which are reported on a real-time basis totaled $10.3 billion in the fiscal third quarter, an increase of 8% over the similar period a year ago, and an increase from the 6% growth we saw in the previous quarter. Also, revenues from processed transactions, which currently generate approximately 30% of our gross revenue, continued to post solid growth as the underlying secular shift to Visa electronic payments continues. We also saw little variance in average ticket sizes which are down 10% from the prior year period, but on a sequential quarter basis appear to have leveled off.

Turning to the income statement. In the fiscal third quarter, gross revenues of $2 billion were up 5% from the similar period in 2008. As Joe previously mentioned, volume and support incentives were elevated during the quarter due to the renewals of key customer contracts, several of which were accelerated due to bank consolidation. All told, volume and support incentives increased on a year-over-year basis by $70 million to $344 million, representing 17% of gross revenue in the period and 15% of gross revenue year to date. Given these results, we are updating our full-year expectation for volume and support incentives to be at the high end of our 14% to 16% range. We will provide our outlook for 2010 in our fourth-quarter earnings call. Net operating revenues were just over $1.6 billion, a 2% increase over the operating revenues recorded for the third fiscal quarter of 2008 and in line with the revenue guidance we provided last quarter.

Moving to the individual revenue line items, service revenue was $769 million, up 3% over the prior year period, and reflective of still moderating year-over-year payment volumes in all regions for the quarter ending March. Data processing revenue recorded on a current basis was $605 million, up 12% over the prior year period as process transactions continued to post solid growth in the quarter. International transaction revenues also reported on a current quarter basis, were up 2% to $458 million as moderating cross border volumes in the period were offset by some regional strategic pricing modifications. Our adjusted operating margin was 51% in line with our low 50s margin guidance for all of 2009. I'll provide additional color on our future margin expectation in a moment.

On an adjusted basis, operating expenses for the third quarter declined $79 million or 9% year over year, driven by lower costs in personnel, marketing, and professional fees. Our focus on expense reduction continues to be broad based and driven by merger-related efficiencies. As expected, there was an uptick in marketing spend in the quarter on a sequential basis, and we expect to see a similar step-up in the fourth fiscal quarter. Capital expenditures were $69 million in the quarter and included spend on our new data center which will be completely on line by the end of our fiscal year. With year to date capital expenditures running a little above $200 million, we now foresee full-year capital expenditures at around $300 million.

Moving on to the balance sheet. We ended the third quarter in excellent shape with negligible debt and cash, cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash of $6.1 billion. Of this total, $1.6 billion is restricted cash, which represents amounts sufficient to fully pay out the American Express and Discover settlement. It also includes approximately $300 million that is currently uncommitted which was increased to just over $1 billion on the 16th of July in accordance with our previously announced litigation escrow funding event. As we did last December, this funding was simply another way of buying back our stock while providing the added benefit of reducing the eventual B-class overhang when the shares were ultimately unlocked. This latest repurchase will reduce our period-end outstanding share count by 11.6 million shares for the fiscal fourth quarter ending September.

On July 1, we began the process of unlocking up to 30% of the outstanding class B share holdings which will help alleviate some of the share overhang as we approach the ultimate unlock date of March 25, 2011. Through this point in July, we have already had approximately 41% of the potentially available shares requested to be unlocked.

Now let me comment on the trends we are seeing that will impact our results in the final quarter of fiscal 2009. Specifically here in the US, payment volume growth improved slightly from a negative 3% growth rate in the March quarter to a negative 2% growth in the June-ending quarter. Deconstructing this further, credit volume growth ended the period at a negative 10% while debit volume growth continued in positive territory posting a 5% gain. More recently, through the 26th of July, aggregate US payment volume growth was a negative 3%. Credit growth continues at a negative 10%, while debit growth is a positive 4% July month to date. While we still see no signs of a true inflection point, these trends are encouraging. Furthermore they are consistent with the performance we have seen over the past six months suggesting some level of stability.

Outside the US for the quarter ending June, 2009, we expect constant dollar payment volume growth rates to be solidly positive but to have declined modestly from their levels at the end of March. As mentioned earlier, cross-border volumes in constant dollars were down a negative 6% in the March-ending quarter, and in the June quarter have declined to negative 8%. Month to date in July, the rate of decline has improved slightly to a negative 7%. More importantly, the velocity of the downturn has slowed, which is encouraging, but it is still too early to call an inflection point. Process transaction growth ended the June period at 8%, while month toy to date in July it has increased to 9%. This metric continues to be a testament to the strength and resilience of debit as a greater percentage of process transactions are debit based.

Now let me comment on what we see over the coming quarter as far as operating performance is concerned and how it affects our guidance. Based on our fiscal third quarter results and improved fourth-quarter outlook, we now believe fourth-quarter revenue growth is more likely to be in the mid-single digit range, and we are confident in delivering net revenue growth in the high single digits for 2009. And as Joe mentioned, this outlook encompasses a continued negative foreign exchange impact which on a year-over-year basis impacted revenue growth by about 5 percentage points in the third quarter and will likely be in the 4% to 5% range in the fourth quarter.

Given the strong adjusted operating margin exhibited this quarter and our current outlook for 2010, we are adjusting up our 2010 guidance to the low 50% range from the prior range of high 40's to low 50's. Given the uncertain economy, it is always possible that we could see a quarter where the margin dips below 50%, but on a fiscal year basis we are comfortable with the low 50's. Finally, and most importantly as Joe said, we remain on track to deliver 2009 adjusted earning per share growth of greater than 20%. And looking to fiscal 2010, we remain unchanged in our view that given a scenario that includes some recovery in the US economy and in cross border travel combined with more favorable comparisons in gas prices and foreign exchange rates we would expect to exceed 20% earnings per share growth. Of course, we are excluding the Visa Net Brazil gain in this calculation, which won't be replicated in 2010. That concludes my comments, so I'll turn the call back over to Joe.

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Thanks, Byron. Let me conclude with a review of some of the newer initiatives we're involved in. Earlier today we jointly announced with US Bank the creation of a joint venture at Syncada which will provide a global electronic business-to-business global supply chain network. The joint venture expands our commercial product offerings and increases our participation in the B-to-B payment space as we continue to add services that deliver value to our institution clients around the world.

Also, at the end of June, we previously announced that we had entered into a strategic alliance and would be taking an equity stake and monetize the United Kingdom-based leader in the mobile financial services. This provides us with the development partner for our comprehensive suite of mobile services and highlights the fact that we are making the proper investments in technologies that we believe will be relevant to the future of electronic payments. These types of strategic alliances and investments coupled with the numerous partnerships, pilots, and commercialized programs that we are running around the globe today will ensure that Visa and Visa Net remain the electronic payment system of choice for issuers, businesses, governments, and consumers the world over.

We also continue to make very nice headway in the prepaid space, not only here in the US but in a number of regions globally. Prepaid, which is a natural extension of our already successful debit presence is a business that we have been in for quite some time in the US, and in which we are seeing enormous opportunity in internationally. Domestically, we currently run 66 different programs with 38 states for government disbursements. In the healthcare arena, 7 of the top 10 insurance companies offer Visa spending account cards. Other important categories in which we are active and have been quite successful include gift cards, general purpose reloadable cards, and payroll programs to name a few.

In the US, we believe this is a $1 trillion potential market while globally it could be as high as $3 trillion. Stacked up against worldwide Visa payment volumes for the 12 months through March of $2.7 trillion, it's easy to see that even a nominal penetration of this market could be needle moving for us. The largest opportunity globally is penetrating the underbanked segment with general purpose reloadable cards. The underbanked includes both the underserved, for those who don't have access to mainstream financial services, and those that choose for a wide variety of reasons alternative financial services.

In the US, about $80 million individuals fall into the underbanked category. Globally, the underbanked may be a majority of consumers. Our success in debit in the US should provide key advantages as we further penetrate the prepaid space.

Lastly, we continue to make progress on enhancing our already dominant presence on the Internet. While we have a commanding 44% (Company corrected after the conference call) payments volume share on the Internet, our ultimate goal is for an ever increasing number of consumers to recognize that the fastest, safest be and easiest way to transact on line is with a Visa-branded product. To that end, among other upgrades we are on the cusp of rolling out an enhanced consumer platform that will ultimately assist Internet shoppers in three ways.

First, pre-purchase activities like a best-priced search capability. Second, checkout activities like aliasing and auto form fill. And third, post-purchase capabilities like tracking and shipping. We'll have more to say about this in the coming months and look forward to updating you further on our next quarter's call. With that we're ready to take questions. Operator?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Your first question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan. Your line is open.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi. Thanks. Great results. Actually I was hoping to ask two questions. One business and one high-level question. Just first on the incentives, good news on re-signings. Couple of questions here. Any surprises here in term of the demands that you're getting from the banks? Up-front payments or ongoing payments, et cetera? Then secondly, I know you're not going to give us guidance here until fiscal '10, but directionally can we assume that we'll see some relief in rebates in fiscal '10 in relation to fiscal '09, Byron, given the acceleration and the renewals?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Well, this is Joe Saunders. I think that it's clear that we've achieved the objectives that we set out to achieve. I think we've done it well within the parameters of our expectations. I think that the transactions that we've consummated have been good both for our clients and for ourselves. We said in the script that there was a somewhat elevated level of incentives this quarter as a result of that that we would expect to continue. So I -- I think that everything that is going to happen in 2010 is pretty well embraced in the reaffirmation of our guidance that we made earlier in the call.

BYRON POLLITT: And I would just add that the incentive levels going forward will be -- should be more a function of the growth rates in the client portfolios which are directly linked to the level of incentives we report.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay. Got it. I think it's a good outcome for sure. Joe, just wanted to ask obviously a lot of focus out there on the regulatory risk, specifically, around interchange and the possibility some reductions there. I'm not suggesting that anything's going to happen, but just wanted to ask under a hypothetical scenario where interchange is regulated and let's say it's cut in a meaningful way, what kind of impact would that have on Visa? Specifically, would you expect your fees to indirectly come under some pressure as well, and also what kind of impact could it have on volumes and the whole idea of the secular growth of car-based payments? Would that have some influence on that, as well? We obviously get that question quite a bit from investors.

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Well, first of all, I don't think that the situation that you describe is going to happen. We're confident that the legislators and regulators understand that interchange is a pro-competitive structure, that it exists in every payment system around the globe and where there has been governmental intervention, that the consumer is the one that has suffered. I think that it's also pretty obvious that merchants get for a fairly reasonable cost, they get tremendous value. That they get guaranteed payments, they get increased speed, they get better security, they get ticketless just to name a few. And our discussions in Washington, DC, suggest that the legislators now appreciate that there would probably be a significant negative, unintended consequence from any congressional action on interchange.

That being said, there are actions that could occur in interchange which I do not believe would substantially affect us as it relates to our guidance or our notion of where Visa is going in the future. I suppose that if they eliminated interchange, which no one has ever even come close to suggesting in any scenario that it would certainly create a reluctance by financial institutions to support electronic transactions to the extent that they do today. But our biggest risk to the extent that there is a risk lies in the diminution of volume. I mean, if our volume were to go down, then obviously our -- our revenues would go down. But once again, I mean, I don't think that this will happen. Secondly, you're talking about the United States and our volume is growing more outside of the United States than within the United States right now. So there's a whole number of factors that you'd have to get your arms around. And I think in the end you'd feel pretty good about Visa and Visa's prospects.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Very good. Thanks for that, Joe.

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Yes.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Bruce Harting with Barclays. Your line is open.

BRUCE HARTING, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Do you still feel as strongly as you did in the previous quarter conference call about the dollar, the currency impact and the gas price impact, and when you project the increase from this year to next year in terms of revenue growth and you mentioned that this year you still expect to achieve high single-digit -- despite 500 basis points of currency impact, is the key assumption that the currency impact goes away completely next year and you get a tailwind?

BYRON POLLITT: Joe, let me respond to that. So we do have a good measurement of this impact, and just to repeat, we feel that it was 500 basis points impact this quarter, this just completed quarter. We estimate 400 to 500 basis points. We hedged 17 currencies, so -- and we have been hedging on a rolling basis throughout this past year. So we will -- we are confident that we will be able to bring a level of stability to our -- to FX rates in the coming year, which when compared to the rates that we've experienced this past year give us a high degree of confidence that the headwind that we've experienced this year will be substantially mitigated. Second, with regards to gas prices, the June -- the month of June hit the high point in terms of average price per gas for gallon of gas. We're starting by the first quarter, by November, we should have actually in October and November, we are tracking to have a much more favorable comp here with regards to gas prices. And all the forecasts with regard to future gas pricing support that. So with regards to our guidance going forward, we're -- on those two factors, we're pretty comfortable.

BRUCE HARTING: Thanks. And Byron, the numbers you gave for July, you said that, despite the fact that you were still well into negative territory, you feel encouraged. Is that because you -- you say you're encouraged because unemployment keeps going higher, and yet these numbers seem to be stabilizing despite that? And do you think the issuing banks have done most of the adjusting that they -- the process, A, to the weakening economy and higher unemployment, and B, the legislation, do you think from what you've seen and in terms of looking at your slide on credit cards outstanding, that, where are we in that process by the issuing banks of downsizing the credit card portfolios in favor of perhaps more debit?

BYRON POLLITT: Let me focus on the first part of your question. What's giving us confidence. And the take here is that we had -- we had guided to low single-digit revenue growth in the third quarter. We have now moved that up to mid-single-digit guidance in the fourth quarter. What's giving us a little bit more bullish view. First of all, as you recall, our service fees are booked on a one-quarter lag basis, and our service fees directly relate to payment volume that -- and in that regard, the payment volume for the June quarter is substantially known. So 40% of our revenue for the fourth quarter related to service fees is now highly estimable. What we have seen is that payment volume, since the growth rate in payment volume in the US dropped to minus 2, a little better than what we thought, and the rest of the world is holding up a bit better than what we had forecasted. That's service fees.

On cross border what we had noticed is that not knowing what the trajectory was going to be, we made certain assumptions. The June quarter, ending quarter went to minus 8. We had originally forecasted something that was a bit lower than that, and what we're seeing in July with the month of July nearly complete we're at minus 7, so a bit better and then turning to transactions. If you look at the trajectory in quarter two, we had 6% transaction growth. In quarter three, June-ending quarter, we had plus 8. With July just about in the record books, we're at plus 9. So when you put those three perspectives together, that's really the impetus for our change in view and why we've moved it from low single digits up to mid-single digits.

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Yes. The only thing I'd add to that is to continue to remember that a lot of our transactional increases are being driven by our debit volume. Not our credit volume. The credit volume is already off substantially. And none of our projections suggest that it is going to come back, come roaring back in any way, shape, or form. And then finally we keep reminding everyone that our international transactions, our international credit volume is growing.

BRUCE HARTING: Thanks. Thank you. Could -- Byron, were you going to comment on that other -- about the issuing banks or that's it?

BYRON POLLITT: That's it.

BRUCE HARTING: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). The next question does come from David Hochstim Buckingham Research.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Joe, could you just provide a little bit more color on the operational/organizational changes that you announced this week and sort of what benefit do you expect to realize in terms of product rollout and interaction with customers? And what Mr. Morris will be doing.

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Well, so let me -- let me start off -- to answer the first part of your question, we are -- we're putting the product development function in with the marketing and sales. And I think it will make the organization more effective. And I think that Hans would definitely agree with that. As it relates to Hans, Hans has made a substantial contribution to this organization.

It's really something else when you think about where we started out and where we are now and his contributions to the IPO, his contributions to the relationship with Visa Europe, his contributions to organizing our international organization. So I'd say that -- I'd say that as time went on, his notion of the succession or how that might go changed somewhat, and that led the conversations about the organization that we've just talked about, that he was fully supportive of. So I think that we both decided that he'd be best served -- he decided that he'd be best served by pursuing some other opportunities. And so I'm a huge supporter of his, and I'm sure that he'll be quite successful. He is on our payroll until December. He is contributing on a daily basis. He's sitting right here. And I see him shaking his head, and I don't see anything--.

HANS MORRIS, PRESIDENT, VISA INC.: Nodding my head. Nodding my head.

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: He's nodding his head. So I -- I'd say that that's what the -- that's what the answer is.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: Okay. And in terms of just operations, I mean, is this speed time to market in products or approved customer adoption--?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: We have a commitment to our investors that we're going to keep refining our model, and that we're going to continually become a better Company, that we're going to become quicker to market. We're going to be a little bit more decisive. We're going to be very introspective about what we invest in and what we don't invest in. We're going to be looking to the future to make sure that we do things appropriately. And that we don't get the rug pulled out from under us two or three years from now. And so I think this is -- we're talking about part of the process here. I mean, this isn't a revolution. It's part of an evolution. And so far, I think it's gone quite well, and I would expect it to continue.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thanks. Byron, just one point of clarification. Is the guidance for fiscal fourth quarter is that a gross number or a net number for revenues?

BYRON POLLITT: Net revenue growth, mid single digits.

JULIO QUINTEROS: Got it. Then 400 to 500 basis points of currency drive, correct?

BYRON POLLITT: Correct.

JULIO QUINTEROS: Got it. Just in terms of marketing initiatives and spend looking to the World Cup next year, how do we think about how quickly that has to ramp up in terms of spending, or is that spending behind you? Just as a major initiative next year, how do -- how will that ramp through your advertising marketing numbers?

BYRON POLLITT: So to be helpful on this, what we've said in our opening remarks is that there is a -- there was a marketing, a bit of a marketing lift in this quarter, a bit of a marketing lift expected in the fourth quarter. But no call out relative to World Cup because we're lapping an Olympic year, and there are natural tradeouts that we make in substitutions as we have premiere events to marquee. So no call out on World Cup and you've got some guidance to finish up the year in marketing.

JULIO QUINTEROS: Got it. Then lastly on the -- if I try to sort of bridge the gap between the volume assumptions that you've already shared with us, the currency, any way to get a sense on what the implied pricing would be ither on the cross border side or on the other side of your business of card services or data processing fees?

BYRON POLLITT: I think what we've said was we're -- we're in the later stages of the more step function-type pricing adjustments. And that this will be a more modest contributor going forward. That we'll grow this business the old-fashioned way, which is through payment volume and transaction growth.

JULIO QUINTEROS: Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Craig Maurer, Calyon Securities. Your line is open.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CALYON SECURITIES: Good evening. One question about Visa Europe. We're hearing through our contacts in Europe that Visa Europe is really playing up the sort of independence card, we're owned by European banks, fur European banks. So we're not associated with the big, bad US companies, so you should sign with us. Oh, and by the way, we'll pay for your conversions. But the European banks are a little concerned that there is the option to sell themselves back to Visa, Inc. and that that might be coming quickly if they do a conversion. I was just wondering if there's any additional conversations with Visa Europe regarding them becoming part of Visa, Inc.?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Most of the time when I think about them exercising the put, I think about it because somebody asks me about it. But other than that, I don't think about it much. There is nothing in the relationship between ourselves and Visa Europe that would suggest that they're about ready to exercise the put or even thinking about it. I think that we're running the Company as Visa, Inc. which is what we've always intended to. And that's about as far as I can go right now.

CRAIG MAURER: Okay. If I could just follow up. Have you seen any traction in your money transfer initiatives? As I know the network is capable now of processing money transfers on any Visa card to any terminal.

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: We'll be talking a lot more about that when we get into our next quarter call and some of our guidance for the future. I mentioned the prepaid cards which fit into the whole notion of money transfer in a big way. It's part of our plans. I'm sure you've -- you've seen that we have associated ourselves with Moneygram and Western Union. So there are the beginnings of looking at this very carefully and deciding where we want to go, but 'm just not ready to talk about it publicly.

CRAIG MAURER: Okay. Thanks, Joe.

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Yes.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Dan Perlin, RBC. Your line is open.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. I just had a couple quick questions. The first of which is as you think about growth in some of the emerging markets where you maybe don't have as large a market presence, and notoriety, have you considered acquiring processors or joint ventures with processors in those markets? And would you be open to that?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Well, yes.

DAN PERLIN: Should we expect something in the next couple of quarters?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: We've talked about it, we thought about it, and we've looked at it.

DAN PERLIN: Is it something that you would be probably disposed to doing?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Well, I wouldn't think about it and look at it and talk about it if I wasn't somewhat disposed to doing it.

DAN PERLIN: Okay. Let me ask you another question. Do you think you got to have global consumer credit expansion in order to continue to drive growth there given that such a credit-focused rest of world, or can you continue to kind of penetrate debit in those markets using some of your tricks from the US?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Well, I think it is our intention to kind of trade markets with the debit product. I also think it's important, though, to make sure that everybody understands that the credit market outside the United States is not exactly the same as the credit market in the United States. And in fact, there are many credit products outside the United States that are probably -- that probably have more similarity to a debit product than you might expect. So it's a -- it's a little bit different. But I think we're well positioned along the entire spectrum, all the way from preloaded cards to premium credit cards, as it relates to product offerings and our willingness and ability to start penetrating other markets.

BYRON POLLITT: And I would just add to that that with regards to credit out the United States that we did have a solid growth rate for the March-ending quarter, and we expect to have positive growth in credit outside the United States all on a constant dollar basis in the quarter ending in June, as well.

DAN PERLIN: And then just lastly and then I'll be done. On the incentive fees, around the time of the IPO you really said that that was a number that actually should trend up because it was primarily a US phenomenon and using that to get contracts, and as you went international you were going to start to use it. What I'm hearing from you guys today is that that is abating a bit. I'm wondering if there's a change of tone to using incentive fees as you go abroad?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: As we put more client under multi-year contract which is a strategy that we support, with contracts comes an agreement to offer incentives. And so it is a continuing strategy of ours over time to have more clients under multi-year contract and, therefore, there would be more -- there would be more clients' revenue that would be subject to incentives. That strategy was articulated at the time of the IPO, and it's still a strategy that we're pursuing today.

DAN PERLIN: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Jason Kupferberg with UBS. Your line is open.

JASON KUPFERBERG, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Wanted to start with a clarification in the quarter itself. The $0.67 pro forma EPS number, what tax rate was behind that? Was that a normalized tax rate, or I think the GAAP tax rate was more in the 43%-ish range related to the gain on sale. Can you clarify that?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes. The $0.67 was at a more normalized tax rate because the boost in our tax rate for the quarter was due to the Visa Net Brazil transaction because of some capital gains taxes and the tax environment specific to Brazil, we ended up experiencing about 4 percentage points higher tax rate in the quarter. When you back that out, so that -- to go from $0.98 backed out on an adjusted basis down to $0.67, when you remove that transaction, you would then go to the more normalized tax rate which was trending at about 39.5.

JASON KUPFERBERG: Okay. And that was the basis for the $0.67?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes.

JASON KUPFERBERG: Okay, okay. That's helpful. And then just to to pick up on an earlier question as far as confidence and visibility on the low end of the 11% to 15% net revenue growth range for next year, you talked about the currency and gas components of that. Obviously the two other underlying assumptions you've discussed for a while are the broader US economy and cross border. Seems like those numbers are kind of stable but bouncing around a little bit. Can you just talk about your relative level of comfort with those two variables and how important they might be versus the other two variables in terms of actually getting yourself into this 11% to 12% range or so for next year?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Well, I think the specific words that I used in the scripts were we would start to see some movement. So we don't expect any significant positive movement in either the economy or cross-border transactions, although we do expect them to stabilize and start to move up very modestly. And as long as that happens in the first quarter, early second quarter, I'm quite confident we'll get to where we're going.

JASON KUPFERBERG: Okay. So we don't really need to see this "Positive inflection" point any time real soon to still get you into this range it sounds like?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: No, it doesn't have to happen next month.

JASON KUPFERBERG: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Jim Kissane, Banc of America. Your line is open.

JIM KISSANE, ANALYST, BAS-ML: Great. Thanks. Hey, Byron, what portion of the incentives in the quarter were more one time and what portion is recurring? And maybe on a more normal basis, what portion would be one time and what portion is recurring?

BYRON POLLITT: Jim, I -- as you can appreciate, we don't discuss that level of granularity on the incentive. We've tried to be helpful here by saying it was somewhat elevated given the unusual high level of contract activity that was successfully completed in the quarter. And we'll be -- we'll look forward to giving more guidance around the incentive levels when we finish up the fourth quarter and we give you an outlook for -- a more informed outlook for fiscal year '10.

JIM KISSANE: Okay. Any change in the average term of the contracts under renewals?

BYRON POLLITT: I would say they're -- up -- at the time of the IPO, I would say the most typical contract length was five years. I would see -- I would say we're starting to see some increasing interest going a bit beyond five. To say that it's actually moved the average might be too strong a term. But we are seeing some contracts now that -- substantive contracts that are going beyond five years.

JIM KISSANE: Okay. Great. Thanks, Byron.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Tim Willi, Wells Fargo. Your line is open.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Thanks. Good afternoon. I was wondering -- a question about US debit. If I look at the last six to seven quarters sort of boiling it down to the -- the spend and transactions per card, I think conventional wisdom would have been that as the economy suffered, people would switch spending habits from credit to debit. And looking at sort of year over year growth in transactions per card, even dollars per card spent, I -- it doesn't look like that has occurred. So I'm wondering if there is something regarding inactive or just newer debit cards on the US platform that have not quite matured in terms of the user getting more comfortable with them, and as well if you could talk about any kind of strategies or discussions with your banking partners in the US about trying to drive higher utilization on debit in the face of what you've articulated about credit, that it's essentially probably going nowhere in the US.

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Well, okay. Wow. That's a loaded question. Let me start with the -- let me start with the back end of that. First of all, we are working to drive debit both with our clients, and that is the entire basis of our -- our media campaign in the United States this year. I mean, everything -- everything that we're doing in the media is debit centric and is predicated on using debit cards. I'd say that you're going to see debit cards be a very, very good story going forward. I think you'll see the number of transactions that people use their cards for going up. I think that we continue to see more cards being put into the market and so I -- all the right things are happening on the debit front.

Now, I want to say one other thing. I didn't say the credit card market in the United States was dead. I didn't say that. I said that we were not anticipating that we were going to get much velocity from the credit card market in the next 12 months. I think that as a result of the Credit Card Act and some of the issues that financial institutions have with the loan quality of their portfolio that it would just be naive to think that there wouldn't be some reflection as it related to that product and how it was going to be issued and how it was going to be used. But I certainly don't believe and -- unless any of my clients are telling me differently that the credit card is dead.

TIM WILLI: Okay, I appreciate that. Just to follow up on that debit question then. Do you think it's a matter of just more consumer awareness, or are there key verticals and other areas of spending in the US where there just needs to be more merchant acceptance to get that spend up on debit? Or is this really just more and more advertising and the banks getting to those consumers more effective that use this card as much as you can?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Well, I guess I'd have to look at the exact number you're looking at because when I look at the numbers, the transaction -- our transaction volume is up 9% in the last quarter. It is mostly coming from the debit sector. We have three times as many debit transactions as credit card transactions, and have for a little while now and for the first time in the history of Visa, last quarter the dollar volume of debit card transactions exceeded that of credit card transactions. So my view into this product is a pretty positive view. And I expect that to continue. I think you might want to pick this question up with Jack Carsky. Because I'm just -- you kind of caught me a little bit off balance here because I'm not sure we're talking the same language.

TIM WILLI: Okay. I appreciate that. We'll do that. Thanks.

JACK CARSKY: At this point we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: The last question does come from Don Fandetti with Citi, your line is open.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITI: Hi, Joe. Clearly the US seems to have stabilized in terms of credit. Looks like the international growth rates are still positive but moderating. I was just curious sort of what your view is on the insight on the non-US consumer? Are we pretty close to where you think those growth rates will start stabilizing?

JOSEPH SAUNDERS: Well, that's -- that's a little bit difficult to call. The fact of the matter is there have been issues, economic issues all over the world. And the fact that the international credit card volume is growing has as much to do with the secular shift from cash and checks to plastic as it does with a consumer's use of credit, as you might think about it in the United States. So I think that this has a while. I think this has a while to play out. And I think that we're continuing to get traction in different parts of the world. And I think that, I don't think that's going to stop. So I think we'll have a pretty -- I think we'll have a pretty positive story as time goes on. And I guess the best I can do is to end all of this is to tell you that we're cautiously optimistic that things are getting somewhat better and not somewhat worse.

DON FANDETTI: Okay. Thanks.

JACK CARSKY: Thank you all for joining us today. If anybody has any follow up questions, feel free to either call myself or Victoria. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i8150107 : Debit Cards | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i8150108 : Credit Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gpersf : Personal Finance | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c184 : Joint Ventures | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090812e57t003eo
  


 HD
 Q2  2009  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,081 words
   PD
29 April 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Incorporation fiscal second quarter 2009 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Investor Global Relations. Mr. Carsky you may begin.

JACK CARSKY, IR, VISA INC.: Thanks Jose. Good afternoon and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal second quarter 2009 earnings conference call. With us today's are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chair and Chief Executive Officer and Byron Pollitt, Chief Financial Officer. This is currently being web cast live over the internet. It can accessed on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the web cast will be archived on our site for 30 days. A power point deck containing highlights of today's commentary is posted to our Web site, prior to this call..

   TD
Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. And as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning these factors is available on the Company's filings with the SEC, and can be accessed who the SEC's Web site, or the investor relations section of the Visa web site.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, related GAAP measures and other information required by REG B of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal second earnings press release. This release can be accessed through the IR section of our web site. With that, I will turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks Jack and thanks to all of you for joining us this afternoon. To begin with, I am very pleased to report that our fiscal second quarter results were consistent with the guidance and expectations we provided, in our last quarter's earnings call. Despite the challenging global economy, Visa delivered strong operational and financial performance, benefiting from its diverse product set, our intense focus on expense management, and the underlying world wide secular shift from cash and checks to electronic forms of payment, which continues unabated. Our operating net revenues in the second quarter were over $1.6 billion. An increase of 13% over the year-ago period, and right in line with our guidance this quarter.. Our adjusted operating margin of 55%, which benefited from our ongoing efficiency drive, was solid as well and exceeded our stated full-year guidance of the mid-to-high 40% range.

Finally, an adjusted second quarter net income of $553 million, was 38% greater than the year-ago period..

Looking forward from a macro standpoint, the world economy continues to slow and while Visa is resilient it is not immune. Aggregate payment volume growth in our international regions in the December quarter were a positive mid -- double digit rate and preliminary volume trends through march suggest only a modest decline since then. This of course will be reflected in our fiscal third quarter service revenues but there continues to be regional bright spots around the globe where the trend are holding up even more substantially. In the U.S. specifically, payment volume growth declined to an approximately 1% negative rate in the December quarter, and we saw little change through the March quarter. We are encouraged that in aggregate, over the five-month period through April, we have seen some stabilization in the U.S. payment volume trend. Of course, the more than 30% rate of decline in the year-over-year price of gasoline has resulted in difficult year-over-year comparables which will continue for the next few months before finally abating as we move into fiscal 2010.

And importantly all of the results we achieved to date are in spite of foreign currency head winds which we also expect to abate by the beginning of fiscal 2010.. The underlying resilience of our business was evident in the contribution of debit products in the U.S. which Visa pioneered in the mid 1990s. Debit in the US posted growth in each month of the March quarter as well as through the month of April. The continued strength of debit is attributable in part to that product's strong correlation with nondiscretionary spend categories which are holding up relatively well in the face of a tough economy.. In fact, in the quarter ending December, for the first time in Visa's history, U.S. debit payment volumes eclipsed that of credit. An important milestone in the history of our business, and a testament to the diversity of our product.

Process transaction growth was resilient as well, posting gains of 6% through the end of March, with even better performance through the end -- or through this point in the month of April..

Before touching on our near-term outlook let me underscore several important themes that I think you should take away from this call. Our financial performance in fiscal 2009 is unfolding consistent with our expectations and guidance and reflects appropriate funding of all of our growth initiatives. Our business model has proven resilient in the face of today's economic challenges. Transaction growth led by debit has continued unabated in part driven by the secular shift from cash and checks to electronic forms of payment. This global shift in spending behavior is also being driven by Visa through product innovation, expansion of payment categories and focused global advertising that moves consumers to want to transact at the point of sale with Visa products. With the global economy having some impact on revenue growth, Visa's management teamed remains focused on delivering the margins and the adjusted earnings per share growth outline during our IPO road show. We have therefore accelerated merger related cost efficiencies which have fully offset shortfalls in revenue growth. In the near term, the continuing challenge in cross border payments, payment volumes, foreign exchange and gas price headwinds and lap in price increases will have a negative effect on the back half of our fiscal year. For this reason, we still expect low single digit revenue growth in our fiscal third quarter, although the fourth quarter should now be slightly higher, based on several factors, including planned strategic pricing action, recently announced.

With this in mind, we are confident in achieving the high single-digit revenue range for all of fiscal 2009..

With the anticipated contribution from expense savings, we are on target to meet our 2009 diluted earnings per share growth guidance of greater than 20%. Given the fiscal year-to-date results in our adjusted operating margin, we are taking the full-year 2009 guidance up modestly from the current mid-to-high 40% range to the low 50s range. Additionally, we are taking the 2010 adjusted operating margin to the high 40% to low 50% range. Byron will touch on this further in a moment.

Looking ahead to fiscal 2010 we're not changing the outlook we shared with you last quarter. We continue to be cautiously optimistic that we can regain our 11% to 15% revenue growth target. Assuming some recovery in the U.S. economy, and cross border volumes by early 2010 and we expected more favorable year-over-year gas prices and foreign currency exchange rates. And we expect to achieve our earnings per share and adjusted operating margin targets, even if revenue growth is somewhat below our guidance range.. And finally, we continue to focus on client service, given the historic times in the banking sector and borderer economy. Consultations in the banking industry may continue, and Visa expects to be the beneficiary of this activity. We will do so by remaining committed to providing our clients with the products and programs that move their businesses forward, and add value to their customers. Debit and our prepaid platform as well as money transfer and new technologies for payment at the point of sale will continue to differentiate Visa from the rest of the payments industry.

With that, let me turn the call over to Byron, who will take you through the financial results and our current thinking on financial guidance.

BYON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. As is now our custom, let me begin with the financial highlights of our fiscal second quarter. And then I will touch on trends we're seeing for the quarter ending in March as well as some early results for April. As Joe mentioned, it was a solid fiscal second quarter, with strong revenue, and earnings growth. Remembering that service revenues which represent 41% of our gross revenue, are reported on a one-quarter lag. Total payment volume growth for Visa Inc. through the end of December, 20, 2008, in nominal dollars was a negative 1%, falling to $675 billion over the same quarter, in 2007. In the U.S. debit delivered a solid 6% growth while credit was a negative 7%. And in the December quarter, for the first time in our history, U.S. debit payment volume eclipsed that of credit volume although credit still remains the payment vehicle of choice, internationally. On a constant dollar basis, rest of world payment volume grew at 14%, moderating from the 22% growth exhibited in the September quarter but still solidly positive. A further recognition of the secular resiliency of plastic in many emerging and developing economies.

As a reminder, cross border volume growth in the December ending quarter slowed to zero on a constant dollar basis, down from low double digits in the prior period. The slowdown was broad-based. Through the end of March, it continued its decline and ended the period at a negative 6% constant dollar growth rate.. Excluding Visa Europe, globally, total cards outstanding for the period ending December, grew 8% with over 1.7 billion cards carrying the Visa brand. Credit cards grew 2% to 813 million cards, while debit rose 14% to 905 million cards. Debit card growth primely in the United States was positively affected by prepaid gift card programs that are obviously very popular around the December holiday. International card growth of 13%, remains very healthy as well. Overall, credit card growth in the U.S. has slowed as a result of retrenchment in credit card marketing programs, but this slowdown is being more than offset, by gains internationally..

Transactions processed over the Visa network which are reported on a real time basis ,totaled $9.4 billion in the fiscal second quarter an increase of 6% over the similar period, a year ago. It is important to reiterate a point that we made last quarter, and Joe touched on earlier. While payment volume and average ticket sizes have continued to moderate, our process transactions which represent approximately 28% of our gross revenue continue to post solid growth as the underlying secular shift to electronic payments and more precisely to Visa continues. Turning to the income statement. In the second quarter, gross revenues of $1.9 billion were up 8% from a similar period in 2008. Volume and support sensitives decreased by $43 million to $295 million, representing 15% of gross revenue, in line with our full-year expectation in the range of 14% to 16% of gross revenue. As you know, volume and support sensitives are recognized based on current quarter results. The year-over-year decline, was the result of lower, 2009, fiscal second quarter payment volume growth, as well as the effect of a one time $70 million nonrecurring charge, in last year's quarter, Partially offset by new contractual adjustments in the current quarter.

Net operating revenues were just over $1.6 billion, a 13% increase over the operating revenues reported for the second fiscal quarter of 2008, and right in line with the guidance we gave last quarter. Moving to the individual revenue line item, service revenue was $804 million up 2% over the prior year period. And reflective of moderating year-over-year payment volumes in all regions, for the quarter ending December 31. That data processing revenue reported on a current quarter basis was $534 million, up 10% over the prior year, as processed transaction growth remained solid. Data processing revenue reported on a current quarter basis was $544 million, up 10% over the prior year, as processed transaction growth remained solid. International transaction revenues, also reported on a current quarter basis, were up 18% to $446 million as moderating cross border volumes in the period were off set by competitive pricing modifications enacted in the fiscal third quarter of 2008. Our adjusted operating margin, was approximately 55%. above our stated mid-to-high 40% guidance, as Joe mentioned. The increase in margin was due to lower volume and support incentives which are recognized in the current quarter, as well as certain expenses shifting from our second fiscal quarter into the back half of the year. I will provide additional color on our future margin expectations in a moment..

On an adjusted basis, operating expenses for the second quarter declined $38 million or 5% year-over-year. Driven by lower costs across the board with the exception of network and EDP. Our focus on expense reduction is broad-based and is driven by merger-related efficiencies. All of our long-term product investments are being prudently funded. While some expenses will increase in the back half of the year, such as marketing, these were anticipated and are fully consistent with our guidance.

Capital expenditures were $68 million in the quarter, approximately $33 million of which were dedicated to the build-out of our new data center. The center was partially brought on line in March and will be fully operational by the end of our fiscal fourth quarter. We anticipate the associated depreciation and amortization costs in the second half of the year to be about $12 million.

Moving on to the balance sheet. We ended the second quarter in excellent shape, with very little debt, and cash, cash equivalents, investments and restricted cash of $5.8 billion. Of this total, $2.1 billion is restricted cash, which represents amounts sufficient to fully pay out the American Express and Discover settlements. We also recently announced our intent to unlock up to 30% of the outstanding class C share holdings, which will help alleviate some of the share overhang as we approach the ultimate unlock date of March 25th, 2011. Conversion and sale of these shares will increase our public float but will have no diluted impact on our shares outstanding. As mentioned in our press release, we will shortly be filing a shelf registration, that will allow us the flexibility to quickly access the capital markets, with either equity, or debt instruments. The proceeds of any future transaction could be used for a variety of reasons, but at this point in time, we have no plans or reasons to go to market. This action is nothing more than pro active capital structure planning.

Now let me comment on the trends we are seeing that will impact our results in the coming quarter, and fiscal 2009. As we said last quarter, we expect the back half of 2009 to be more challenging from a revenue standpoint. And this continues to be our view. Specifically, here in the U.S,. payment volume growth has declined from a negative 1% growth rate, in the December quarter, to a negative 2% growth in the March quarter.. Further credit volume growth ended the period at a negative 10%, while Debit volume growth continued in positive territory posting a 5% gain. Deconstructing this further, credit volume growth ended the period at a negative 10%, while debit volume growth continued in positive territory posting a 5% gain. More recently through the 28th of April, aggregate US payment volume growth has trended back to a negative 1% growth rate. Credit growth continues at a negative 10%. while debit growth has regained some momentum, rising from a positive 5%, in the March period, to a positive 7% April month-to-date. Regardless of the potential impacts of an Easter shift, these growth rates -- these growth trends are encouraging, and consistent, with performance we have seen over the past four months. As further perspective, certain categories of spend, like gasoline, airline, and lodging, continue to be challenged especially as they relate to credit volume. On the other hand, recurring bill pay, quick service restaurants, health care, and supermarkets, continue to grow very nicely. And these categories tend to favor debit over credit, even more so in this environment, which is the foundation of some of the resilience of that product.

On balance, as Joe mentioned earlier, over the past several months, we are seeing in aggregate, some stabilization in the U.S. payment volume growth trend. Having said that, we do not know for certain whether we're seeing an inflection point. Outside the U.S. for the quarter ending March 2009, we expect constant dollar payment volume growth rates to be solidly positive, but to decline modestly from their levels, at the end of December. As mentioned earlier,cross border volumes and constant dollars were flat in the December ending quarter and in the March ending quarter have declined to negative mid single digits. Month-to-date in April, we have seen similar results. Processed transaction growth ended the March period at 6%, while month-to-date in April, it has reached 9%. Also a testament to the strength and resilience of debit as a greater percentage of process transactions are debit based.

Now let me comment on what we see over the coming year, as far as our operating performance is concerned. And how it may effect our current guidance. Based on our second quarter results and our improved balance of year outlook, we are confident about delivering net revenue growth in the high single digits. And as Joe said, we continue to expect revenue growth in the third quarter in the low single digits while the fourth is projected to be modestly higher. Also, as a reminder, this second half outlook encompasses a more pronounced negative foreign exchange impact, which on a year-over-year basis, is now expected to reduce revenue growth, by about 4 percentage points in each quarter.

Given the strong adjusted operating margin exhibited this quarter, we are adjusting up our 2009 guidance, to the low 50% range. For 2010, recognizing the general uncertainty around the economy, our attention to continue investing for future growth and the impact of higher depreciation and amortization expenses, we are moving our guidance from mid-to high 40s to the high 40s low 50s range. Most importantly, and to reiterate Joe's statement, we remain on track to deliver our guidance of annual adjusted diluted earnings per share growth of greater than 20% for 2009.

Looking to 2010, given a scenario that includes some recovery in the U.S. economy and in cross border travel, combined with more favorable comparisons in gas prices and foreign exchange rates, we would expect to exceed 20% earnings per share growth. That concludes my comments. So I will turn the call back over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS: Okay, thanks Byron. Let me conclude by saying that while the economy continues to present challenges, Visa remains in a strong position to weather the storm and more importantly, realize operating advantages when the economy finally does turn around. We have and continue to lay the groundwork for an effective and efficient expense structure. We're making the proper investments in products and processes to drive incremental growth in the future and most importantly we continue to work with our clients to provide them the best possible credit and debit products and processing solutions to meet their business needs. Over the longer term, the success of these initiatives will be recognized in the strength of our relationships with our clients and the growth our business with each of them wherever they are located around the world. Thank you all. And of course, thanks Jack, for introducing me. With that, we will take any questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). The first question comes from Jason Custoberg with UBS. You may ask your question.

JASON CUSTOBERG, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks and good afternoon. I want to start with a question on the margins. Obviously nice to see the raise in the outlook there. So, I guess it begs the question of thinking sort of longer term beyond 2010. I mean, how high can the margins in this business theoretically go, understanding that obviously the business scales very well. You have accomplished significant cost takeout that should be even more beneficial when volumes reaccelerate. But at the same time people shouldn't expect huge pricing power to prevail indefinitely and you're continuing to invest in the long-term growth of the business. So how should investors think about the longer term margin potential of this business in your opinion?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I don't think we're ready to predict that at this particular point in time. I think that in the current situation, in the current environment, in the current economy, there are things that we probably are doing somewhat less aggressively because they simply aren't things that would gain traction right now. It certainly doesn't make sense to over advertise in an environment where there is going to be less credit usage for instance. I mean, as an example. But there is a lot of other things. And so I think we have to carefully consider that. But we are obviously focused on expense control and efficiency, and we will never stop focusing on that, in the future. So, we will see.

JASON CUSTOBERG: Are you guys thinking about the broad impact on the card industry, potentially if some of the currently proposed legislation on the non-interchange side end up becoming law, especially if this end up including some of the more restrictive elements that potentially go beyond the Fed UDEP regulations that were approved in late '08? I mean is some of that factoring into your thinking as your outlining the top line outlook for us in the fiscal 2010?

JOE SAUNDERS: Anything that effects our clients, ultimately, did ultimately affects us. We're as concerned as they are. That whatever transpires, is done thoughtfully and in collaboration. We think that, we do not believe that what is happening, or what will happen, will mark the end of the credit or the debit card business in the United States, and I am reasonably certain that we will continue to see increase in volumes as the economy recovers. But these are troublesome times. And there are many many issues out there. And while we are not directly affected by UDEP or some of the other, some of the proposed regulations in bills that are attached to it are somewhat of the opinions that our president has, we are concerned and ultimately, ultimately, impacted. So we're going to keep our eye on that and as I said, try to help make sure that it gets thoughtfully enacted.

JASON CUSTOBERG: Okay. Makes sense, thanks guys for the color.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Julio Canteros with Goldman Sachs. You may ask your question.

JULIO CONTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Byron, can I start with you just real quick on just trying to reconcile the commentary for cross border volumes in the March quarter relative to the revenue growth you posted there. I think it was roughly 18%. I think you said it was flat but revenue growth was 18%. Is the Delta between that zero and 18% purely pricing, on some of the adjustments that you're making there.

BYON POLLITT: Yes, we are -- that's right. We are annualizing out. This will be the last quarter of annualizing price adjustment that were taken in the third fiscal quarter of 2008. So you're seeing the last impacts of that annualization.

JULIO CONTEROS: Okay. And then there was another price commentary that you made, that would have kicked in April, I believe, as well.

BYON POLLITT: April of --

JULIO CONTEROS: 2009, I guess.

BYON POLLITT: Not -- not on international.

JULIO CONTEROS: No. I'm sorry. On the North America side excuse me.

BYON POLLITT: Not familiar, not familiar with what you're referring to. The last substantive adjustment we made that would have been impacting this quarter would have been the international adjustment third quarter, fiscal year 2008.

JULIO CONTEROS: And nothing else to, expecting going forward in fiscal '09 at this point then.

BYON POLLITT: Say that last part again?

JULIO CONTEROS: Yes and you're just not expecting anything else from the international side or domestically going forward?

BYON POLLITT: Yes, that's correct from, as you move into the current quarter, you should expect that the impact of that annualization to be felt, or the absence thereof.

JULIO CONTEROS: Great, got it, thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Jim Casane, Banc of America. You may ask your question.

JIM CASANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Yes, Thanks. And Joe, following up on that question in the release you talking about right sizing the pricing structure. Can you put a little more color on that? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I think that we have said that from the beginning, in our on the road show in our guidance, we have always suggested that, a modest amount of our growth for the time being is going to come from pricing changes. And indeed it has. And indeed I think it will, although, I think on a somewhat reduced basis. As Byron just said, there are no pricing changes that were made in the third quarter, that are going to impact our earnings. As I said, there are some modest adjustment has the were made that will affect us in the a positive effect in the fourth quarter.

JIM CASANE: That is like 1% to 2% or can you put like range around it?

JOE SAUNDERS: It's a little too soon to call.

JIM CASANE: Okay. And just, you also touched on consolidation. Any update on timing of contract renegotiations, as a result of the consolidations? You know maybe like Chase and WaMu?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I would certainly like to give you some definitive information. And you can rest assured that I will as soon as I can.

JIM CASANE: Okay. Is it an '09 event?

JOE SAUNDERS: We will let you know as soon as --

JIM CASANE: I tried. Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Craig Maurer, Calyon Securities. You may ask your question.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CALYON SECURITIES: Yes, good evening, guys. I wanted to ask you internally if you can discuss what your planning looks like or your thought process looks like around, if the current Swine Flu was to expand to SARS-like proportions. Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, we have looked at that, obviously. And -- we, at this exact point in time, based on what we know, right now and of course this is something that is unfolding. But as we look at it and we look at SARS, this would not cause us to back off of the guidance that we just gave you. I mean, we would still be looking for high single digit growth, revenue growth for the year. Obviously, if something happens it might be a little less than if it doesn't but we're talking the same range. I think one thing that you should keep in mind and everybody should keep in mind, when SARS occurred cross border volume was pretty robust and growing pretty rapidly. And then it subsided from that.

There was only one really bad quarter during the SARS epidemic. Then it was totally back within four quarters, and actually after the one bad quarter it was, it had gone, it went back up about 50%. Nothing says that this is going to be the same kind of activity, but the other very important thing to remember is that a considerable number of people, as we have continued to remind everybody, in our quarterly reports have already stopped traveling. Yet you don't have the same base of leisure travel, that is going on today, as there was when SARS occurred. They didn't need the flu epidemic to stay off of airplanes.

CRAIG MAURER: Right. So it is purely from an economic pressure point of view, people have stopped traveling. Well,

JOE SAUNDERS: I mean, obviously they have. Our cross border volume, I keep saying, has gone down.

CRAIG MAURER: Another question on cross border. Would you be able to tell me what, around what percentage of cross border transactions occur in the United States from people outside the U.S. vs. the other way around?

BYON POLLITT: We haven't commented on that level of breakdown. We were prepared to be a little more specific around Mexico, if that question was targeted. But we haven't made a decision yet to regularly disclose that level of detail. We will take that under advisement, though, and consider that going forward.

CRAIG MAURER: So how are you doing in Mexico?

BYON POLLITT: If we were to isolate Mexico, the impact on revenue or the contribution to revenue, as it relates to cross border travel is less than 1%. And that is primarily reflected in the international fees. So even if it turned out to be a significant impact on cross-border related to Mexico, that, as Joe mentioned earlier, we are still very comfortable reaffirming the high single digit revenue guidance for the year.

JOE SAUNDERS: And when Byron says less than 1% he's talking about 1% of gross revenues.

CRAIG MAURER: Right. Thank you, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Tien-tsin Huang, JPMorgan. You may ask your question.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you so much. Just wanted to ask a couple of questions on the March-April trend. It was nice to hear the stabilization in the U.S.. A bit better than what we expected. But can you detail again what you're seeing outside the U.S. in terms of more recent trend, maybe more detail across the four international regions? The flavor?

JOE SAUNDERS: What we, with regards to payment volume trend, which I think is what you're referring to.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Yes

JOE SAUNDERS: Remember that because we report them on a one quarter lag, we don't expect to have that data, we don't have that complete data yet. What we did say, was that with regards to payment volume growth on a constant dollar basis, rest of world in the December ending quarter, which was the basis for our service revenues in the current quarter, grew at 14%. And we would expect preliminary results suggest that the payment volume growth, rest of world, constant dollars will remain solidly profitable, but at a modest lower level than what we experienced, in the prior quarter.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Got it. Especially preliminary discussions with some of the international banks. You can come to that conclusion, right?

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay. Just a couple more if you don't mind. The process transactions, Byron, describe that up at 9% I believe, in the April month? Can you break that up as well for us between for U.S. and rest of world if possible? Or is that not available?

JOE SAUNDERS: What I can give you, so first of all, the 9% was month-to-date through the 28th for April, we only have that for the moment. On at an ink level. But if we were to go back to the prior quarter, for the March-ending quarter, growth rates were mid-single digits for both the U.S. and rest of world.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay, great. So it is nice to sow that pick up a bit. Last housekeeping question. Just accelerated class C release program, can you give us some detail on how that might get executed?

BYON POLLITT: So, recall that each class C share represents a one for one conversion ratio into our publicly traded A shares. So today, we have 151 million of C shares or A share equivalents all of which are locked up. That represents about 20% of our outstanding shares. All of those shares today, unlock on March 25th 2011, which was not a situation that we wanted to allow to happen. Therefore, pro actively, we wanted to begin unlocking those shares early, to release some of the pressure that would have otherwise occurred in 2011. 30%, or roughly 45 million C shares have the opportunity to unlock between July 1, of this year, through September 30th. When we say "unlock," that means they have, that the banks that own them, have the opportunity to sell them. Doesn't mean they will sell them. It means they have the opportunity to sell them. And so, we will be ready by July 1 to take requests from our member banks from our non U.S. banks, all C share holders are non U.S. banks, we will be prepared to process requests for them to unlock shares and make them available for sale. Once a C share sells, it automatically becomes an A share, and is added to our float.

As a further matter of perspective, we currently trade about 9.5 million share a day. So 30% of the $151 million is roughly 45 million shares or about five days worth of trading. So, we would expect, that the unlock would occur, during the course of that window, July 1 to September 30th. with very little disruption, to our trading volume, or price.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Got it. So you'll get the subscription level and that will probably drizzle out. So there is not necessarily a secondary there or direct share purchase program at this stage.

BYON POLLITT: That is exactly right. We expect requests to come in during the course of the window. We will unlock promptly. So there would be no secondary or any one-day or several days that would have, that we would expect to have significant transactions.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: OK. Thanks so much. Nice quarter.

BYON POLLITT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Don Vandetti, Citi. You may ask your question.

DON VANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good evening. I was wondering if you could provide maybe just an update on the regulatory environment in the U.S. and outside if there are any hot spots. I know that there was a little bit of talk about interchange on the pending card bill but it looks very unlikely, if you could provide some color, that would be great.

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't know that I am in the business of predicting what Congress will do, in this environment, but we feel quite good about the any interchange legislation not being in UDEP or (inaudible) or Maloney or Welsh or any other bill, for the time being. We seem to be making some progress, although I do not have an official announcement for you, from Australia. Maybe new Zealand, there has been some comment , there has been some things that are going on in Europe that doesn't directly affect us. I think we're generally we're in pretty good shape. Other than the comments that I made earlier about UDEP and how it affects their

DON VANDETTI: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Christopher Brendler, Stifle Nicholas. You may ask your question.

CHRISTOPHER BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFLE NICHOLAS: Can you talk about your guidance for fiscal 2010. I think It includes reacceleration of revenue growth but the operate margin guidance includes the high 40s. Why would the operating margin fall back down to the 40s under that forecast in your mind?

JOE SAUNDERS: We said high 40s to low 50s. Yes, under the current circumstance you can tell that we're running in the low-to-mid 50s and but before doing all of our formal planning and everything we're saying that it will likely be in that neighborhood, next year, too. .

BYON POLLITT: Chris, I would just reiterate something Joe said earlier. Which is, this is an unusually difficult time, for many of our clients. There has been retrenchment in card marketing programs, there is a more limited expectation that were we to invest in growth initiatives, that there would be the same level of traction today, as there would be if the environment were more favorable. And so we are being very, we're just being cautious about expressing margin expectations, recognizing that there is a lot of growth runway with this Company, and with this industry. And that once the economy improves we want to be positioned to take advantage of it.

CHRISTOPHER BRENDLER: And just to follow-up, Bryon does that mean, when you're talking about helping your constituance, your customers does that mean increased incentives or rebates or increased margin spending, both, is it press level right now and this could rebound to 2010?

BYON POLLITT: Good question. As the economy improves, as payment volume growth improves, or our clients, we would expect, the way our incentive formulas work we would pay out more in incentives because more would be earned and we would be thrilled to do so, by the way. And then, with regards to marketing, that was something Joe specifically called out, as an example of an expense, that were the environment more favorable and we believe that there would be more traction and response to marketing. We would be fully prepared to slate our ability to accelerate our ability to grow payment volume and our revenues. The short answer that is I do not necessarily expect operating margins to go below where they are now. At any time in the near future.

CHRISTOPHER BRENDLER: Perfect. Obviously on certain environment. The separate question. Is it the C class release, and the increase in the flow give you additional capacity to do share repurchase. And any updated thoughts on excess capital what your plans are to do with it, thanks.

BYON POLLITT: Yes, the answer is yes to the first question. When a C share converts, it becomes an A. And what that means, if it is an A share, it means that it is not owned by any of our member banks. Therefore, the amount of float that would be available for us to repurchase and keep public ownership above 50% would increase. So the answer to your first question is absolutely yes. And with regards to the second question, we have continually reaffirmed our intent to use excess cash, to pay dividends, and to repurchase shares, under a strong belief that that capital should be excess cash should be returned to share holders. And so, we remain very committed to that principal.

CHRISTOPHER BRENDLER: Thank you, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). The next question comes from John Williams. McWyrie. You may ask your question.

JOHN WILLIAMS, ANALYST, MCWYRIE: Good evening. Thank you for taking my question. I was hoping you could provide a little bit more color on what you're seeing from your bank customers in terms of their appetite for things like debit products and prepaid and money transfer, particularly when you look at it against credit-type products in this environment.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I think that it is, I am not sure that it is an appetite issue, with our clients. I think it is a function of the economy, and what people are willing to do, and what they are capable of doing, and how the banks assess that, how the financial institutions assess their capabilities. So in other words, how much credit are they going to,give anybody in this particular environment. So as we, as we said, we are getting a lot more traction off of our Debit volume and our debit transaction, both in dollars and in numbers of transactions. I would expect that to continue in the moderate run. I don't think that the credit card business is going to go away. But I think that we're operating in some relatively troubled times. I think that our clients are pretty smart about their businesses. I think they know what they are doing. I think that they will promote those things that they think will resonate at a particular point in time, and we're going to have to wait and see what happens in the economy, before I can accurately or totally predict exactly what they are going to do.

JOHN WILLIAMS: Thank you. How about a money transfer. Is there any specific commentary you guys can offer?

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't have any specific to say about it but we have talking about it as one of our initiatives. We have not abandoned that notion at all. We did make an announcement, I believe last quarter, about an arrangement that we have with Money Gram where people can transfer money between Visa accounts at any Money Gram location. That is not the end of what we're going to do. It is barely the beginning. And we will bring you up-to-date on it when we have firmer and more specific plans.

JOHN WILLIAMS: Thank you, guys. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani, KGW. You may ask your question.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KGW: I guess I was just hoping if you could help me with the two larger expense lines a little bit more. I guess on marketing, could you help us think about how much discretion you have to pull, if needed, on that line and some of the deflationary pressures you're seeing in that market. And then, on the personnel line could you just talk about kind of where we are as far as head count rationalization is concerned. And what we could think about or how we should think about that line going forward, thanks?

JOE SAUNDERS: I will talk about the marketing and let Byron talk about the people. Look. As far as the marketing goes, we have an ROI model. We pay attention to the return that we get. And we are focusing all of our advertising and all of our marketing expense right now on increasing usage. So we're trying to keep that transfer of attitude from cash and cashing checks to plastic, alive. And we keep it alive with our advertising. If you look at our new "go" campaign. It is totally, in the United States, it is totally debit card focused. Totally talking about using a debit card to buy a pizza to go to the aquarium, to get a song on your ipod and any one of a number of things, instead of using a check or instead of using cash. So, we measure the effectiveness of that. And we will continue to spend the amount of money that we feel is appropriate, as it relates to helping us increase the volume and therefore, increase our revenue. And I think we have done a pretty good job of being disciplined.

Now, of course we can ratchet back on the category without getting substantially harmed. And we will do what is appropriate to do, in the environment that we're in. So that we can continue to deliver what we have promised we will deliver.

BYON POLLITT: On the personnel side, if we were to elevate for a moment and take you back to our road show commitment, we had a commitment to reduce at least $300 million of cost associated with the merging of the six businesses that currently comprise Visa Inc. that took place in October of 2007. What we have said, and rationalizing personnel costs were an important component of that. We would expect that to be largely complete. The merger-related synergies, by the end of this year. And at that point as you can appreciate with a company that is now continuing to assimilate six different companies, we have opportunity to reengineer our processes, so that they are less regional-based and more global-based reflect that we're now operating as a global enterprise. And so the productivity improvement opportunities that are always present with every company, become more of a routine opportunity for us the, also translate that it is heavier sledding to get those because you're re-engineering processes. You're standardizing systems platform, so it takes an investment often to get those gains. But as Joe said we're a business that is maniacally on delivering expense improvement as a part of our value proposition, and we will continue that focus unrelentingly.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay, great. Just one quick follow-up. In the guidance you guys talk about certain economic recovery assumptions. What exactly are those? I mean, are you guys expecting like a decelerating rate of deterioration, or are there any specific data points you guys are targeting?

BYON POLLITT: What we said were four things. First, that in early fiscal year 2010, that there would be some recovery in U.S. payment volume or the U.S. economy, and the cross border travel. Recovery means that there is no, that we're starting to see some year-over-year growth. Recovery is not a lower decelerating. Recovery is some year-over-year growth. And we know that in the first fiscal quarter. The quarter beginning in October, we know that that was the quarter where gas prices took a significant reduction, from where they had been through most of 2008. And we also know that during that quarter, is when the U.S. dollar strengthened considerably against an array of currencies. And so once we get into that October-November time frame we're now lapping those two situations. So from that standpoint, we feel pretty confident that those two will happen. And what it really depends on is some recovery, in U.S. payment volumes and in cross border travel.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay. Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Bob Napoli, Piper Jaffray. You may ask your question.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFREY: Good afternoon. There was some discussion reported in some newspapers I guess that Visa was looking at an acquisition of a processing division of a large bank here in U.S. and Ohio not too long ago. And I just wondered, what your thoughts are on acquisitions in the U.S., or internationally, in the processing market, and the merchant acquiring side of that business, or otherwise.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, that is a good question. I mean, there was something in the paper, and it was about a processing operation, in Ohio, and we have obviously didn't do it. And didn't decided that we didn't want to do it. We also purchased as you know, YCS to do processing for which is a processing system that we use outside of the United States, it is multi-currency and multilingual. It is easier to deploy than VisaNet, than VisaNet would be. And so, we made that transaction. We're looking at other transactions, that would put us at the center of the payments business, in other regions around the world particularly emerging regions. It is not clear to me, that there is anything that is in the offing tomorrow or the next day, but we are alerted to what is going on and we're paying attention to it and we will make the moves that we think are strategically appropriate.

BOB NAPOLI: Thanks Joe. And that, I mean, you're talking about merchant acquiring businesses and related --

JOE SAUNDERS: In the end in the end we are not a merchant acquirer. No, we own 10% of an acquiring business in Brazil, which people have talked about potentially being IPO'd, we own parts of processing entities of several other small processing entities in several other Latin America countries. We may participate in an acquiring business in an emerging economy, but if we did, it would essentially be to speed up the terminalization of that region. And we would not ultimately desire to be in the acquiring business. But it may or may not be necessary to get something going.

BOB NAPOLI: And just a numbers question, if I could. The last question. On the percentage, do you know what percentage of your credit card payments volume are on cards, that do not revolve? No borrowing. Approximately.

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes, I think, the way we have tried to approach that, is that if you take. let's say, if we can answer from the U.S. perspective. If you take our total U.S. consumer payment volume, recognizing that a little over 15% is now on debit, which by definition doesn't revolve, and then you add into that, those credit card accounts where during the course of the year, -- less than half the credit line is used, and you add those two together, we have that a little over between 90% and 95% of our U.S. consumer payment volume would fit that definition. And we view saying that less than half the credit line is used throughout the year, as basically saying that is an account that generally doesn't revolve, for much of the year.

BOB NAPOLI: Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Jose at this point we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: The last question does from Dan Perlin, RBC. You may ask your question.

BOB NAPOLI: I got one in, excellent. Couple quick questions. With this corresponding shelf registration and I understand you're kind of saying it is good capital management, but I am just wondering can you give us an update on this Visa put. I suspect you would want to issue some debt for whatever reason you want to handle that.

BYON POLLITT: On the put there is no update. We have no reason, whatsoever, to believe that Visa Europe is interested in the put. Were they to put, we would of course look at that as a possible source of financing. But that has absolutely nothing to do with the shelf registration. As we were approaching the December time period for replenishing our escrow account, we decided in the end, to do a direct purchase of the shares, the permission for which was required by our share holders, in the event that that permission which required a super majority voting provision was not given, we had a back-up course of action to do a follow-on-underwriting. And we prepared for that in parallel. So what we found, since we had the favorable vote to do it directly, in December, we basically had done all the work for our shelf registration and therefore decided to go ahead and file it.

BOB NAPOLI: Perfect. Does the new data center provide you guys any near-term opportunity to lower your uni-cost? And there is a corresponding data center that is closing as a result? I forget how that works.

BYON POLLITT: The answer is yes. to both questions. So this replaces an existing data center, and when, with that replacement, it brings in a significant capacity increase to our existing network and leveraging that capacity increase will allow us to bring down per transaction charges.

BOB NAPOLI: Okay. And that is something we're going to see, is that part of the embed numbers as you think about 2010 or that is part of the embedded number as we think about back-half of '09.

BYON POLLITT: '10 and beyond.

BOB NAPOLI: Okay. And then lastly since I'm the last one. Would you be willing to keep incentive fees moderately higher than what the volume would suggest in order to take opportunities to get some greater market share?

JOE SAUNDERS: We deal with each of our clients on a basis that advantages both the client and Visa and that's about all I --

BOB NAPOLI: Care to say about that? Understood. Fair enough. Thanks.

JACK CARSKY: All right. Thank you all very much. If anybody has follow-up questions, feel free to call Investor Relations.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call. The call has concluded. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090513e54t001qb
  


 HD
 Q1  2009  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,244 words
   PD
4 February 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal first quarter 2009 earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, head of global investor relations. Mr. Carsky, you may begin.

   TD
JACK CARSKY, HEAD OF GLOBAL IR, VISA, INC.: Thanks, Stacy. Good afternoon, and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal first quarter 2009 earnings conference call. Joining us today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman an Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast live over the internet. It can be accessed on the investor relations section of our website at www.investorvisa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for the next 30 days. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

Let me also remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and as a result a variety of factors -- excuse me, as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning these factors is available on the Company's filings with the SEC, which can be accessed through their website, and the investor relations section of the Visa website. For historical non-GAAP, or pro forma-related financial information disclosed in this call, related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC, are available on the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal first quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the investor relations section of our website.

With that I'll turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN & CEO, VISA, INC.: Thank you, Jack, and thanks to all of you for joining us this afternoon. I'm pleased to report that in spite of the ongoing challenges with the economy we begin our fiscal 2009 with solid results across the board. Keeping in mind that our first quarter service revenue, which represents approximately 40% of our total revenue, is based on a one quarter lag, earnings, revenues and payment volumes all came in better than we anticipated going into the year. The resilience of our business could be seen in the contribution of our debit products in the US, as consumers continued to more frequently use debit as a method of payment. In addition we also saw growth in credit products outside the United States, particularly in emerging markets.

That said, the economic situation across the globe has had and will continue to have an effect on dollar payment volumes in the US and internationally for at least the next two to three quarters. On the other hand I should point out that Visa continues to benefit from growth in the number of transactions conducted over our network. As a reminder, approximately 30% of our revenue is derived from the absolute number of transactions that take place over Visa net.. This volume grew 8% in the December quarter to almost ten billion transactions, demonstrating that even in severe economic times, Visa continues to take volume from cash and checks.

Now, let me give you a brief overview of the financials for the quarter. Once again, with the one quarter service revenue lag in mind, net operating revenues in the first quarter were just over $1.7 billion, an increase of 17% over the year-ago period and ahead of our guidance. Operating margins, which benefited from seasonal impacts, were strong as well and exceeded our stated full-year guidance of the mid to high 40% range, and adjusted first quarter net income of $599 million was 35% greater than the year-ago period.

As I mentioned, we are now seeing signs of a more pronounced decline in US payment volume growth and global cross-border volumes than we had expected going into our fiscal year. While we began 2009 with the expectation that revenue growth would slow to the high single digits in the back half of the year, we are now projecting that growth to be in the low single digits. So our full-year fiscal 2009 revenue now looks to be in the high single digits, somewhere below our longer-term guidance of 11% to 15%.

In our next fiscal quarter, however, we continue to expect revenue growth to be in the middle of the 11% to 15% guidance range as it benefits from a one-time $70 million addition to incentives in the prior year. This means that the normalized second quarter growth rate is expected to be in the mid to high single digits, further decelerating in the second half of the year to the low single digits. On the positive side, we are reducing expenses which, based on the current trends we see for the year, will help us meet our objective of 2009 diluted earnings per share growth of greater than 20%.

Specifically, we have accelerated our previously-announced global integration efforts. As we continue to integrate our previously independent operating units we are reducing duplication and prioritizing our project funding, including our marketing spend, which we expect to be somewhat below the level of fiscal 2008. As a result, we are reaffirming our 2009 earnings per share and operating margin guidance. But let me be absolutely clear about our operating plan. All of these efforts will be consistent with fully funding our growth initiatives. Byron will provide additional detail on our guidance momentarily.

Looking ahead to fiscal 2010 we are cautiously optimistic that we can regain our 11% to 15% revenue growth target, assuming some recovery in the US economy and cross-border volumes by early 2010 and the anticipated more favorable year-over-year comparisons on gas prices and foreign exchange rates. On that basis we reaffirm all of our guidance for 2010. Additionally, we expect to achieve our earnings per share and operating margin targets even if the revenue growth is somewhat below our guidance range.

To deliver these results in challenging times it is more critical than ever that we have the people and the mechanisms in place to effectively engage our clients. We are focusing on their specific business needs and challenges and creating programs to help them build stronger and more profitable relationships with their customers. And as we make our business decisions we will thoughtfully consider how our actions may impact our clients' businesses. Of course we take nothing for granted but we believe this commitment to client service combined with our product and network strengths position us well, particularly during a period of intense consolidation in the banking industry.

With that let me turn the call over to Byron, who will take you through the financial results and our current thinking and financial guidance.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA, INC.: Thank you, Joe. Let me start with the financial highlights of our fiscal first quarter and then I'll touch on trends we are seeing for the quarter ending in December, as well as some early results for January. As Joe mentioned, it was an encouraging start to 2009 with solid revenue and earnings growth, keeping in mind that service revenues, which represent almost 40% of revenue, are reported on a one quarter lag. Total payment volume through the end of September 2008 grew 12% to $701 billion over the same quarter of 2007. During this time the US posted solid results, growing 9% to $421 billion. Broken down further, debit delivered a strong 14% growth, while credit continued to moderate and slowed to 3% from the prior-period's 5%. As a reminder, our US payment volume is about equally distributed between debit and credit.

On a constant dollar basis, rest of world payment volume grew at 22%, modestly higher than the 20% growth of the June quarter. In contrast to the September-ending quarter, cross-border volume growth in the December-ending quarter slowed to zero on a constant dollar basis, down from low double digits in the prior period. This slowdown was broad-based. Globally, which excludes Visa Europe, total cards outstanding for the period ending September grew 10%, with 1.7 billion cards carrying the Visa brand. Credit cards grew 6% to 812 million cards, while debit rose 14% to 864 million cards. Importantly, international growth of 16% remained very healthy. Card growth combined with ongoing efforts to broaden acceptance and usage represent a significant opportunity.

Transactions processed over Visa's network, which are reported with no quarterly lag, totaled $9.8 billion in the first fiscal quarter, an increase of 8% over the similar period a year ago. It is important to reiterate a point that Joe made at the beginning of this call. While payment volume and average ticket sizes are moderating in the face of much more difficult economic times, our transaction counts, which are an important component of our net revenue, are growing very well as the underlying secular shift to electronic payment, and more precisely to Visa, continues.

Turning to the income statement. In the first quarter gross revenues of $2 billion were up 16% from the similar period in 2007(Sic-see press release). Volume and support incentives increased by $19 million to $269 million, which represented 13% of gross revenue, moderately below our expectations coming into the year. Volume and support incentives are recognized based on current quarter results and this decline was almost entirely a function of lower fiscal first quarter payment volumes, which in turn resulted in lower payments and accruals. We expect that this dynamic will continue to provide some level of offset to lower revenue growth in our second quarter. Given our updated full-year revenue projections, we now expect 2009 volume and support incentives to be 14% to 16% of gross revenue, down from our initial guidance of 16% to 17%. Net operating revenues were just over $1.7 billion, a 17% increase over the operating revenues recorded for the first fiscal quarter of 2008.

Moving to the individual revenue line item. Service revenue was $793 million, up 8% over the prior-year period and reflective of solid year-over-year payment volumes in all regions for the quarter ending September 30. Data processing revenue, reporting on a current-quarter basis, was $554 million, up 13% over the prior year. International transaction revenues, also reported on a current quarter basis, were thir -- we up 33% to $505 million, as moderating cross-border volumes in the period were offset by competitive pricing modifications. Our adjusted operating margin, which tends to be highest in our fiscal first quarter, was approximately 58%, above our full-year guidance, as Joe mentioned. In addition to seasonal impacts and better-than-anticipated expense savings the increase in margin was due to lower volume and support incentives. which are recognized in the current quarter. I'll provide additional color on our margin expectation in a moment.

On an adjusted basis operating expenses for the first quarter declined $29 million, or 4% year over year, driven by lower costs for personnel and professional fees, as well as flat marketing spend. As Joe mentioned earlier, our focus on cost is broad-based and aimed at delivering the expense savings committed to by management during our IPO road show. Please note that while we had originally guided to flat marketing spend in fiscal 2009 versus 2008, our current expectation is that the spending level will be somewhat below the level of 2008. Capital expenditures were $68 million in the quarter, approximately $40 million of which was dedicated to the build out of our new data center. The center will be fully operational by the fiscal fourth quarter.

Moving on to the balance sheet. We ended the first quarter in excellent shape with very little debt and cash, cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments and restricted cash of $5.6 billion. Of this total, $2.6 billion is restricted cash, which represents an amount sufficient to fully fund the American Express and Discover settlements. Two significant cash outflows are notable for the quarter. First, in mid October we redeemed all of the Series 2 and a portion of the Series 3 Class C shares that were held by Visa Europe for a total of $2.7 billion, resulting in a single class of C shares and the elimination of our pro forma approach to share count and earnings per share. All Class C shares are now translatable, one to one, into Class A equivalent shares.

Second, at the end of December we delivered on our commitment to return excess cash to our shareholders when Visa funded the litigation escrow by $1.1 billion directly from our cash balances instead of conducting an expensive follow-on underwriting. This had the same effect as a stock repurchase and reduced the amount of shares outstanding for EPS calculation purposes by 20.8 million shares. While there was little effect to the average share count in the first fiscal quarter, the full effect will be realized in the second quarter and beyond. As a result of these two transactions, as of December 31, 2008, Visa, Inc. has 755 million Class A shares outstanding on an as-converted basis and began the fiscal second quarter with a fully -diluted Class A share count of 756 million shares.

Now let me comment on the trends we are seeing that will impact our results in the coming quarter and fiscal 2009. While we expect to hit the middle of our 11% to 15% revenue guidance range in our fiscal second quarter, in part due to a non-recurring $70 million addition to incentives in the prior year, the back half of 2009 is now looking to be more challenging than we expected going into the year. This will have ramifications to our revenue projections in the third and fourth quarters, though we remain committed to delivering our full-year earnings per share and operating margin guidance. Specifically, here in the US payment volume growth has declined from 9% in the September quarter, to essentially flat in the December quarter. Deconstructing this further, credit volume ended the period at a negative 6%, while debit posted a 6% gain. More recently through the end of January, aggregate US payment volume growth is trending relatively flat; credit growth is negative, in the mid single digits, relatively unchanged from the December quarter; and debit appears to have regained some momentum, rising from positive low single digits in the month of December back to the mid single-digit range in January.

When you dig a little deeper into the underlying dynamics of these trends, what we are seeing is that the steep drop in gas prices over the past several months has noticely -- noticeably dampened payments growth, despite notable growth rates in other categories of spend like recurring bill pay, quick service restaurants and healthcare. All of these categories tend to favor debit over credit in this environment, which underlies some of the resilience of that product. Net-net this leaves us cautiously optimistic that debit will continue to sustain respectable growth in this tougher economic environment. Outside the United States, for the quarter ending December 2008 constant dollar payment volume growth rates declined from the low 20s to the mid-teens. As mentioned earlier, cross-border volumes were flat in the December-ending quarter and in January have declined to negative mid single digits.

Now let me comment on what we see over the coming year as far as our operating performance is concerned and how it may impact our current guidance. As Joe previously mentioned, on a full-year basis we are projecting total net revenue to come in below the lower end of our 11% to 15% guidance range in the high single digits. While we still expect to achieve the middle of our 11% to 15% guidance range in the fiscal second quarter, the third and fourth quarters are now shaping up to be more challenging than we had signaled last quarter, with the probability of low single-digit growth. This second half outlook also encompasses a more pronounced foreign exchange impact, which, on a year-over-year basis, is expected to reduce revenue growth by about three percentage points. Despite the strong adjusted operating margin exhibited this quarter we are maintaining our long-term guidance of the mid to high 40% range for adjusted operating margin through 2010.

Though we should continue to realize incremental savings from our merger and cost initiatives, given the pressure on revenues in the back half of the year, the general uncertainty around the economy and our intention to continue investing for future growth, we are staying with our current range. More importantly, and to reiterate Joe's statement, we remain on track to deliver our guidance of annual adjusted diluted earnings per share growth of greater than 20% for 2009. Looking beyond 2009, assuming some US economic recovery by early 2010, as well as more favorable comparisons, particularly in cross-border activity, gas prices and foreign exchange rates, we expect to achieve our earnings per share and operating margin guidance.

That concludes my comments, so I'll turn the call back over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS: Thanks, Byron. Let me conclude by saying that it's important to remember that Visa's business in the US, while vital to the Company, is only one part of a large and growing global enterprise. and despite the current economic headwinds our international growth opportunities, both in credit and debit, continue to offer us very attractive longer-term prospects as economies expand and mature and payment systems evolve around the globe. And when economy of the US does turn for the better the actions we are taking now on expenses, on new product development in both credit and debit, and on international expense -- expansion will pay enormous dividends over the long term.

Thank you all for listening and with that we are ready to take questions. Operator?

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Our first question today comes from Craig Maurer of Calyon.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CALYON: Good evening. Regarding the "competitive pricing" changes regarding - around cross-border\s I was wondering if you could just characterize how that plays with the regulators over there, considering the environment, particularly in Europe? And my second question is, can you characterize the level of your marketing spend that's tied to contract obligations versus what's completely discretionary? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Well, to begin with the pricing changes that we're talking about were made several quarters ago and are being manifested in what we do -- in what we do now. This isn't a recent action. In the second regard, the majority of our marketing spending is discretionary, not non-discretionary.

CRAIG MAURER: Okay.

BYRON POLLITT: And so -- and that continues to be the case. I would say that the traction that we're getting on marketing spend is mostly related to the efficiency of what we're doing today as opposed to what we did a year ago when we were a new Company.

CRAIG MAURER: Right. Which includes the recent consolidation of agencies?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, the consolidation of agencies and, frankly, the lower cost of different types of media.

CRAIG MAURER: Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang of JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks so much. Appreciate the commentary on the December volumes in the US, it's actually a bit better than we expected. I was just curious, it looks like US payment volume is tracking closer to retail sales than it has in the past, kind of like it was flat. Still a premium but not as big as the usual secular premium that we would see. So I guess I was trying to better understand what do you think is driving that reduction in the premium? Is it really just lower average tickets and gas influencing that?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, to a certain it's lower -- modestly lower average tickets, which is related to the economy in general. So quick service restaurants and categories like that are increasing more rapidly than high-end retail or travel or airlines. Having said that, fuel prices have a significant impact on our payment volume growth in the short run. If you go back through last October, gas prices steadily increased to well over $4 a gallon from depending on what week you're looking at, they're around $1.70 a gallon right now. So there's a huge drop in the price of gas and gas accounts for about 10% of our total payment volume across both categories, so you have 10% of your volume where the cost of a gallon of gas is off by 40%, 45%. That obviously will not be the case in 2010. Assuming everything stays the way it is, you can do the numbers, but it makes a difference in our growth rate.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay, that's really helpful. Did you see any noticeable change in average tickets or I guess the number of swipes in the US in December? We got the volume data but I was just curious if you saw a similar trend in transaction counts.

JOE SAUNDERS: I think as we said we saw the number of transactions go up at a pretty strong high single-digit rate and was eight -- I think it was 8% -- I think that we just said 8%, but the average ticket size in the aggregate is down by several dollars, by 5%, I think.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay. Great. And then lastly just the --

JOE SAUNDERS: Not all of that is fuel, but fuel is a considerable hunk of it.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Right. Yes, because we've been trying to focus more on transaction count. I'll end by asking, just to confirm, the data processing line is primarily transaction based, correct, not volume based?

JOE SAUNDERS: That's correct.

BYRON POLLITT: (inaudible) is 100% transaction based.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Terrific. Thank you so much.

JOE SAUNDERS: So we're very pleased with the number of transactions going through our system in this period of time and, frankly, you can't look at it and not think that we're doing what we set out to do, which is to compete with cash and checks.

JACK CARSKY: Next question.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jason Bilodeau with UBS. Your line is open.

JASON BILODEAU, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Good afternoon and congratulations, guys. Wanted to ask a question just to start off with, we're getting more inquiries from investors trying to separate cyclical and secular trends here. Obviously the cyclical part of the growth equation's getting a little bit more challenging, which I don't think is surprising to anyone. Can you talk a little bit about the confidence level in the secular piece? There's obviously a lot of views out there that the days of easy credit are over and if the consumer does go into a period of more sustained deleveraging with an increased personal savings rate, to what extent do you guys think about that potential dynamic as you shape the outlook over the next year or so?

JOE SAUNDERS: Okay. So to begin with, if you look at our combined debit and credit volume, 95% of the volume that goes through our system comes from people that use debit cards, which don't have a credit limit, or in those cases where it is a credit card from people that either pay their bill in full every month, or occasionally revolve and never revolve it more than 50% of their life. So part of the answer is that a lot of the volume that we have is gen -- is not generated by people that are borrowing a lot of money. We've got to keep reminding ourselves and everybody else that the growth in receivables in the credit card business has a lot to do with balance transfers in the acquisition of new accounts. Balance transfers, those loans that are created as a result of the balance transfers never go through our system. Those are transactions that are handled outside of Visa's system, if you will, so while they may come under a Visa-branded product, they are not Visa volume to us.

Having said that, it's clear that things are more difficult than they used to be and it's clear that our volumes are down as a result of the economy in the US and economies around the world, although as we said, our credit card volumes in some emerging countries remain quite strong. On the other hand, our transactions are up and they appear to be up because we appear to be taking share from cash and checks in categories; in the quick service restaurants, in the bill paying categories, which are often larger dollar amount transactions, in supermarkets and wholesale food chains -- wholesale retail chains and so forth and so on. I think that the answer that encourages me the most is. if things begin to turn around, even modestly, we have structured ourselves to be poised to take advantage of it in a serious way.

JASON BILODEAU: Okay. That commentary is great and I think Adam has a follow-up question for you.

ADAM FRISCH, ANALYST, UBS: Hey, guys, how you doing?

JOE SAUNDERS: Good.

ADAM FRISCH: Pulling a Brett Favre here, I just couldn't stay away. (LAUGHTER) But, Byron, you were pretty clear that your expense reduction program would not interfere in your growth initiatives, but is it also logical to think that once top-line growth recovers at some point, hopefully sooner rather than later, you won't have to add back at least the bulk of these expenses? So I guess another way to ask it is, what you're cutting now does it have to be added back later once revenue growth reaccelerates?

BYRON POLLITT: Well, I think we made clear from the beginning that not all of the savings that we would realize as a result of the merger would be flowed through to the bottom line and that we stand ready to reinvest those -- a portion of those savings in new product and growth initiatives and that remains true. I think to help ground everyone, as Joe indicated, the margin for the first fiscal quarter is typically our highest throughout the fiscal year, so we would expect margins to moderate through the balance of the year, which is why we expect the -- which is why, frankly, we are holding our margin guidance to mid to high 40s.

JOE SAUNDERS: I would only add to that that in relation to the question you asked, are the dollars -- the expenses that we are saving going to show back up when the economy gets better, the answer is no. They will not show up.

ADAM FRISCH: Perfect. Thanks, guys.

JOE SAUNDERS: They're going away.

ADAM FRISCH: Good, keep them away. Thanks.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Our next question comes from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs. Sir, your line is open.

JULIO QUINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, hey, guys. My question is really just want to focus more on pricing, and I know that we've heard a lot of commentary, chatter up in talking to a lot of folks out there that pricing increases are coming from Visa, Master Card, prepare for that., and I guess what I'm really trying to understand more than anything else, even if they were some pricing increases, not necessarily the magnitude, but where exactly should we be thinking about how each one of these pieces would flow through the revenue items. I guess if you could focus more on thing like the card services line, the data processing fees and cross-border, how do we break out where or (inaudible) with it, or if you can provide a way to think about where those increases would really actually manifest themselves in the model?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think in the short run, I just suggested in my talk that we're going to be very careful about what we do, given the fragile state of the bottom line of our clients, particularly in the US. So while I'm not going to say we will do nothing, what we will do will be in concert with our partners and it'll be done in a thoughtful -- I think we've said a thoughtful, surgical way and we're not going to back off of that. That's not where we believe our greatest opportunity lies.

JULIO QUINTEROS: Okay. And then maybe just in terms of the model itself, and maybe, Byron, you could just comment on, thinking about the line items, where would it actually show up in the model if there were to be anything like that?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, I -- the way we've tried to be helpful is to elevate to an overall level of revenue guidance in combination with margin. I think we've said from the beginning that in our first 12 to 18 months as a public Company, as a merged entity, we had a lot of practices and a lot of opportunity to standardize and optimize our business across the globe. We are doing that and we'll -- then we'll basically have a non-normalized rate of growth through this year, but as we move beyond this year, again, as we've said before, the vast majority of our revenue growth should be attributed to taking share from cash and check and growing our business with transactions and a higher penetration of TCE. We actually expect pricing to be a much more moderated impact over time on our revenue growth.

JULIO QUINTEROS: Perfect. Thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from James Kissane with Banc of America/Merrill Lynch. Sir, your line is open.

JAMES KISSANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA/MERRILL LYNCH: Hey, thanks. Byron, just following up on that, what portion of your revenue growth this year will be from the price increase? And then maybe just a quick follow up. When will the cross-border pricing adjustments anniversary? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Let's start with the second. The cross-border pricing adjustments you're referring to were initiated in Q3 of 2008 -- fiscal Q3 of 2008, so they will anniversary at the mid-way point of this fiscal year, which is a contributing factor to our guiding down revenue growth in the second half. With regards to how much revenue is tied to price adjustments, that's not something that we have spoken to publicly and again, we tried to be helpful by giving, in this case, relatively specific revenue guidance by quarter for all of 2009.

JAMES KISSANE: No, it's very helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust. Sir, your line is open.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Hi, guys, thanks for taking the question. One of the things or one of the premises on which you're kind of basing the 2010 outlook is the thought that maybe we find a bottom here, at least in the US economy, 2009 and at least in credit volume. Is there anything anecdotally or otherwise that you see out there that makes you feel comfortable with that kind of projection? Is it the disconnect between the view of restriction of credit and the type of customer or the type of transaction that flows through the network, or is there something else that makes you feel like that's something we should be thinking about?

BYRON POLLITT: Let me respond first by saying this is not a projection. What we have said is that, if the economy in the US begins to has some degree of recovery in early fiscal year 2010, in combination with some recovery of cross-border, in addition to more favorable comparisons, specifically with gas prices and FX rate, then we beli -- then we will -- we are confident that we will resume our revenue guidance of 11% to 15% growth. So what we're -- the way we're trying to be helpful here is if there -- under those circumstances, we feel very comfortable in projecting revenue growth in back into our guidance range.

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes, let me just be a little bit more specific. I don't know when the economy in the world is going to recover, so when Byron suggests that there needs to be some recovery, that's what we're saying. If there is in the -- by around the first quarter of 2010 then I think we're in good shape. As it relates to the foreign exchange and the gas prices we're considerably more certain that that will happen. So it's really a mix of the two and remember, I don't need the economy to recover to a point of where I have to get to the revenue guidance to continue to deliver the 20% earnings per share.

ANDREW JEFFREY: Okay. Then, as a follow up on contra revenue it sounds like you're getting a little more constructive there relative to your net revenue growth, should we actually begin to see support and incentive payments fall as a percent of volume at some point in 2009?

JOE SAUNDERS: The way we've articulated that is as a percent of gross revenue, and so we had -- going into the year, we had guided volume and support as a percent of gross revenue at 16% and 17%, because growth has been a bit less than anticipated, as a percentage of gross revenue that has fallen to, in this case, 13% for the quarter, and then we adjusted our guidance to 14% to 16% on a full-year basis.

ANDREW JEFFREY: Okay.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, we don't expect it to remain that low.

ANDREW JEFFREY: Okay. All right, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Chris Brendler of Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Hi, thanks. Good afternoon. Just a quick follow up on that last question. The 14.5% -- or the 13% this quarter and the volume and support incentives, I assume that's based -- in your guidance for fiscal '09 is based on volumes staying relatively consistent where they were in the fourth quarter and January. If you've taken a leg down, does that line item have more potential to drop and could it conceivably be as low as 10% of revenues, or is it not that sensitive if volume falls?

JOE SAUNDERS: Let me just -- let me start out by reminding you that the incentives are booked on a current quarter basis and the revenues on a lag basis, so you're talking about service revenues up to October and you're talking about incentive expense on a real-time basis that occurred in the ensuing quarter.

BYRON POLLITT: And I would just add to that that the way the incentives would respond would be with diminishing return. So if revenues were -- if revenue growth was -- or payment volume growth continued to slow, there would be a diminishing dampening effect by incentives over time. It's not linear.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. And then another follow up on --

BYRON POLLITT: And the flip side to that is once you begin annualizing that and you have recovery, you have the same phenomenon on the uptick that incentives will be -- will start to come back as growth in payment volumes begin to recover. Okay. And then your guidance for and your commentary around cross-border, it sounds like cross-border actually did get worse in the month of January and once we hit the second quarter were running negative single digit like we were in January in terms of volumes. We're going to see that in terms of revenues, as well, because pricing's going to anniversary. Is that in your guidance already, negative cross-border revenues by the second half of '09? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Everything that we know is in our gui -- is in the guidance that we're giving you today. There is nothing that we've talked about that we haven't thoughtfully considered in putting together the comments that we put together today.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. Thanks, Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS: It doesn't suggest that things can't get worse, but we have considered everything that we're looking at.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Your next question comes from Chris Mammone of Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS MAMMONE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. I guess just following up on that last question, maybe you could get a little more granularity on the slowdown, is it sort of broad-based or could you touch on your major regions and specify if some regions are dragging down the overall volume numbers more than others? And then also a quick follow up, I don't know, could you give the process transaction growth for January? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: So let me respond. With regards to regional granularity, when the economic malaise began to set in different regions entered that zone at different timeframes, but I think it's fair to say today all our regions are -- it's broad-based. All our regions are experiencing declines. All the regions contributed to the reduction in growth in cross-border.

BYRON POLLITT: I admit that's true about cross-border but I -- we have seen transaction and payment volume growth in some -- in several of our emerging countries and some of our regions outside the United States.

JOE SAUNDERS: So we have some countries that are accepting (inaudible), yes.

BYRON POLLITT: And then we -- on transactions processed, we didn't give the January number. Our practice is to give it at the quarter, which we will do at the next earnings call and that'll be for all three months.

CHRIS MAMMONE: All right. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Don Fandetti of Citigroup.

DON FANDETTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, good evening. Joe, I was wondering if you could just give us an update on your debit expansion in Asia in terms of timing and your outlook there?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, as you know we've just begun a joint venture in Asia and we are in business. We have a number of clients in queue and over the next 24 to 36 months we think that that'll be a pretty viable operation that will generate more than noticeable revenues, so that's how we're starting to push debit out in Asia. We have debit initiatives going in other parts of the world.

DON FANDETTI: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Moshe Katri of Cowen and Company.

MOSHA KATRI, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Hey, thanks. Can you break down -- can you give a breakdown of payment and transaction growth by regions; US, Europe, Asia-Pacific? I think these are numbers that you gave us last quarter. And then could you elaborate a bit more on your cost cutting initiatives, I guess with the exception of advertising, are we focusing more aggressively on personnel, systems, data centers, et cetera? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: I'll answer the second question, then Byron will answer the first question. As it relates to the second question, what I said was that we are executing on what we said we would execute on in the IPO, and that is to deneutralize the Company and to eliminate duplications and wind up focusing on implementing projects that made sense to the business and eliminating those things that were extraneous or duplicative and that is exactly what we're doing. One of the fallouts of that, of course, is that we're reducing our headcounts in certain places as it relates to this duplication. But that's essentially what we're doing. We're putting together a Company that is effective, efficient and focused and we're doing what we should be doing and we're doing what we promised we'd be doing and it happens to coincide with a period of time where it's extremely appropriate and important that we get about the business of doing that and getting it done and that's what we're committing we will do.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to transactional data by region, let me refer you to our website and we will have posted today, Jack?

JACK CARSKY: Yes.

BYRON POLLITT: We will have posted today for the period ending September 30t, all the detailed statistics of which transaction by region are included and are available for you to access.

MOSHA KATRI: And just to verify, did you say that average ticket prices were down 5%? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: No, we did not. We said -- we didn't give any specific quantitative on average tickets.

BYRON POLLITT: Well, Joe, Joe said it was about 5% in aggregate.

MOSHA KATRI: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Your next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani of KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KBW: Hi, thanks. Joe, I guess I just wanted a little more clarity on that 2010 guidance. Is there a base level of revenue growth in that year that would lead you to believe that 20% EPS growth is still achievable?

JOE SAUNDERS: We think -- we're pretty confident at this point, without knowing in absolute terms what's going to happen that the things we know that will change off of the baseline that we expect in the third and the fourth quarter will get us to where we need to go. We think it could get us back up to the 11% to 15% range. We think it could fall short of that and still deliver the 20% earnings per share. I mean I -- you could stress test it all the way down the hill, but we're reasonably confident that we're in pretty good shape knowing what we know now.

BYRON POLLITT: So just to build on that a moment, so we guided in the second half of the fiscal year to a probability of low single-digit revenue growth. As Joe mentioned earlier, what we do know is what gas prices have been and what we will anniversary in terms of gas pricing. We also expect to favorably anniversary the change in FX. We then went on to say that, in order to deliver our -- get back into our revenue guidance range that we expect that we would depend on at least some recovery in cross-border and some recovery in the US. Joe went on to say that even if we underperform slightly -- underperformed our revenue guidance somewhat we could still hit 20% or better EPS growth. So that's how we've tried to frame it for you all.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay. So we could think maybe high single digits still achievable, maybe below a little bit harder to?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think we've given you a pretty good frame, you should take it from there.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay, fair enough. And then just on capital management, I was wondering where we were with that. I think you guys still have a fair amount of cash. Any intentions of instituting another share repurchase above and beyond the $1.1 billion? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: Good question. So as I mentioned in earlier in the remarks, we did $1.1 billion of share repurchase in the month of December. And we have ample opportunity to go back to our board to seek additional authorizations at a time and an amount that management feels appropriate.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay, thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Stacy, we probably have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Then your next question comes from Bob Napoli of Piper Jaffray.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Thank you, good afternoon. Just want to make sure I -- the foreign exchange effect on revenue, I think can you give a little more -- I think you said in the back half of the year it's like only 3%, what is --?

BYRON POLLITT: In the back half of the year, we said that it was three full percentage points of impact on growth. That's on the Company's entire growth rate. So -- and that's currently the ballpark that's we're contemplating.

BOB NAPOLI: And I guess the effect on revenue for -- on a run -- the change in currencies, the dramatic change we saw over the last 60, 90 days, the net effect of that is only 300 basis points on the growth rate?

BYRON POLLITT: On the year-over-year growth rate.

BOB NAPOLI: Okay. And the effect on profitability?

BYRON POLLITT: In the way that we hedge, we hedge the economic exposure, so revenue less expenses is an income exposure. We hedge the income, so that's -- from an economic standpoint that's hedged. When we gave the guidance for 20% or better EPS growth that's on an as-reported basis, so the foreign exchange impacts are fully contemplated in that guidance.

BOB NAPOLI: Okay. And fuel -- I want to make sure I heard this you right, you said fuel was -- before the decline in fuel prices was 10% of all spending on your card? That's higher than I'd heard from other --

BYRON POLLITT: About -- Joe said about 10% in the US.

BOB NAPOLI: Okay.

JOE SAUNDERS: The US.

BOB NAPOLI: And just last question, on the -- there was a major security breach, I guess, in the industry here in the US and I think that there is -- the risks of security breaches in the industry are going up. I was wondering if you could comment on that and the -- how concerned you are about that and what economic effects you think the security breach that is out there could have on various players in the industry?

JOE SAUNDERS: Obviously we're aware of it and obviously we're involved in the correction of it and obviously we're concerned that it happened. We believe that we have made a considerable amount of progress through PCI -- for lack of a better term -- to mitigate the possibility that these things happen. There have been some that have occurred but not -- but frankly, not many.

Now, having said that, to us, one of the most important things is that from -- in that regard we have promised consumers that they will never be financially liable for anything like this occurring to them. That is totally intact and consumers can feel comfortable using Visa cards and comfortable in the notion that no security breach will ever financially affect them and I think that is the most important thing. We have worked on making sure that nobody in the process gets hurt, but our promise is to the consumer and the confidence is directed at the consumer and I'm happy to say that that continues to be 100% effective.

BOB NAPOLI: Thank you, Joe.

JACK CARSKY: And thank you all very much. Thank you, Stacy. And if anybody has any follow-up questions feel free to give investor relations a call.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect at this time. Thank you for joining,

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090211e524003et
  


 HD
 Q4  2008  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,834 words
   PD
29 October 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2008 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa, Inc. fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2008 earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Today's conference is being recorded. I would like to turn the call to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, head of global investor relations for Visa. Sir, you may begin. Thank you, Jose.

JACK CARSKY, HEAD, GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Good afternoon and welcome to Visa, Inc. fourth quarter and full year 2008 earnings conference call. Speaking today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Visa's Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast live over the internet. It can be accessed on the investor relations section of the web site at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be achieved on our site for 30 days. A power point deck containing highlights of today's commentary was posted to our website prior to this call.

   TD
Let me please remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning those factors is available in the company's filing the SEC which can be accessed through the SEC website or investor relations section of the Visa website.

For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed on this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal fourth quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the investor relations SEC of our website. With that, I will turn the call other over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Jack. Thanks to all of you for joining us this afternoon. Before I is discuss earnings, left me speak to the Discover litigation which, as you know, we settled two days ago. We are obviously very pleased that we were able to put this behind us in a manner quite consistent with our retrospective responsibility plan. An additional component of the Discover settlement is settlement of unasserted claims by MasterCard. With this settlement, I am delighted to tell you that all disputes between Visa, its primary competitors, MasterCard, American Express, [First Data] and Discover have now been resolved. That's an important milestone.

Although the expense for the Discover settlement did flow through our income statement this quarter as per the retrospective responsibility plan, there is no direct cost to our public class A shareholds, and there is no delusion to their holdings. With respect to the MasterCard release as previously reported Visa, Inc. had taken a $30 million after tax reserve in the third quarter since this claim is not covered by the retrospective responsibility plan. As the obligation was connected to the ultimate settlement amount, we recognized an additional $18 million after tax reserve this quarter.

As a result of the discover settlement we will be taking steps this fiscal first quarter to fund our escrow account with an additional $1.1 million. As per our retrospective responsibility plan, when we fund the escrow our class B shareholders will bear this cost via a reduction in their as converted share count. It is our intention to seek an amendment to our charter to permit us to deposit our own funds into the escrow account and buy down class B ownership directly. This approach reduces the total number of shares outstanding for EPS calculation purposes, effectively operating as a share repurchase program in the amount of $1.1 billion.

Now let move on to earnings. In the face of a tough US economic environment and increasingly difficult international economic situation as well, the relative resiliency of Visa's business model is once again reflected in our earnings results. Our adjusted fourth quarter net income was $448 million, this equates to adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.58. For all of 2008, adjusted net income was $1.7 billion while adjusted diluted earnings per share was $2.25.

Net operating revenues in the fourth quarter were strong at $1.7 billion, an increase of 17% over the fourth quarter of 2007 on a pro forma basis as we again saw solid growth across all fee categories. For the full year of 2008, net operating revenues were $6.3 billion, an increase of 21% over 2007 on a pro forma basis. As we had signaled in past earnings calls, we are now seeing operating revenues running more in line with our long-[term guidance as the positive effects of earlier pricing adjustments have generally been reflected on a year-over-year comparative basis.

We also continue to realize the positive impact of our operating scale and our efforts in reorganizing Visa as a publicly traded company. We maintain good expense control in our fourth physical quarter and for all of 2008, and we remain committed to managing our expenses prudently without compromising investments in products, technology necessary to fuel future growth. As a result, we delivered strong operating margins this quarter in line with our recently increased external guidance of mid to high 40% range. We expect to continue that to be the case in fiscal 2009 and 2010.

The recent past has been relatively positive. What are we seeing for the future. From a broad perspective, we are seeing a further slowdown in consumer spending in the US as well as across border volumes. Here in the US for the calendar quarter ending September 2008, on which our 2009 first fiscal quarter's US service fee revenue will be based, aggregate payment volume growth in the US has continued to trend at the 10% level seen in the June quarter.

Deconstructing this further credit volume growth averaged in the low single digits in the quarter trending lower through September. In sharp contrast to credit, debit volume growth was running at low to mid double digits throughout the quarter pointing out not only the resiliency of this product but the fact that the secular shift to plastic continues.

Since the beginning of October we have experienced additional moderation in volume growth in the US credit payment volume which was in the 1% to 2% range for most of the quarter, has turned negative through the first three weeks of October. In contrast, debit payment volume has continued to grow at low double digits.

While international payment volume growth rates remain stable through September, cross border volumes are off the high teens level seen in the June quarter and were running in the high single digits at the end of September. It is important to remember that despite the current economic head winds, international growth both in credit and debit continues to offer us very attractive longer term opportunities as the economies mature and payment systems evolve around the globe. Visa is in a superior position to benefit from this trend over the long term.

So, working in our favor is our industry-leading debit presence here in the US and still positive growth rates in credit and cross border volumes around the globe through September. This should allow us to meet the high end of our 11% to 15% revenue guidance for our fiscal first quarter of 2009 and based on initial observations in October, the middle of the range for our second fiscal quarter.

Given the uncertainty over the longer term direction of the economy, however, in the US and around the globe for the full year of 2009, 2010 we are targeting the lower end of that 11% to 15% revenue range, including the possibility of single digit growth in our fiscal third and fourth quarters with low to flat cross border volume growth. But importantly, we remain committed to meeting our guidance of adjusted operating revenue margins in the mid to high 40% range and the 20 plus percent adjusted diluted earnings per share growth for 2009 and 2010. Even in a down scenario that saw only mid to high single digit revenue growth in 2010, we could sustain these targets. Byron will cover additional guidance metrics and other underlying dynamics momentarily.

Finally, let me touch on the current wave of bank consolidation and how I see it affecting Visa over the near and longer term. Bank consolidation has accelerated recently. It has been a constant factor in the financial industry for decades. The Visa organization and our strength in both credit and debit has proven to be highly adaptable to changing market conditions. Past mergers in the industry have not had a negative effect on us.

To the contrary, our technology scale and product suites make us an attractive partner to our very largest clients as well as to smaller community banks and credit unions. In the current wave of consolidation, we believe that we are in good shape. That does not mean that we are resting on the positive history of these relationships or that we take them for granted. We will remain focused on serving our clients and adding value to those relationships wherever we can. With that, let me turn the call over to Byron who will take you through the financial results and I'll be back to provide updates around some of our newer business initiatives.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. Let me begin by highlighting some of the business and revenue drivers from the quarter that are representative of the strength of our business. Payment volume through the end of June, which drives our fourth quarter service fees, grew 15% to $699 billion over the same quarter of 2007 on a pro forma basis with the US growing at 10% and the rest of the world growing at 25%. In the September ending quarter, US payments volume continued in the 10% range.

Through the first three weeks of October, US payments volume growth has moved to mid single digits with credit turning negative and debit in the low double digits. Cross border volume growth in the June ending quarter was in the high teens, moderating to the mid teens in the September quarter though trending lower through the period to end the month of September in the high single digits. In October, cross border volume growth continued to trend down in all regions except [Semia].

To put cross border payment volume in historical context, in the recessionary period of late 2001 and early 2002, monthly payment volume growth fell to low single digits and there were several months that were slightly negative but the severity differed around the globe and an on annual basis. It remained positive for each of those years and, importantly, upon an economic recovery the rebound was swift and meaningful across all regions.

Moving on to transaction growth, payment and cash transactions were up 14% to $14.1 billion in the quarter ending June 2008 versus the prior year. While the US grew approximately 10% during the period, the rest of the world grew at 20%, led by our [Semier] region at 27% and Asia Pacific and Latin America at 19% and 23% respectively. Processed transactions, or those we define as being processed over Visa's network, totaled $9.6 billion in the fiscal fourth quarter, an increase of 11% over the similar period a year ago.

Globally, which excludes Europe, card growth for the period ending June was up 12% with over 1.6 billion cards carrying the Visa brand. Credit grew 8% to 798 million cards while debit rose 17% to 847 million cards. Internationally, credit and debit card growth was very strong, each growing 18% year-over-year. While credit in general is a more mature market domestically, you can see that internationally we continue to have a lot of runway. On the debit side, as we have often stated, one of our near-[term goals is moving these debit cards from cash at ATMs to the point of sale.

Moving on to the income statement. In the fourth quarter, gross revenues of $2 billion were up 20% from the pro forma prior year. Volume and support incentives increased by $83 million to $299 million representing 15% of gross revenue. For the full year, gross revenues of $7.4 billion were up 26% from the 2007 pro forma period. Volume and support incentives increased by $447 million to $1.2 billion, representing 16% of gross revenue.

For 2009, we are expecting volume and support incentives will run in the 16% to 17% range. If we continue to see lower levels of payment volume growth we would expect to see some offsetting benefit in this line item. Total net operating revenues were just over $1.7 billion, a 17% increase over the pro forma operating revenues recorded for the fourth quarter of 2007. For the full year 2008, total net operating revenues were $6.3 billion, a 21% increase over the pro forma operating revenues of $5.2 billion recorded for 2007.

Moving on to the individual revenue line items. Service fee revenue was $788 million, up 8% over the pro forma results of the prior year period, reflective of higher year-over-year payment volumes in all regions. For all of 2008, service fees were $3.1 billion, up 19% over 2007 on a pro forma basis. Data processing fee revenue was $548 million, up 18% over the prior year periods pro forma $463 million. For the full year, data processing fees were $2.1 billion, up 25% over 2007. International transaction fees were up 45% to $512 million while for the full year 2008 they were up 44% to $1.7 billion. Both time periods continue to benefit from strong, multi-currency payment volume across all regions as well as from pricing adjustments we made in April of this year to cross border transactions involving US issued cards.

As mentioned earlier, cross border transactions are currently moderating across the globe, though we remain cautiously optimistic that they will continue to pose growth and rebound with the economy. Our adjusted operating margin was approximately 45% this quarter and 46% for the full year, consistent with our guidance. On an adjusted basis, operating expenses for the fourth quarter declined $229 million or 20% year-over-year to $943 million driven primarily by lower costs for marketing and personnel. For all of 2008, on an adjusted basis, operating expenses were $3.4 billion, a decline of 4% compared to the 2007 pro forma period again driven by lower costs for advertising and personnel.

We expect that advertising and marketing expense in 2009 to be relatively flat to 2008 and we are continuing our focus on driving operating efficiencies across the enterprise. Capital expenditures were $93 million in the quarter, over half of which were dedicated to the buildout of our new data center. Fiscal 2008 capital spending was approximately $415 million. For fiscal 2009, we expect CapEx to be between $300 million and $350 million, lower than the 2008 figure but still elevated as we complete our new data processing center. Post 2009, we expect CapEx to run at around 3% to 4% of gross revenue on an annualized basis.

Moving on to the balance sheet. We ended the fourth quarter with cash, cash equivalents, available for sale investments and restricted cash of $7.5 billion, a decline of approximately $900 million over the prior quarter. This variance was the result of our annual $200 million payment for the retailers litigation settlement which runs through 2012 as well as a reclassification of approximately $953 million from the cash line to the other current assets line on our balance sheet. This reclassification was the result of our investment in the reserve primary fund, a previously highly rated money market fund becoming a liquid. This resulted in an impairment charge of $29 million in the fourth quarter. We believe we will receive our net investment of $953 million over the coming months as the fund is liquidated. This charge is reflected in the investment income line on our P&L and is the primary reason we saw a decline in that line this quarter.

Of the current $7.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents, available for sale investments, and restricted cash, restricted cash of approximately $1.9 billion represents the balance of the $3 billion litigation escrow established at the IPO less the initial payments to American Express of $1.1 billion. Please also note that of the $7.5 billion in year-end cash, that on October 10 we deployed $2.6 billion to redeem all of the Series 2 and a portion of the Series 3 Class C shares that were held by Visa Europe. Thus, on a pro forma basis, cash and cash equivalents should be reduced by this amount for the current quarter.

Let me remind you that the balance of the C class common stock holdings continue to be locked up until March 2011 while the Class B shares are locked up until the later of March 2011 or upon resolution of all of the covered litigation. Our pro forma share count post this redemption stands at 776 million shares.

As we have stated since our IPO road show, given our sizable free cash flow, we have always anticipated implementing a share repurchase program in keeping with our strong belief in returning excess cash to stockholders. In this context, the actions Joe discussed earlier to fund the escrow this quarter directly from our cash balances has the same effect as a stock repurchase since Visa will be buying down Class B share holdings and reducing the amount of shares outstanding for EPS calculation purposes. The size of the repurchase is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion.

Before I get into our views on 2009 and 2010, let me bring you up to date on how we are viewing our evolving capital structure strategy. Simply stated, the key objectives are to reduce our cost of capital over time, ensure adequate liquidity to cover transaction settlement risks, and provide sufficient financing capacity to fund future contractual or other obligations such as a Visa [Europut], an attractive acquisition. As part of this strategy, management also intends to identify excess cash on the balance sheet and then further enhance total shareholder return by returning cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

Under our preferred approach, the reduction in shares associated with the replenishment of the escrow account will be funded from excess cash. Although we have significant debt capacity today, we have no compelling use of proceeds and, therefore, plan to wait and add debt at an appropriate time. As we enter fiscal year 2009, the Company believes that the combination of its cash reserves, bank collateral, credit revolver, and debt capacity is more than sufficient to cover Visa's liquidity needs from any individual bank disruption or foreseeable financial event. As our capital strategy evolves, we will keep you updated.

Now let me comment on what we see over the coming year as far as our operating performance is concerned. As Joe already mentioned, payment volume growth is moderating. As a result, on a full-year basis, we are projecting revenues to come in at the lower end of our 11% to 15% guidance range. While we expect to achieve the high end of the range in our first fiscal quarter and the middle of the range in the second fiscal quarter, the third and fourth quarters could be more challenging with the possibility of single digit growth.

We are maintaining our mid to high 40% range for adjusted operating margin in both 2009 and 2010 as we should continue to realize incremental savings from our merger and cost initiatives. We remain on track to deliver annual adjusted diluted earnings per share growth of greater than 20% again for both 2009 and 2010 while annual free cash flow should exceed 2008's figure of $1.7 billion. Our normalized tax rate for fiscal 2009 is projected to be 40% and we continue to take actions that are geared toward driving the rate down into a 35% to 36% range over the next four years. That concludes my comments, so I will turn the call back over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS: Thanks, Byron. Before we begin Q&A, let me give you a quick update on some of our longer term initiatives and their progress. Since our IPO road show we have repeatedly talked about a series of longer term strategic priorities that we would be investing in to support our growth. Longer term opportunities we have identified include money transfer, prepaid, mobile payments and e-commerce. Many of these innovations already are operational in Visa regions worldwide and under Visa's new structure can be scaled more easily on a global basis.

In late September we hosted a technology and innovation day in New York for members of the media, trade organizations and analysts. In conjunction with that event we announced several new innovative advances in electronic payments and services. First, we announced that we are developing a suite of mobile applications for the Google android platform which will be available for download on android powered handsets and initially available to select Visa card holders. The services will allow Visa card holders to receive notifications to their mobile devices about transaction activity on their accounts, obtain offers from a wide array of merchants and use the built-in location based technology developed by Google to quickly map nearby merchants where they can redeem Visa offers and locate ATMs that accept Visa.

We also announced in September that we are working with Nokia, the world as largest mobile handset manufacturer to deliver Visa payment and related services for Nokia's next generation near field communication handsets. The Visa applications will first be made available for trial use by interested financial institutions. In conjunction with US Bank Corp we have launched a mobile money transfer pilot program to allow participating Visa card holders to use their mobile phones and PDAs to securely send funds directly to another Visa card holder. The first phase of the program expected to launch in early 2009 will enable domestic money transfers within the US and will involve key Visa issuers led by US Bank and as many as 6,000 Visa account holders.

Lastly, we announced the expansion of Visa ReadyLink, a prepaid reload service, to enable the reload of eligible prepaid products at ATMs across the US. Visa ReadyLink gives consumers a secure and convenient way to purchase and add funds to Visa reloadable prepaid cards, a significant advantage to financially underserved consumers, those without a traditional banking relationship or access to a payment card. Visa estimates that there are more than 80 million financially underserved consumers in the United States.

In addition to the above initiative updates, we have landed a number of new pieces of business recently and although they may not be adding meaningfully to revenue in the near term, they speak volumes to our position in the debit markets around the world. First and last quarter we signed a multi-year agreement with the Royal Bank of Scotland under which the bank will begin issuing Visa branded debit cards to all its customers. RBS includes citizens financial group here in the United States. The migration to the Visa brand is expected to take place in the second half of 2009.

This is obviously a big win for Visa in a highly competitive marketplace. We appreciate the trust and confidence RBS has placed in Visa and our debit offers. Second, we are announcing today that Visa and HSBC are expanding our global relationship to include new debit card programs in a dozen countries and territories throughout Asia Pacific and the first debit Visa pay wave enabled contactless payment programs in the Middle East. Under the terms of the five-year agreement for Asia Pacific, Visa will become an HSBC partner for consumer debit products with HSBC issuing more than 10 million Visa debit cards in countries including Australia, India, Indonesia and Taiwan.

In addition, HSBC Middle East Limited will begin issuing Visa branded debit cards in the region in early 2009. Some of these new cards will be Visa pay wave enabled, allowing consumers to make contactless payment transactions quickly and securely at the point of sale. The HSBC Visa debit card will be available to all HSBC customers in eight countries, including the United Arab Emirates, [Berane] and Egypt.

We are obviously delighted with our new arrangement with RBS citizens and HSBC and look forward to working with both partners to help build their respected businesses. Importantly, these agreements deliver on our strategy to expand Visa's global debit leadership as we seek to further the migration from cash to check to Visa payments. With that, we're ready to take questions. Operator?

OPERATOR: Yes, thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). First question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang, JPMorgan. You may ask your question.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. Appreciate all of the disclosures. Really helpful. Let me ask a question about pricing. Has your thinking on pricing and the ability to push through price increases change at all since last quarter given your commentary on the macro?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think our position on pricing remains consistent with where we have been up to now. And I think that we have indicated that we what we do from a prime pricing stand point will be consistent with good business practices and our partnerships around the world.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay. Very good. Maybe if I can ask a quick followup then just on bank consolidation. Joe, I know you gave some comments there, but can you give some additional insight on how and maybe when network brand decisions are made as a result of consolidation and obviously now Visa's positioned given some of the known consolidation that's out there?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, to say the least with we are in extraordinary environment and some of these transfers take on, they're different and they will happen at different times. We obviously, as I said, are in constant contact with our partners and will don't be so. But I think it is inappropriate to talk about contractual relationships.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Fair enough. Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Adam Frisch, UBS. You may ask your question.

ADAM FRISCH, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Good afternoon, great job on the color as well for what you are seeing there. I have two questions on credit. First, can you speak to the quality of the 47% of your transactions in the US that are credit? Any metric or data points that enable us to more appropriately assess the composition of your credit card holders?

JOE SAUNDERS: I'm not -- I'm not sure credit cards are not 47% of our --

ADAM FRISCH: Just talking about the transactions or the GDV, 47% of your GDV, but anything that speaks to the composition of your card holders whether it be FICO scores, what percent of them are revolvers or what percent are maxed out on credit lines or anything that gives us -- .

JOE SAUNDERS: We are seeing a continued shift in both the debit and credit to nondiscretionary purchases. And indeed, when we have gone back and looked at it, it is the more creditworthy card holders that seem to be driving most of the purchases in the environment today. There's a very low percentage of those transactions that are being driven by people that are credit impaired or at the low end of the FICO.

ADAM FRISCH: What percentage of your card holders would be in that minority that are not generating a lot of the spend?

JOE SAUNDERS: About 5%.

ADAM FRISCH: Okay. So that's great. And then, just one other follow up, on the New York Times article today talking about the suggestion of the systemic shrinking of the consumer credit card industry. Obviously more movement than normal we are seeing with different issuers, but do you see the entire supply side getting materially smaller or is it just some shifts going on between issuers and specific geographies?

JOE SAUNDERS: That is a, that's a good question, and I am not sure that I'm in a position to amplify on that right now. I think I would hold the thought for a quarter and let me observe what is happened from all of this movement in the last several weeks.

ADAM FRISCH: Okay. Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Charlie Murphy, Morgan Stanley. You may ask your question.

CHARLIE MURPHY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. I was wondering if you can discuss the growth in service fees at 8% this quarter versus the 15% payment volume. Is that an indication of pricing pressure and how do you expect that dynamic to play out over the next few quarters?

BYRON POLLITT: This is Byron. Thank you for asking, Charlie. The, as I think many of you can appreciate, in October, at this time last year, we merged together five distinct autonomous regions. And no sooner did we merge them and complete our IPO than we began to standardize all of the regions on a common chart of account. And what we realized, Charlie, as we began this exercise was that not all of our regions classified the revenue components in quite the same way in terms of fee categories as we report externally.

So, as a result, in recent months we have begun taking steps to standardize our revenue classifications globally and, therefore, you are beginning to see some of the effects of this common reporting format being applied and, therefore, you all are just going to have to bear with us a bit because our 2008 growth rates by fee category are just not going to normalize until some time next year. In this particular case, some of the early adjustments we are making are shifting some of what have been classified as service fees today at that processing fees and, hence, the difference in the growth rates. I just want to emphasize two things, this has nothing to do with our ability to price or generate strong growth in any of these categories and, secondly, none of these changes impact our reported total revenue. It is getting all of our regions aligned to report their fee categories in a common standardized global format.

CHARLIE MURPHY: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Craig Maurer with Calyon. You may ask your question.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CALYON: Good afternoon. I wanted to ask if the global slowdown was affecting the level of banks in emerging markets that are looking to add your products or if it is having any kind of effect on the secular growth in terms of bringing on new economies? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: No. It is certainly is not noticeable to us. We continue making progress in emerging countries, some of our biggest successes recently have been and continue to be in that category.

CRAIG MAURER: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from [Julio Kinteros], Goldman Sachs. You may ask your question.

JULIO KINTEROS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Real quickly, Byron, can you just go back through the two largest components of your expense, of your operating expenses looking at personnel, advertising, marketing and promotion and just walk us through how much further or what levels you think you can drive those two as you think about the offsets to slightly lower revenue trajectory over the next two years?

BYRON POLLITT: Let me respond in this way. As you all may recall from the road show, management had identified approximately $300 million of expense opportunity across the enterprise that we were committed to achieving as a part of the combination or merger of the five regions. We believe that of that original commitment, we are about two-thirds of the way through. However, we are also confident that there are additional opportunities beyond the $300 originally committed and that conviction is reflected in our guidance for 2009 and 2010 as it relates to our margins.

JULIO KINTEROS: Okay. Great. And then just can you just rehash the buy back commentary that you made with regard to the Class B shares, please?

BYRON POLLITT: So, the, in the preferred approach that Joe described, what we would --

JULIO KINTEROS: I'm sorry. I meant the timing of it. That's all I need to hear.

BYRON POLLITT: Later second half of the current quarter.

JULIO KINTEROS: Got it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Andrew Jeffrey, SunTrust. You may ask your question.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Hi. Thanks. Can you, Byron, address a little bit the priorities for ad spend and whether you view that as a particular lever, especially given the slowdown in the US. I imagine there's probably a reallocation of advertising and marketing and spending priorities here?

BYRON POLLITT: So, on the -- let's refresh the guidance. The guidance was marketing spending about flat 2009 versus 2008. In previous commentary we have indicated that we are reallocating again an increasingly rigorous return on investment model that we are deploying in marketing. And so using that model that is guiding what we have budgeted for 2009, but we will of course pace our expenditures with regards to the economic environment we find ourselves in and the rate of growth we are generating in revenue.

ANDREW JEFFREY: Okay.

JOE SAUNDERS: I am -- I'd like to add one thing to that. The vast majority of our advertising in 2009 will be targeted at getting people to use plastic when they do whatever they do more frequently than they do today. So in other words, whether the category grows in absolute terms or not, we are dedicated to providing impetus to get people to use the card more. So I want, when you go to Starbucks's, when you to the movie theatre, when you park your car, when you go to the laundromat, when you take a taxi in New York, when you pay your utility bills or any one of a number of bills, I want you to use a Visa debit card and we will have advertising that is directed at doing that.

That's not dissimilar to what we did a year ago when we had people running around in a circle and somebody throwing food in the air when an individual took out cash. That was focused on telling people it is okay to be use a debit card for a small or medium size transaction, it is cool. It is the thing to do. It isn't something that is odd.

ANDREW JEFFREY: Okay.

JOE SAUNDERS: That's how we are are going to direct our advertising.

ANDREW JEFFREY: Thank you. And just to clarify on the comments you made on the contra revenue, does your second half '09 net revenue guidance contemplate a deceleration or decline in contra revenue in addition to lower volume or is that something that could be an increment to the net revenue guidance?

BYRON POLLITT: It is inclusive. So when we guided to the revenue levels in the second half, they were net revenue levels reflective of our associated projections of incentive.

ANDREW JEFFREY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). The next question comes from Pat Burton, Citi. You may ask your question.

PAT BURTON, ANALYST, CITI: Thank you. First a clarification, Joe. Did you say the US payment for credit card was negative in October, it just had turned negative?

JOE SAUNDERS: Yes, I did.

PAT BURTON: Okay. That was a clarification. The second, the question actually is on the international transaction fee, the discussion there, I assume you are just seeing a lot of fall off in airline travel. Would that be a good leading indicator to look at in terms of just physical bodies that are traveling internationally or is there something else driving that number?

JOE SAUNDERS: That's certainly a significant component, but traditionally there's always been a lot of cross border volume between Canada and the United States. That's people in cars going back and forth not necessarily in airplanes. There has been a lot of cross border volume between Mexico and the United States. That may be coming from Tijuana into San Diego. So it isn't all, it isn't by any stretch of the imagination all airplane travel. Cross border activity in Asia given where the countries is not necessarily airplane travel, but it is a big component and it is an indicator.

PAT BURTON: Is it falling globally or is it just falling as it relates to people traveling to the United States?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think it is falling globally. All of our guidance contemplates that. Right now it's a troubled global economy and people are not traveling as much. People are not coming to the United States as much as they did with the dollar strengthening. I mean there's, there's a number of things going on. I think it is going to take a little bit of time to get it sorted out. And we are just putting out guidance that embraces an economy that's pretty undefinable at this particular point in time. We don't want to overshoot anything. So, we are try to go be cautious and conservative in what we suggest.

PAT BURTON: Thank you. Nice job on the cost side, guys.

BYRON POLLITT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Chris Mammone, Deutsche bank. You may ask your question.

CHRIS MAMMONE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. I guess first just a couple of housekeeping questions on cross border. One, what was the growth in cross border last year and then, two, what is the break down in your cross board wither base between credit and debit?

BYRON POLLITT: We will have to, on the growth for last year, let me put it in this context. Cross border volume growth at the beginning of the fiscal year was running in the high 20s globally. As we moved to the third quarter call, we indicated it moved down into the high teens. And then, now you have cross border volume on most recent snapshot now moderating into the high single digits. That gives you a one-year continuum and then cross border for us is primarily credit and roughly three-quarters credit, 25% debit.

CHRIS MAMMONE: Okay. Thanks. Then I guess, Joe can you just update us with your thoughts on the possibility for interchange regulation in the US next year I guess particularly given the likelihood it will have sweeping legislation from Congress probably early '09.

JOE SAUNDERS: We continue to remain optimistic that things are going well in that regard. That doesn't mean that there won't be some noise about it next year. I can't speak for Congress and so I can't tell you when it is going to come up again. But I would think that it would be relatively benign until about the middle of next year. Now, we have a very unique environment that we are operating in and I'm not sure when this will come up. I continue to believe that it is solvable within the framework of the litigation and that there's no need for legislation, and I think that we are going to work in that direction.

BYRON POLLITT: Chris, this is Byron. Let me refine the answer now that we've had a chance to tabulate it. On cross border, roughly a little over 60% credit, 25% debit, a little over 10% ATM cash.

CHRIS MAMMONE: Okay. Great. Thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Dan Perlin, Wachovia. You may ask your question.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, WACHOVIA: Thanks. It is just two parts. One is with credit turning down in the US and debit volumes still sounding like they're running in the mid teens range, it sounds like it is falling exactly as it did during the last recession, and I am wondering if you can highlight a few attributes to your business today that are different from that last recession that gives you conviction to be able to maintain even a double digit overall growth rate?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I mean I think it is clear, that the debit card was in a different part of its evolution in the last recession. We didn't have anywhere near the debit coverage and we continue to expand the merchant categories in which debit cards can be used and we continue to make information as it relates that available to consumers and they seem to embrace it and -- look within all of this guidance that we are giving you we are talking about things predicated on what we see out there in the economy but you can rest assured that in addition to that we are very, very focused on penetrating cash and checks to a greater degree than we have in the past and we will continue to do that. I think that will be a little bit or somewhat of a counterbalance to what is going on in the economy and we are optimistic that that trend is likely to increase rather than decrease.

BYRON POLLITT: I would elaborate by saying that because of the debit phenomena that Joe described, if you go back to the last recession period, the nondiscretionary component of US consumer spend on our Visa cards would have been about 30% and today, because of the debit penetration, it is 40, over 40% with debit cards themselves generating about 53, about 53% nondiscretionary mix of their total spend.

DAN PERLIN: Okay. And then the second part of the question is in the last couple of -- when we go back and look at aggregate data in the last several recessions, one of the things that acted as a secular shift was just net new card issuance. I understand the debit shift. I am wondering what is going be, with net new card issuance certainly 50% of your business not going up next year in the US, what is ultimately going to be that secular shift that supports again that kind of double digit growth?

BYRON POLLITT: First of all, we're talking about the double digit growth coming from debit product in this environment and I don't expect that to change in 2009. We have also talked about international. We talked about the fact that that is continuing to grow at robust rates and frankly most of that is credit card business. It is not that we don't have the debit penetration outside the United States that we do inside the United States. That's an opportunity we talked about quite frequently on the IPO road trip, what we call filling out the cube, if you will, taking technology that has worked for us and business practices that have worked for us in the United States and moving them into other parts of the world.

I think that what I just tacked about in our relationship with HSBC is an example of moving debit cards into other regions, but the answer is we are growing outside the United States particularly in credit volume. We have an opportunity to grow debit volume outside the United States and we have an opportunity to grow debit volume within the United States and I would assume that at some point in time the credit volume is going stabilize.

DAN PERLIN: Excellent. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Greg Smith, Merrill Lynch. You may ask your question.

GREG SMITH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Yes. Hi, guys. What kind of foreign currency impact do you expect on foreign revenues in '09?

BYRON POLLITT: So let me, this is Byron. Let me give you a preset. If we look back on the year just completed, 2008, we projected about 2 percentage points of our revenue growth came from FX movements, tailwind so to speak. As we look to 2009, recognizing that there has been some significant volatility and we are not in a position to fully predict how it will play out, but on the revenue growth side, that tailwind will turn into a headwind and we are looking at low single digit revenue growth impacts in the coming year 2009 and even smaller impact but still negative on the earnings growth impacts since (inaudible) to get your ultimate impact on the P&L.

GREG SMITH: Okay. Then this buy back you would like to do, the $1.1 billion. How will that be priced? Is it just going to be literally be based off the current stock price at some pine in time or is there some liquidity discount that might benefit you?

BYRON POLLITT: I would say stay tuned for that, but it is a market-based price and then we will evaluate at that time whether and what level of discount would be appropriate.

GREG SMITH: Okay. Hopefully big. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani, KBW. You may ask your question.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KBW: Thank you. I appreciate all of the color on the updated targets but I wanted to make sure I got it all. Byron, can you just rehash the stress case on payment volume and cross border volume to arrive at the low end of that 11% to 15% and then maybe you could also stress the top line to get to that 20% EPS growth?

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to the guidance that we gave what we said was that we felt very confident delivering our margins and our earnings growth if the cross border volumes rent as low as what? So the extent that that constitutes a stress case, that's what we mean by that. And could you repeat the second part of your question?

SANJAY SAKHRANI: No, I just wanted to make sure I understood the lowest payment volume could go and cross border could go and then subsequently how low could the top line go to get to the 20%?

BYRON POLLITT: That we did not specifically comment on. We took, we have clearly assessed the environment the best we can ahead and we are very focused. The environment has a lot to do with revenue. We are very focused with regards to delivering our margins and delivering the net income growth and EPS growth that we have committed and so management stands ready to take a variety of steps in order to protect the commitment of earnings and EPS growth.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay. Because I thought you mentioned like the payment volume in the second quarter should come at the midpoint or the fiscal second quarter at the midpoint of the range. The second two quarters.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes. I think you are confusing something. When we, what we were we referring to was net revenue growth. What we said in the first fiscal quarter is that expect net revenue growth to come in at the upper end of our guidance range. What Joe said about the second quarter, second fiscal quarter, is that we expect to come in in the mid range of our guidance and that the second half of the year, Q3 and 4, could potentially find single digit revenue growth in one or both of those quarters and that collectively that would be consistent with coming in at the lower end of our guidance range on a full-year basis.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay, okay. Great. Thank you. And Joe maybe one question.

JOE SAUNDERS: I want to add one thing, I did, I did say that if you are asking for the stressed case. I did say that even in a down side scenario that saw only mid to high single digit revenue growth in 2010 we can sustain our EPS and our operating.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay. And that applies to 2009 as well?

JOE SAUNDERS: Oh yes.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay. Got it. Joe, maybe one thing on integration, where are we with extracting kind of revenue and expense synergies from the consolidation of all the various regions? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Where are we? I mean I think it is, I think to get to a point where you wake up and think everything is going pretty well. It is about a three-year process. I think we are probably further along than that kind of benchmark might suggest but we are moving there and I think you can expect to see improvement in our expenses over the course of the year as we suggested.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay. Great. Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Jose, at this point we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: And for the last question, Bruce Harting, Barclays. You may ask your question.

BRUCE HARTING, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: Rest of world credit percentage growth in constant dollars stayed reasonably flat quarter-over-quarter while US continued to fall at a fairly rapid rate and you said through October actually turned credit turned negative. As you look forward to the balance or into 2009 and early '10, is it conceivable in terms of your saying that given the quarterly progression where you are saying middle of the range and second quarter lower end of the range and second half next year that rest of world credit and debit stays reasonably flat or are they just really lagging the US in terms of the slowdown? Then just how low has, could US get in terms of credit growth from previous downturns? Thanks.

BYRON POLLITT: This is Byron. Let me start by saying the growth rates we gave you for rest of world payment volume growth were nominal not constant. We recorded 25% payment volume growth nominal in the fourth quarter. And so what we have indicated is that those have moderated down and that has been factored into the guidance that we have given and I think Joe's answer to the last question, which outlined our stress case as someone described it is, is how we are trying to be helpful on this subject. US credit has turned negative, but given but just and that has happened very few times in our history even during recession. So, we have, we tried to be helpful without guiding to very specific assumption with regards to payment volume by line item. We have tried to be helpful by saying where we are positioning our revenue growth in each of our quarters, how we expect that, how we expect to end the year and then how we expect to map that into our earnings growth. Okay.

JOE SAUNDERS: Thank you, all, very much. If anyone has any follow up questions, please feel free to call investor relations.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call. The call has concluded. You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020081112e4at0030k
  


 HD
 Q3  2008  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,960 words
   PD
30 July 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Visa, Inc.'s third quarter earnings conference call. All participants are in a listen only mode. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time. I would like to turn the call to your host, Mr. Jack Carsky, head of Investor Relations for Visa Incorporated. Sir, you may begin.

   TD
JACK CARSKY, IR, VISA INC.: Thanks, Kelly. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa, Inc.'s, fiscal third quarter earnings conference call. Speaking today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, our Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast live over the internet. It can be accessed on investor relations section on our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay of the website cost be archived on our site. A PowerPoint deck containing highlights of the commentary was posted to the website prior to this call. Let me please remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and as a result of a variety of factors, actual results may differ materially from such statements.

Additional information concerning those factors is available in the company's filings with the SEC which can be accessed through the SEC website and the investor relation section of the Visa website. For historical nonGAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other regulation required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal third quarter earnings press release. This release can be also accessed through the investor relations section of our website. With that, I will turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VISA INC.: Thanks, Jack. And thanks to all of you for joining us this afternoon. For some time now we have been saying that Visa, while not immune to economic downturn does have a high degree of resiliency embedded in this business model. The proof of this resiliency can be seen in our latest earnings results. For fiscal third quarter 2008 Visa's net income on an adjusted basis was $457 million which is a 40% increase over the prior year's third quarter on a pro forma basis. This equates to adjusted diluted earnings of $0.59 per share. Net operating revenues in fiscal third quarter were strong at $1.6 billion or an increase of 18% over the third quarter of 2007 on a pro forma basis as we again saw strong growth across all fee categories. As anticipated, we are seeing operating revenues running more in line with our long-term guidance and volume growth rates and we expect this dynamic to continue. Last year's price adjustments which were in full effect by Q3 of 2007 had a much more muted impact than the third quarter's results this year. Byron will discuss the individual revenue line items in a moment.

We have also begun to realize the positive impact of our operating scale and our efforts in reorganizing Visa as a publicly traded company. Revenue growth is strong and our expense base is currently growing at a very modest rate. We delivered operating margins ahead of our internal expectations and external guidance over the span of our short public life. Given the opportunities to continue to leverage the scale and effectively manage our expenses, we are increasing our longer term adjusted operating margin guidance to the mid to high 40% range. Byron will get into the additional detail in a moment.

From a broader economic perspective the financial markets in the economy, particularly here in the US, have clearly seen their share of turmoil since we last reported earnings at the end of April. Our expectation going into our fiscal 2008 year was for a tougher economic times in the back half of the year and our revenue guidance contemplated this. During the first three fiscal quarters we have exceeded our guidance and although the tougher climate is now here and will likely continue, we expect the fourth quarter -- the fourth fiscal quarter to be at the upper end of our revenue guidance range. For the calendar quarter ending June 2008 on which are fourth fiscal quarter's US fee service revenue will be based, payment volume in the US though softening has held up pretty well. So what does this mean for Visa? As we have publicly stated our business model remains resilient though not totally immune to the tough economic environment in the US and to some extent globally. We continue to see secular shift to plastic, particularly in our debit products in the US and international volumes including cross boarder transactions are posting solid double digit growth.

We continue to see increases in consumer driven nondiscretionary spending on cards. Through the end of June US consumer nondiscretionary spend as a percentage of total spend is up two percentage points over the end of 2007, and now represents 44% of overall Visa consumer payments volume in the United States. The 2% increase is represented by increased debit and credit card usage. So while we were maintaining a cautious posture, we were optimistic about the future. On the legislative front we had a busy quarter as well. As we were no longer subject to the IPO restrictions while speaking our company, we were able to make good headway in Washington on the issue of interchange and Visa's part in the process. This involved a significant amount of outreach committees and their members, as well as testimony from our management team. While there is no way of knowing for certain what the final outcome will be, we feel better knowing that the issues are being appropriately debated. We would also note that there has been opposition to the Conyers bill on both sides of the aisle as well as from consumer groups, credit union coalitions and the Department of Justice. We will continue to actively participate in legislative and regulatory activities which affect our industry.

On the litigation front, there are a few developments to report in the Discover action which is a covered case on Visa's retrospective responsibility plan. We recently entered into a judgment sharing agreement which allocates payment responsibilities between Visa and MasterCard for judgments or settlements in the Discover case, with Visa's share being larger primarily based on relevant volumes. At the same time we entered into a mutual release agreement in which Visa and MasterCard release any claims each may have against the other in connection to prior business practices. This includes MasterCard's claims recording Visa settlement service fee which is references in the SEC filings is not a covered claim under our retrospective responsibility plan. As a result of these agreements, we increased our litigation reserve for the quarter by $31 million on an after tax basis. Because the Discover litigation and related claims are nonrecurring legacy items, we have not included these reserves in our adjusted income figures. With that let me turn the call to Byron who will take you through the financial results, and I will be back to provide more detail around some of the newer initiatives we have recently saw.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. If we are discussing the P&L, let me highlight some of the business and revenue driver from the quarter. Payment volume which is the key driver of revenue grew 19% to $652 billion over the same quarter of 2007, as we continued to see strong results across all of our regions. Credit growth which was just under 19% worldwide while growing here in the US at a little over 8%, compared to debit in aggregate which grew closer to 20%, made up of a solid 16% growth domestically and a strong 44% internationally. We continued to view the secular migration to debit and the opening up of additional payment categories as very attractive near-term opportunities.

For the calendar quarter through the end of June we have experienced continued solid payment volume growth in the US up 10%. Though moderating a bit from the 12% we recorded for the March quarter, we have seen a fairly consistent monthly rate through the end of June and continuing into July. Cross border volume growth which is currently growing at a robust mid to high teens rate has trended lower as well from the mid-20% range we experienced through March. The exception to this has been our CEMEA region which continues to grow in the mid-30%s range. From an overall payment volume perspective we believe the combination of US debit and international growth will continue to provide growth momentum to our business in spite of the increasingly challenging economic backdrop.

Total transactions including payment and cash transactions were up 15% to $13.2 billion in the quarter ending March 2008 versus the prior year. While the US grew approximately 12% during the period, we saw very strong gains across the globe highlighted by our CEMEA region by 24% and Asia/Pacific and Latin America at 20% and 18% representatively. Process transactions for those that we define as being processed over Visa's network totaled $9.5 billion in the fiscal third quarter, an increase of 13% over the similar period a year ago. This transaction growth drove strong gains in data processing fees which rose 20% over the prior year to $539 million. Card growth for the period ending March was up 14% excluding Europe with over 1.6 billion cards now carrying the Visa brand. Credit grew 14% to 814 million cards, while debit rose 15% to 850 million cards. On an international basis, credit card growth was very strong growing 19% year-over-year while international debit cards grew 16%.

Moving on to the income statement. Gross revenues of $1.9 billion were up 23% from the year ago period's $1.5 billion. Volume and support incentives increased by $99 million to $274 million, representing 15% of gross revenue. For the fourth fiscal quarter we see volume and support incentives running at around 16% of gross revenue. Total net operating revenues were just over $1.6 billion and 18% increase over the pro forma operating revenues of $1.4 billion reported for the third quarter of 2007. As we stated on last quarter's earnings call, price adjustments made in nonUS regions that were fully implemented in the fiscal third quarter of 2007 are no longer influencing year-over-year comparables to as large degree as they have in previous quarters, though the impact is still positive.

During the quarter we observed certain dynamics across all of our key fee categories that continue to re-enforce our belief that our business model can sustain attractive growth despite a weakened US economy. Globally, service fees were $749 million, up 13% over the pro forma results of the prior year period reflective of higher year-over-year payment volumes in all regions. Data protesting fees posted strong gains rising 20% over the year to $539 million. We continue to benefit from the greater transaction volumes domestically while continuing our focus on increasing the number of transactions we processed internationally. International transaction fees were up 44% to $449 million and continue to benefit from higher multicurrency payment volumes across all regions, as well as from pricing adjustments we made in April this year to cross border transactions involving US issued cards.

As mentioned earlier, cross border transactions remain strong although we are starting to observe a moderation in the growth rate. Our adjusted operating margin was approximately 45% this quarter an increase of approximately seven percentage points over the similar period last year. The combination of 18% net revenue growth with 4% expense growth drove this margin expansion and resulted in a 42% increase in operating income. Given our performance through the third fiscal quarter and despite our expectation for modest margin compression in the fourth quarter, we now expect to deliver an adjusted mid-40%s margin for all of fiscal 2008, ahead of our initial long-term guidance of the low 40%s. As we look out to 2009 and beyond, the resilience of our business model combined with opportunities for additional operating leverage make us comfortable raising our adjusted operating margin guidance to the mid to high 40% range as part of our outlook through fiscal 2010.

On an adjusted basis, operating expenses for the quarter increased $31 million or 3.6% year-over-year to $883 million, as modest increases in personnel, network and marketing costs were offset by lower professional and consulting fee expenses. On a sequential quarter basis adjusted expenses increased by $100 million primarily as a result of stepped up marketing and advertising costs, to measure it with mid May kick-off of our Olympic programs and modestly higher professional fees tied to our new product initiatives.

In the fourth quarter we anticipate further increases in marketing and advertising spend tied both to the Olympics and marketing programs ahead of the fourth fourth calendar quarter holiday season. All totaled marking and advertising spend should total about $1 billion in fiscal 2008. We also expect a step up in professional fees tied to supporting the new product and channel initiatives which Joe will speak about in a moment. Capital expenditures were $86 million in the quarter, over half of which are dedicated to the build-out of our new data center. Full year capital spending is expected in the range of $425 million and $450 million. As we had previously stated, we expect capital expenditures to remain at an elevated level through the end of fiscal 2009, as we complete our new data processing center. After this we expect CapEx to run at around 3% to 4% of gross revenue on an annualized basis.

Moving on to balance sheet we ended the third quarter with cash, cash equivalent, available for sale investments and restricted cash of $8.4 billion, an increase of approximately $400 million over the prior quarter. Of this total there is restricted cash of approximately $2 billion which represent the balance of the $3 billion litigation escrow established at the IPO less the initial payment to American Express of $945 million last quarter and their first quarterly payment of $70 million. In addition we intend to use $2.7 billion of cash to redeem all of the series II and the portion of the series III class-C shares this October that are held by Visa Europe. As mentioned previously given our sizable and growing cash balances, we are very focused on not allowing excess cash to build up on our balance sheet. And to that end we will be considering a share repurchase program as early as the first fiscal quarter of 2009.

Now I would like to comment on what we see over the balance of 2008. As I mentioned a moment ago we entered 2008 with the expectation that a softer US economy would have an effect on our payment volume and revenue growth over the next several quarters, and we are now starting to see that impact. We also have a pretty clear view into our US payment volumes from April through June which will be reflected in our service fee revenue in our fourth fiscal quarter. Based on this early view we are still running at the higher end of our stated revenue guidance range of 11% to 15%. As noted earlier, we are increasing adjusted operating margin guidance from the low 40% range to the mid-40% range for fiscal 2008, and over the longer term, 2009 to 2010 to the mid to high 40% range. We also remain on track to deliver adjusted diluted earnings per share growth of greater than 20% and to annual free cash flow exceeding $1 billion. That concludes my comments. So I will turn the call back over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS: Thanks, Byron. Before we begin the question and answer period, let me touch on some of the longer term initiatives and progress we have seen over the past several months. As many of you know on our IPO road show we outlined a series of near term and longer term strategic priorities that we would be investing in to support our growth. Near term we talked about the opportunity to export many of the successful programs we established here in the US like our affluent credit programs, Visa signature and Visa infinite and our debit card product.

Executing on these initiatives continues to represent a significant opportunity and will have an influence of our 2009 plan. Longer term opportunities we have identified include money transfer, prepaid, mobile payments and eCommerce. Many of these innovations are already operational in Visa regions worldwide and under Visa's new structure can be scaled more easily on a global basis. Though these initiatives are relatively small today in relation to our total volume. We see opportunity to invest in these programs and use our brand and business scale and drive incremental transactions on the Visa network over the longer term. Of note is Visa's money transfer service where we continue to build momentum. Today we are announcing the extension of Visa's card base money transfer service to millions of additional card holders with the launch of new services in Indonesia and expansion of a program in Singapore. Specifically Bank Mandiri, Indonesia's largest bank, is making Visa money transfer available to approximately eight million debit card holders. The service will allow Bank Mandiri's card holder to send money through any of the banks 3,000 ATMs to any other Visa card holder in Indonesia.

Recipients are able to use the money to make purchases, pay bills or withdraw cash from any Visa or Plus ATM anywhere Visa is accepted in the world. Additionally, Singapore Post Limited plans to expand its recently launched money transfer service to automated machines that will be available to card holders 24 hours a day. The service facilitates money transfer from customers in Singapore to Visa card holders in nine countries including China, Indonesia and the United Kingdom. Today's announcement builds on our existing stable of 46 Visa money transfer programs that have been rolled out in 13 countries. We believe the scale and reach of Visa's global network ideally positions us to capitalize on the money transfer opportunities in the long term.

Another important area of investment for Visa is prepaid, which we believe is critical to unlocking new opportunities worldwide. By offering consumers the option to pay ahead, Visa is able to reach new demographics such as unbanked or underbanked and expand relationships with clients including: governments, businesses, health care providers and merchants. One of our best success stories to date is government benefits. In the US, 35 states participate in 58 Visa prepaid programs to disburse funds including child support, unemployment insurance, workers comp and other assistance instead of checks. Last month the state of Michigan launches a prepaid program to deliver unemployment insurance funds which will provide consumers with safe and convenient option for checks and bring cost savings to the state. Around the globe Visa prepaid products are bringing significant value to consumers who rely heavily on cash and checks.

Last week Visa and Absa Bank, a subsidiary of Barclays, introduced the first reloadable prepaid cards in South Africa. In June Visa in Taiwan Cooperative Bank launched Taiwan's first general purpose reloadable prepaid card, further extending the reach Visa's prepaid programs to underserved consumers. Mobile payments are a great opportunity but also a great complexity as multiple wireless standards and operating systems exist around the globe. To address these challenges we launched the Visa mobile platform last year, a suite of technologies that enables Visa, it's clients and mobile operators to engage in trial activities and more rapidly developed commercially scalable mobile services. While more work must be done Visa has successfully launched a range of mobile services that are in market or being tested today with card holders in 14 countries around the world including the US, Australia, Canada, Taiwan and Brazil.

With more than 3.5 billion mobile devices in the market around the world, 80% of world's population living within range of a cellular network, we believe Visa has a significant opportunity to build on our leadership, extend our products and services to new geographies and drive more electronic transactions to VisaNet.

As we have stated in the past our focus on the eCommerce base was designed to increase our industry leading 47% payment penetration here in the United States. We are developing enhanced checkout, gateway and online authentication services to improve merchant and card holder experiences. In fact we expect to bring to market the next upgrade of online authentication later this year. We are also in the process of further advancing cross border functionality especially between the U.S. and Latin America and U.S. and Asia. More recently in India we launched emarketplace in association with ICICI Bank, one of the largest financial institutions in that country, enabling end to end execution of procurement and payment over the internet using their Visa purchasing card. This is the first Visa emarketplace service to be launched in Asia/Pacific. As always, we will continue to update on these initiatives as they progress. With that, we're ready to take your questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) The first question is from Bob Napoli of Piper Jaffray.

BOB NAPOLI, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Thank you. Good afternoon, and congratulations on a very good quarter. Question -- I think it would have been a bigger surprise if you had not raised your operating income margin guidance. But I wondered if you could break it down on what drove the income guidance -- the increase. Is it lower volume and support agreements, or general better efficiency than what you expected? What drove that increase?

BYRON POLLITT: So -- this is Byron. The math of it is, as we continue to drive strong double digit gains in revenue above our initial expectations this year so we delivered 18% this quarter and on that a four -- only a 4% increase in expenses and we were able to sustain higher levels of revenue growth for this year compared to our original expectations. We became more confident that we could sustain a margin higher than with a we had originally anticipated and therefore felt confident in adjusting the margin guidance.

BOB NAPOLI: Just a followup. Do you think there is a natural cap on your guidance driven by volume support agreement demands from customers, or -- I just wondered if you could comment?

JOE SAUNDERS: The way we have chosen to respond to margin expectations is with our guidance, and so over the next two years we believe that we can sustain margins operating margins in the mid to high 40%s. And that is as far out as we are looking at margins today.

BOB NAPOLI: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Tien-Tsin Huang of JPMorgan.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. A couple of quarters, I -- couple questions per quarter. First, Byron, the cross border volume trends, what is the geographic exposure that you have there and what regions are you seeing growth moderate the most?

BYRON POLLITT: What we be -- what would say on the cross border volume is that we are maintaining very, very strong robust growth outside the United States, even though it has moderated a bit, as we said on the call, it is still mid to high teens in terms of growth. And that growth is very healthy across the globe outside the United States. The growth rates are still very positive in -- are still positive in the US, but where we are seeing more of the impact in the US than anywhere else in particular. And CEMEA of course was a call out of maintaining 30% plus growth rates on cross border.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Is your exposure to the US and cross border similar to your overall exposure in the US in terms of purchase volume?

BYRON POLLITT: What we say is it's a well diversified portfolio of cross border.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay. Fair enough. And just wanted to confirm that you expect fourth quarter revenues to be at the high end of your 11% to 15% range?

JOE SAUNDERS: That's correct. The annualized guidance is 11% to 15%. When you apply that to the fourth fiscal quarter what we are suggesting is that our performance consistent with coming in at the higher end of that range net revenue for the fourth quarter.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay. So that's the case, just trying to understand, what would you have to shift from the 18% growth in the third quarter to roughly 15% in the fourth quarter?

BYRON POLLITT: We have annualized a number of price adjustments that are having -- really we're coming to the end of their full effect, and we already are informed by the US volume which is consistent with the -- on a month to month basis has been consistently delivering around a 10% payment volume growth from March forward. And with moderating impact that we eluded to in our cross border volume, we would see a somewhat marginal decline in our revenue growth from 18% which we delivered this quarter to the upper end of our guidance range, 11% to 15%.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Got it. That's helpful. Nice work on the expenses.

JOE SAUNDERS: Pardon?

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: That's helpful. Thank you. I was just saying nice work on the expenses.

JOE SAUNDERS: Great. Thank you. More to come.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Adam Frisch of UBS.

ADAM FRISCH, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, good afternoon, guys, and congratulations on a great quarter. In my conversations with investors I get the feeling that most people are focused on a slower consumer but forgetting on the secular trends that are a corner stone to our thesis. So can you address this with what you are seeing in your payment trends whether a shift from credit to debit or other factors that make us feel good that the model is still holding up and there are secular trends at play here? And also describe the hedging that your volume support line offers. I'm assuming it works well in a slow down but a melt down might be a different kind of story if the consumer fell off the cliff. So if you could address those from those two perspectives.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me start with the hedging. With regards to our FX exposure on revenue, which is one way of looking at this, our revenue lift is roughly 2%. And with regards to the overall exposure to the cross border volume, I think we have a very well diversified set of strong growth rates cross region. So in that regard, we feel that if the economy falls in any one particular country or region, we are well diversified, and then an increasing number of our contract are multiyear in nature and therefore have incentive clauses that will vary by volume.

And so if a volume falls in any of these -- or if the growth rate in any of these contracts slows down, we have a natural adjustment as it relates to our -- the way the incentive formulas work. So while not immune to a slowdown in any part of the world or in any particular economy or client, we do have I think a well diversified set of factors that will help make our business less vulnerable and more resilient.

ADAM FRISCH: Okay. Pricing impact on the quarter you said was more muted. Should we anticipate any change in the near term there that could get the growth rate up a little bit up than we are expecting?

BYRON POLLITT: I would suggest that you go back to our guidance. We have fully factored in all the factors including pricing adjustments that would impact our net revenue growth. And we feel very good about high end of that 11% to 15% range for the fourth quarter fiscal quarter. And we feel very good about delivering in that range within -- over the two years, 2009 and 2010 at this point.

ADAM FRISCH: Okay. Last question here, I was going to ask about cost, but the card-based remittance initiative I have to ask because it's been a long time coming from what we have been writing about. How is this tracking in the markets? It's been around in awhile. And are you gaining new customers or taking share from traditional players?

JOE SAUNDERS: I'm not sure I understand the question.

ADAM FRISCH: On the card base remittance programs that you already have out there, how have they been tracking in terms of growth, and are you gaining new customers or taking share from traditional players? In other words the new customers being people that never spent money before.

JOE SAUNDERS: In general we are gaining new customers. We were offering a new service to our own customers and it's being done on a global basis. And it's being done between many different and varying countries. It isn't a US to Latin America or a US to Asia-centric program. I don't think it's big enough to say we stolen share from anyone.

ADAM FRISCH: Okay. Thanks, guys. Great job.

BYRON POLLITT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Dan Perlin of Wachovia.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, WACHOVIA: Thanks. Just a couple quick questions. One is if you could maybe decouple your international fee growth was up over 40% I think, Byron, you mentioned your transaction were in the mid to high teens maybe low 20%s, and that affects -- has an impact there. Can you talk about reconciling the transaction growth that drove that along with FX so we can figure out what the pricing component of that was?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes. So, Dan, the balance -- the primary component of the difference between the two, remember, this is an area where we have probably done the most in terms of price adjustments over the past year or so. And what you're seeing is the impact of those initially with cards issued outside of the United States. As recently as April we took some steps that would increase the revenue impact based on cards issued in the United States.

JOE SAUNDERS: And that's the primary explanation for the difference between what we reported in aggregate and the percentage increase in transaction.

DAN PERLIN: Okay. And is there another one that we should be think being as we go into 2009?

BYRON POLLITT: On the international side, we have not announced anything. And with regards to pricing in general, all of that has -- let me assure you, we take appropriate steps that make good business sense to our customers and clients, and all of that is reflected in the guidance we have given you for the fourth quarter and for the next two years.

DAN PERLIN: Excellent. And on the other revenue line, that was up quite a bit as well. Were there is pricing adjustments that you took advantage of there?

BYRON POLLITT: No.

DAN PERLIN: Can you remind us consumer inflation, the impact that you have on your nondiscretionary spending line? Is that playing a meaningful role in the quarters or not so much?

JOE SAUNDERS: We haven't looked at that and evaluated. Our sense would be short of certain commodities that have increased significantly in price that that's generally not so much a factor.

DAN PERLIN: Okay. Questioning on the marketing and advertising spending you gave us a number of $1 billion for the full year, so that implies somewhere around $300 million. What is in last year's number because that number would be down pretty significantly year-over-year? Were there some one-time items? I just forget. On a year-over-year basis year over year down pretty significantly.

JOE SAUNDERS: Good question. I know that it will be of interest in many to figure out how to seasonally model our marketing. And it's simply too early or just premature to try and do that at this point. You have the math right in terms of the $300 million or so, given that we got three quarters of actual. As we indicated I think on a prior call we still have a relatively new in place Chief Marketing Officer who is rationalizing our marketing spend globally, reprioritizing it based on return on investment and as a result, it is not something to count on as prologue. And as we develop a more normalized cadence in our marketing then we will highlight that for you and you will be able to model.

DAN PERLIN: Excellent. Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Next question is from Liz Grausam of Goldman Sachs.

LIZ GRAUSAM, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Just wanted to ask another question around your US volume and the comments you made earlier. You had about 12% total payments volume in the March quarter in the US and I think you said that went to 10% from the March of March through the month of June. Is that the correct progression to think about? And also was that dominantly driven by further deceleration in credit from March to June, or did you also see your debit portfolio decelerate in growth?

JOE SAUNDERS: What we said was the growth in the growth in US volume was about 10% from March through this month. And so the 12% to 10% is on a quarter to quarter basis and what that would suggest was that the growth was more robust in January and February, but since March it has been very consistent. So the answer is we don't see a lot of movement in the volume or we haven't seen much movement in volume in the US since February. And February's growth rate was influenced to some extent by the fact that there were 29 days in February.

LIZ GRAUSAM: Okay. And the deceleration you saw in January and February through to March to June, was that dominantly in credit or in both credit and debit? Was it blended?

JOE SAUNDERS: Dominantly it would be more pronounced in credit.

LIZ GRAUSAM: Great. And another question on your service fees similar to the question Dan asked around your international fees, the service fee growth in the quarter was about 13% revenue growth, but it was on 19% volume. It's the first time we seen revenue growth actually below the volume growth. But yet the incentive line was also lighter. Can you help us understand the balance between thinking pricing in the gross service fees and how that mechanism works with your incentive fees?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes. More to come on this later, Liz. I think from our perspective it's premature to look for quarter to quarter patterns until we can normalize our operations now that we're in for profit mode. We have everything from seasonality price adjustments, FX movements. And until we can get into a more normalized cadence it's hard for us to provide a thoughtful explanation as to both -- particularly the sequential growth. Year-over-year is easier but the sequential is harder until we can do it better job -- until we can accelerate through the normalization of a for profit company.

LIZ GRAUSAM: Great. Thank you.

BYRON POLLITT: More to come on this one.

JOE SAUNDERS: But on a sequential basis the previous quarter included December.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question is from Craig Moore of [Killian].

CRAIG MOORE, ANALYST, KILLIAN: Yes. Good afternoon. I was hoping you could comment on the spending from your signature customers as we saw big fall off in American Express' numbers and their card holders are viewed to be at the upper tier. So I was wondering if you could comment if there is any unusual dropoff in your signature cards versus your standard Visa cards. Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Actually, our signature volume has held up very, very well. And as a matter of fact, it's significantly up on a year-over-year basis. It's our traditional card volume that is down. I talked about that last quarter. I -- you're asking me a question about significant cards versus Amex in general. And while they have a huge component of that and I can't for them and they have gotten into lending a lot of money.

CRAIG MOORE: Thanks, Joe.

OPERATOR: Next question is from Pat Burton with Citi.

PAT BURTON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, congratulations on the quarter and taking the targets up. I guess I will ask about the tax rate. Byron, it looks like you are looking for a higher tax rate this year and progressing lower from the 41% level?

BYRON POLLITT: That's correct. So just to repeat expectations, so as we came in -- as we completed our restructuring in October and for the first time assembled our five businesses we had no corporate tax planning and as a result we find ourselves unenviably at about a 41% rate. And we are engaging in what we would describe as kind of classic global tax planning, and over the next five years expect to get down into the 36% range, and would expect in the year to come to fiscal year 2009 to generate at least one to two percentage points reduction in that tax rate.

PAT BURTON: Okay. And would you expect 41% in the fourth quarter?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes. Note that we apply a -- when we do our adjusted earnings, we apply a 41% tax rate from a book standpoint we actually have some adjustments that we have described in our financial statements that are largely due to purchase accounting, and therefore do not have a cash impact on our tax rate. So to assume something in the vicinity of 41% as a cash tax rate for the fourth quarter would be fair.

PAT BURTON: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Next question is from David Hochstim of Buckingham Research.

DAVID HOCHSTIM, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Yes. Hi. I wonder could you provide more color on what you are seeing so far in terms of marketing spending and where they are some opportunities to shift dollars, and also provide us color on US credit card card spending? You mentioned that signature volume was up a lot. But are there any other noteworthy trends graphically and other products?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think that what we have said is that credit card spending in general is much softer, it's not down, but it's marginally up in the low single digits. So our debit card spending on the other hand has continued to grow and is very robust. Signature cards are not the predominant part of our overall volume.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: Can you give us an update on terms of what percentage is volume is on signature now?

JOE SAUNDERS: We don't break that out right now.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: And in terms of marketing, I guess looking at expenses overall as it becomes a for profit company have you started your review of expenditures around the world, what kinds of things are you seeing that are opportunities?

JOE SAUNDERS: We first thought we would have an opportunity to consolidate the way we spend money by consolidating agencies and running the marketing environment out of a single place. We obviously have marketing people in all of our regions that support our marketing efforts. But it is more singularly and more effectively driven and it certainly will be in 2009 that's improved over the year of 2008. As it relates to where we spend money or how we spend money, we spend money predicated on a pretty rigid ROI model. And we are looking at opportunities in different regions in the world where we think we can make a difference.

DAVID HOCHSTIM: Okay. And then can you tell us -- I think there is an uptick in investment income this quarter. Was there anything --

BYRON POLLITT: We are carrying higher gas balances and that's the principle reason. We were getting more yield, but it's principally higher cash balances.

OPERATOR: Next question is Chris Brentler of Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Hi. Thanks. Good afternoon. Just to beat down on the pricing a little bit more. The international fee increase in cross border -- in April, that's the only significant pricing increase in the second quarter?

BYRON POLLITT: That is the principal price increase.

CHRIS BRENDLER: And that actually affected the fiscal third quarter revenues you just reported?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, think of that as beginning in the fiscal third quarter.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. So I guess I'm trying to understand is a couple things. We talked about the pressure I guess on service fees. You look at the volume in service fees relative to the revenues, the margin there has got squeezed a little bit, and your guidance for fourth quarter revenues at the high end of your guidance. What kind of volume are you assuming for the fourth quarter? Is the margin it continuing to compress a little bit, or is there anything else that we aren't discussing yet in terms of pricing that would cause the service fees to bounce back a little bit in the September quarter?

JOE SAUNDERS: So obviously there are a lot of factors that go into a projection. The way that we have tried to be helpful with this is to give you a combination of revenue guidance, 11% to 15% upper end of that range for the fourth quarter, and to do that which reflects all of the initiatives we have underway including anything that we may have done on the pricing front, and then to combine that with a margin expectation, which as you noticed we have moved our margin guidance up for the full year to mid-40%s, although we do expect some margin compression in the fourth quarter. But that is less about revenue and much more about an increase in marketing spend which we called out as well as professional fees associated with new product initiatives. So that's much more expense driven, that margin compression.

And then with regards to the impact that any other action we might take with -- in the pricing front, all of that is reflected in the revenue guidance we have given for 2009 and '10, which again we have given all of you with an expectation of operating margins associated with that which gives you the type of operating leverage we expect to deliver. And of course on this call we have raised that from mid to mid to high 40%s with 11% to 15% annual revenue guidance. That's how we tried to be helpful on this front.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. Let me ask just one more way. I don't quite understand your answer to Liz's question on the service fees as well. What are the quarter to quarter variances? How does FX impact that line? One thing I was thinking about is that you are seeing slower growth in credit and debit may be lower margin on a revenue basis, so that's impacting a little bit. Anything else you can call out quarter to quarter that would impact? I wasn't sure you are referring to in your earlier answer on the service fees.

JOE SAUNDERS: Again, I would just say nothing to call out at this time. There are just a number of factors that vary from quarter to quarter, and as I mentioned before, seasonality and incentives. FX is definitely a part, the timing and impact of price adjustments. All these things in order to be helpful ultimately with an answer that can inform models model so that you can get better projections, we have to sort that out and we are doing it in a year -- in our first year is public company. And we are simply not at a normalized rate where we are prepared to give a thoughtful point of view on that kind of break down. So if you will just bear with us a bit longer we will be happy to be more informative as we get it into a more normalized operating mode.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. One final just clarification repeat. The deceleration in cross border activity, you said that's more pronounced in the US. How much more pronounced? Is it relatively stable outside of the US or slowing outside of the US?

JOE SAUNDERS: We didn't guide to that. What we was that back in March it was back to mid to high 20%s. What we are seeing today is mid to high teens. So it has moderated but is it still very robust at mid to high teens. And as you would expect, the US given its economic backdrop will be feeling that a bit more than the other region outside the US.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is Sanjay Sakhrani of KBW.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KBW: Thank you. Most of my questions were asked, but a quick question maybe on the supply side. Have you guys seen noticeable trends from your financial institution and financial institution partners in pulling back account lines or decelerating account growth?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think it's clear that there is some of that going on, it's a fairly difficult environment. But remember, our income is driven by activity. And that means that we are primarily influenced by card holders that are not at the -- pushing the top of their credit and they are not delinquent. These are not the types of bank consumers that drive much volume through our system. So it's harder for me to discern those trends, and the data we would have on it would be at least a quarter old.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay. Great. And clarification on the litigation commentary. That $31 million, that's all for the Discover litigation?

BYRON POLLITT: No. What we said was that the -- as a result of a review of our litigation portfolio that -- and agreements that we entered into, that it was appropriate for us to take a FAS5 litigation reserve against legacy cases that we do not expect to repeat going forward. And so as you can appreciate it is not our practice to discuss ongoing litigation. But the reserve is a FAS5 reserve associated with the case that would not be covered by our retrospective responsibility plan.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay.

JOE SAUNDERS: That is related to the Discover litigation.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Andrew Jeffrey of SunTrust, you may ask your question.

ANDREW JEFFREY, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Hi. Thanks. Byron, just to maybe on a more qualitative basis, I look at the volume and support incentives. Can you comment on how you're issuing customers are performing versus the contractual obligations that were set up when you entered in each of those, just directionally better, worse, in line?

BYRON POLLITT: Most of the incentives that we commit to contractually today are in the United States. So as a backdrop it's the economy is more challenging and if payment volume is growth rates are less than what they have been over the past several years when the U.S. economy was stronger, then it would be natural for the incentive payouts to -- earn outs to be less than what they would have been a year or two ago. And these things are difficult to model absent knowing exactly what growth rate each individual client is delivering. But I would say on average as a US portfolio it is paying out less primarily driven by the economic environment that all of our clients find themselves in today in the US.

ANDREW JEFFREY: Okay. So any view toward ongoing or maybe accelerated deceleration if you will, a slowdown in volume growth would have probably a commensurate positive effect, if you will, on the contra revenue line.

JOE SAUNDERS: What we tried to give you to be helpful is first with -- very near term what we indicated that for the fourth quarter of this year we think the incentives -- we think of it as incentives as a percent of gross revenue. We are suggesting that or guiding that we think it will be around 16% incentive to gross revenue in the fourth quarter, which is in that range -- a much more normalized range of incentives to gross revenue. So something in that range of 16% to 17% is something that we think is -- would be fair to think about in the near term.

ANDREW JEFFREY: Okay. And then just a question on the competitive environment. Anything changing first of all on pricing? And then second MasterCard's announced a fairly aggressive push into debit, one of the features of which this is option to use any MasterCard signature debit card as a pin debit card, any view how that might sway issuers decisions as to who'd they rather, whose brand they would have predominant on their cards?

JOE SAUNDERS: We are mindful what MasterCard has done. And we are respectful of them and what they have done. But I would -- there is no way in the world that I would guide you to the fact that we are going to lose any significant debit volume in the near future, or the future that I can see.

ANDREW JEFFREY: Alright. That's pretty definitive. Thank you very much.

JACK CARSKY: We probably have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Okay. Thank you, sir. The next question is from Bruce Harting of Lehman Brothers.

BRUCE HARTING, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I looks like this is your strongest debit volume growth quarter in the last seven or eight. Maybe how high can you go and how low do you think the credit growth can go specific to the US? Joe, you mentioned you have the ability to visit Washington. Can you -- if you could could you frame the debate as you see it and what the Visa platform is? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I think that we are looking at reasonably steady state growth parameters in the credit and debit right now. I don't see it changing a lot, even when I -- in the near future, but I don't know. It's not predictable. As it relates to Washington, I think what we said earlier was that we have an ability to go there, and we have an ability to talk to them, and we have an ability to lay out the facts, and we are considerably more positive about the end result than we might have been even a couple of months ago. And we will continue to do that. And of course I'm talking about interchange. I'm not talking about fair credit billing practices. That is not an issue that we are directly involved in. It is not an issue that we would talk to anybody in Washington about. That is an issue between financial institutions and the fed and congress.

BRUCE HARTING: Thanks. Is there anything between now and the election that would come forth out of Washington on interchange?

JOE SAUNDERS: I don't believe so.

BRUCE HARTING: Okay. Thank you.

JACK CARSKY: Okay. Thank you all very much for joining us today. If anybody has follow-up questions please feel free to call investor relations.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080806e47u002c1
  


 HD
 Q2  2008  Visa  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,498 words
   PD
28 April 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I will be your conference operator today. At this time, we would like to welcome everyone to Visa Incorporated fiscal second quarter 2008 earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Jack Carsky, Head of Global Investor Relations for Visa, Incorporated. Sir, you may begin your conference.

   TD
JACK CARSKY, HEAD, GLOBAL IR, VISA INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa Inc.'s fiscal second quarter earnings conference call. Speaking today are Joe Saunders, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Byron Pollitt, our Chief Financial Officer. This call is currently being webcast live over the Internet. It can be accessed on the Investor Relations' section of our website at www.corporate.Visa.com. A replay of the webcast will also be archived on our site for 30 days. The PowerPoint deck containing highlights of today's commentary is also posted to our website.

Let me please remind you that this presentation may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and as a result of a variety of factors, actual results could differ materially from such statements. Additional information concerning those factors is available in the Company's filings with the SEC, which can be accessed through the SEC website and on the Investor Relations section of the Visa website. For historical non-GAAP or pro forma related financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and other information required by Regulation G of the SEC are available in the financial and statistical summary accompanying our fiscal second quarter earnings press release. This release can also be accessed through the Investor Relations' section of our website. With that said, I'll turn the call over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Jack. And thanks everyone for joining us this afternoon. Before I get into a discussion of the quarter's financial results, I wanted to spend a moment reviewing what has been accomplished thus far to take the Company public. Everyone in the organization has worked extremely hard over the past two years to form what is today Visa Inc. From the initial merger that brought together the five autonomous payment organizations, to putting in place the systems, mechanics, policies and processes to allow the Corporation to work as one entity, all of which required an extraordinary effort for which I thank everyone and I'm extremely proud.

Significantly, all of this was done while successfully continuing to grow the business and its revenue and profitability which are reflected in our earnings results this quarter. Every member of the organization is to be commended for an outstanding job and I am grateful for their hard work. With that, let me go over the inaugural public quarterly results.

Earlier today in our press release we announced our fiscal second quarter 2008 financial results on both a GAAP and adjusted basis. For the purposes of this afternoon's conversations with all of you, we are going to refer to our results on an adjusted basis which management believes is much more indicative of the true operating earnings power of the franchise. We'll also provide a clearer understanding of the one time items related to our reimbursable litigation, restructuring and initial public offering expenses that have had an important impact on our total expenses and taxes.

Recognizing that we have a very complicated share structure involving multiple classes of stock, we have also provided our fully diluted A common shares outstanding on an adjusted basis which reflects the shares outstanding figure for October 2008 when the full redemption of the Class C series two and partial redemption of the Class C series three for Visa Europe occurs. As e move through the balance of this year it is our intention to continue to offer you this perspective and updates where applicable in addition to the GAAP equivalents. With that, let's discuss the quarter's performance.

Visa, Inc. is off to a great start. Despite a challenging economic environment, we delivered strong financial results and recorded strong product growth in our inaugural quarter as a public Company. For the fiscal second quarter, net income on an adjusted basis was $401 million or $0.52 per diluted Class A common share on an adjusted basis of 779 million shares outstanding. This represents a 44% increase over adjusted pro forma net income of $278 million in the comparable 2007 period. There's no appropriate diluted earnings per share comparison for 2007 as in the prior year, under the association model we were a non stock Corporation.

On a sequential quarter basis, these results were ahead of our internal budget projections made at the outset of our fiscal 2008 year, due to stronger payments volume and transaction growth. While we continue to see some softness in the traditional U.S. credit card growth as we have all year, as we anticipated, it is largely but not entirely being offset by debit and rewards card growth in the U.S. and robust growth internationally. At this time we see no discernible trend of a softer U.S. economy meaningfully affecting our payment volumes.

In that regard, during the quarter we experienced strong growth worldwide and across our diverse product set, credit, debit and commercial. Notably, payments volume, which is the primary driver of our revenue increased 19% to $681 billion in the first fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2007. Total volume, which includes cash volume, increased 21% to 1.1 trillion. Cash volume primarily represents debit and credit cards used at ATMs rather than a point of sale and although we do not view cash volume per se as a profit driver of the business, it is a metric we focus on as it offers an enormous opportunity to further migrate our card holders away from cash transaction, point of sale, credit and debit transaction. As you know, we report these metrics -- all of these metrics, above metrics on a one quarter lag basis.

On a current quarter basis, for our fiscal third quarter, we expect a similar rate of payment volume growth. Long-term, we expect that the secular shift towards plastic and away from cash and check, augmented by further product enhancements and new product development will continue to further drive growth. Year-over-year, card growth was 16% with more than 1.6 billion cards carrying the Visa brand. Credit grew 12% to 796 million cards while debit rose 21% to 820 million. Net operating revenues were strong in the fiscal second quarter at $1.5 billion or an increase of 22% over the second quarter of 2007 on a pro forma basis. As we saw solid growth across all categories. Price adjustments made last year, ahead of our transition to a public Company, which were in full effect by the third quarter of 2007, had an impact on the second quarter's results year-over-year. Partially for this reason, net operating revenues will be modestly lower than our volume growth rates in the next two quarters.

Our current expectation for revenue growth over the next quarter is at the higher end of the range of our long-term annual revenue guidance of 11 to 15% and is ahead of what we had planned coming into the year. Having said that, we recognize that the economic backdrop is increasingly challenging for many businesses here in the U.S. and could still impact our fiscal fourth quarter. Globally, we should continue to benefit from the overall secular shifts in the payments space, as well as increases in the amount of non-discretionary purchases on both credit and debit products and cross border transactions.

Before I turn the call over to Byron, let me quickly discuss one legal matter. As far as our covered litigation is concerned, there is little incremental to report. As disclosed in our prospectus in conjunction with our IPO, we took an additional FAS 5 reserve of $285 million for covered litigation in the fiscal second quarter. We made our first payment to American Express at the end of the quarter which Byron will discuss further. Our $3 billion escrow and the mechanism we established to address the outstanding covered litigation cases, protects our public shareholders from liabilities associated with these cases and ensures that the related expense is fully reimbursable. With that, let me turn the call over to Byron who will take you through the financial results.

BYRON POLLITT, CFO, VISA INC.: Thank you, Joe. Before I discuss our financial performance, I would like to share with everyone our philosophy around earnings guidance so that you can put current quarter performance in perspective. Our approach will be to provide a medium term outlook covering a three-year period for the following key metrics. First, annual net revenue growth of 11 to 15%. Annual adjusted operating margin in the low 40% range. Annual adjusted diluted Class A common earnings per share growth of 20% or more. Annual free cash flow in excess of 1 billion annually and we define free cash flow as cash from operations, plus cash reimbursements from the litigation escrow, less capital spending. These metrics will be supplemented by updates and additional insights where and when appropriate.

Payment volume growth was very strong in the second quarter, compared to the prior year, as we posted double-digit increases in each of our regions. While the international regions are our fastest growing, the U.S. continues to represent the greatest portion of our revenue and offers significant opportunity as we continue to build out credit and debit and expand into new payment categories. Continued strong growth and revenue performance out of Asia Pacific, Latin America, and Central Europe, Middle East and Africa will be driven by growth in new cards, usage and acceptance.

Process transactions or those that we define as being processed on the Visa network, totaled $8.8 billion in the fiscal second quarter, an increase of 15% over the similar period a year ago. Not only do we generate higher revenue from the transactions we process, we can also offer value-added products and services to our clients as a result of the information we are able to capture at the point of sale. One key focus area in the near term is building out these processing capabilities internationally. Gross revenues of 1.8 billion were up 30% over the $1.4 billion reported in the comparable quarter of 2007. Volume and support incentives increased by $151 million to $338 million, from the prior year and by $88 million from the first quarter. While new acceptance contracts and multi-year bank agreements resulted in higher incentives, it is important to note that 2007 also included certain accounting adjustments which resulted in an unusually low level of incentives during that fiscal year.

Total net operating revenues were approximately $1.5 billion, a 22% increase over the pro forma operating revenues of $1.2 billion reported for the second quarter of 2007. As Joe mentioned, this quarter benefited from price adjustments primarily in non-U.S. regions, that were fully implemented in the fiscal third quarter of 2007 which we do not expect to continue in future quarters. In our core business, we saw excellent results across all of our key fee categories. Service fees, which reflect payments volume from the prior quarter, were $792 million, up 29% over the pro forma results of that -- of the prior period, reflective of higher volume and pricing adjustments instituted in the third fiscal quarter of 2007.

Data processing fees rose 34% over pro forma results to $494 million, and were driven by a 15% increase in process transactions as well as pricing changes initiated in April of 2007. International transactions or cross-border fees were up 35% to $379 million, and continue to benefit from higher multi-currency payments, volumes across all regions. Our adjusted operating margin was approximately 46% in the quarter, a little ahead of our stated long-term guidance of low 40s, as we benefited from continued strong revenues in the period and a lower than anticipated marketing spend level in the quarter.

Despite our results year-to-date, we expect a lower adjusted operating margin in the second half of the year due to higher expense levels, primarily associated with Olympic related marketing and increasing investment in new product initiatives. On a full year basis, this puts us in the range of a low 40s adjusted operating margin. Total expenses increased $307 million or 39%, driven primarily by a $285 million litigation provision in the quarter, related to our retrospective responsibility plan. Sequentially, expenses were relatively flat after adjusting for the provision. Year-over-year, advertising, marketing, and promotional costs increased $33 million, or 18% to $215 million, tied primarily to the upcoming Olympic games.

Professional and consulting fees declined $40 million to $96 million over the prior year, and this category will increase in the second half of 2008, driven by supportive new product initiatives. Capital expenditures were $166 million in the quarter. We expect capital expenditures to remain at an elevated level through the end of fiscal 2009 as we complete our new East Coast data processing center. After this, we expect capital expenditures to run at around 3 to 4% of gross revenue on an annualized basis.

As a result of the IPO, we were the beneficiary of a one-time tax adjustment in the second quarter, totaling $107 million, due to a change in our state tax apportionment that resulted in a remeasurement of our deferred taxes. While our full year effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 37%, we expect our effective tax rate for future quarters in 2008 to be approximately 41%. Our goal is to reduce this 41% rate to a level around 35 to 36% over the next five years.

We ended the second quarter with cash, cash equivalents, available for sale investments and restricted cash of $8 billion. Restricted cash of approximately $2.1 billion represented the balance of the $3 billion litigation escrow established at the IPO after making the initial payment to American Express of $945 million as part of our legal settlement. Unencumbered cash and cash equivalents of $5 billion includes $2.7 billion we intend to use to redeem all of the series 2 and a portion of the series 3 Class C shares this October that are held by Visa Europe. Management is very focused on not allowing excess cash to build up on our balance sheet and to that end is currently considering a share repurchase program in fiscal 2009.

Goodwill increased by $1.1 billion from the prior quarter, primarily as a result of the true-up of regional ownership which occurred shortly before the IPO. In this process, ownership was reallocated between regional owners based on each region's financial performance in the four quarters ended December 31, 2007. As a result of the true-up, on a net basis, approximately 26 million additional shares of Class C were issued, resulting in a 4 percentage point reduction in the ownership interest of the Visa USA member group with a corresponding increase in the collective ownership interest of the other stockholders. As Visa USA was deemed to be the accounting acquirer in the reorganization, these shares constituted additional purchase consideration Visa USA paid to you acquire the regional businesses. We have valued these shares at the IPO price of $44 per share, resulting in an increase of $1.1 billion in goodwill and shareholders' equity.

Turning to our cash flow schedule, please note that the $945 million payment to American Express is reflected under operating activity, resulting in a negative cash flow for the period, while the reimbursement is reflected under financing activities. Subject to that adjustment, we expect to throw off over $1 billion in operating cash flow this year.

Now let me comment on what we see over the balance of 2008. As I mentioned a moment ago, we entered 2008 with the expectation that a softer U.S. economy would have an effect on our payment volume and revenue growth over the next several quarters. What we have seen to date, however, is continued solid payment growth. We also have a pretty clear view into our U.S. payment volume for January through March, which will be reflected in service fee revenue in our third fiscal quarter. Based on this early view, we are running at the higher end of our stated revenue guidance range of 11 to 15%. Nevertheless, at some point the softening economy will likely impact our business in the U.S. Although we remain confident in our growth projections, we will continue to monitor and provide updates as necessary.

As noted earlier, expect our annual adjusted operating margin to be in the low 40% range for fiscal 2008. Adjusted diluted earnings per share growth is on track to meet our current goal of greater than 20% and lastly, subject to declaration by the Board, we plan on paying our initial dividend in the third calendar quarter. That concludes my comments so I'll turn the call back over to Joe.

JOE SAUNDERS: Thanks, Byron. In closing, let me quickly sum up the initiatives we are most focused on over the coming quarters and a little further out. As we shared with many of you on our IPO road show, we have a number of exciting opportunities in front of us, domestically and internationally. First and foremost, our focus lies in our continuing to build and expand our suite of products here in the U.S. Personal consumption expenditures on cash and check in this country totaled $4.7 trillion last year, which provides us with a lot of runway for growth. Secondarily, we want to -- secondarily but I might add as importantly, we want to export these same products around the globe.

Moving over the $1.4 trillion of cash volume on Visa branded cards to credit and debit at the point of the sale is an enormous opportunity. So building out usage and acceptance globally is job one. Our debit processing position is second to none in the U.S. and applying this internationally would serve our clients, consumers and businesses around the world.

Other opportunities include prepaid products, money transfer, increased Internet penetration and mobile technology. Prepaid cards are already in the marketplace, are gaining traction and will represent a rapidly growing piece of our business. Money transfer represents an area of the payment business that is new to Visa but which would fit seamlessly into our payment network. We are are equally excited about our plans to continue to expand access channels for card users, both in Internet and mobile technology. While we are the payments leader in the Internet space, we are continuing to focus on security, convenience and enhancing the checkout process to increase our market share. On the mobile technology front, we are focused on enabling the mobile device to support Visa payments, including money transfer and person-to-person payments, and to serve as a Visa acceptance device in emerging markets. As the payments industry leader and innovator we believe that we are best positioned to capture these product opportunities. We will continue to update you on these initiatives as events unfold. With that, we are ready to take questions. Given the large audience on the call we ask that you limit yourself to one question. Operator?

OPERATOR: At this time, all lines are in listen-only. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Tien-tsin Huang from JPMorgan you may ask your questions.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I'll try and do one question. I guess on the economy, the obligatory question, glad to hear that the volume growth sounds like it's running at stable levels. Maybe can you give us more detail on U.S. volume trends and how it tracked month to month in the second quarter. Secondly, get a lot of questions about the economic stimulus and what the rebate checks, given what you've seen in the past, what kind of near term impact could that have on volumes?

BYRON POLLITT: Well, our volumes in the U.S. have been -- remain fairly constant. They're down modestly as the year has gone on. But we continue to get, as I mentioned in the talk, we continue to get a lot of support from our international volume and from our -- and particularly from our debit volume in the United States which is growing at mid-double-digit rates and actually from our rewards and signature credit products. So while this could have an impact on -- in the fourth quarter, that remains -- that really remains to be seen. We've kind of been looking for it and it hasn't substantially occurred yet. As I mentioned on the call, our growth rates in the -- in our third quarter or this current quarter will be very similar to what they were in the second quarter. As it relates to the tax rebates, I can't answer that question. I'm not an economist,. I would hope that it would boost our volume but I -- but I'll reserve judgment on that.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: Okay. Sounds like it could be some potential upside. If I could ask a quick follow-up to Byron, the impact of currency on revenue growth in the quarter.

BYRON POLLITT: With regards to FX, recognizing that over 70% of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, the FX impact in the quarter was about 3 percentage points of growth.

TIEN-TSIN HUANG: 3 points. Got it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Liz Grausam from Goldman Sachs, you may ask your question.

LIZ GRAUSAM, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, just continuing on from Tien-tsin's question, we did notice that volumes not only were stable in the U.S. but actually accelerated across both debit and credit across the prior four quarters. Also, card growth was extremely strong at over 13% in the quarter. Could you give us some perspective on whether or not you're seeing any market share gain or portfolio movements into the Visa brand and how your card growth is that strong in the U.S. currently.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, our card growth is as strong as it is primarily due to the debit product. That would take -- that takes the growth clearly into the double-digit range. As it relates to market share, the only thing I can say is -- well, I can remind you that we resigned a couple of large clients in the first quarter and tell you that we are very aggressive, from a competitive point of view and we're comfortable with where we are and what's going on.

LIZ GRAUSAM: Byron, on the rebates and incentives that you had in the quarter, obviously ticked up from a year-over-year basis but a little bit below our expectations actually. How should we think about going forward into the rest of 2008 and 2009, the incentive line as a percentage of gross revenue?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, so as a reminder to the group and as I mentioned in the opening remarks, the incentive levels for fiscal year 2007 were unusually low as we prepared for our IPO, we standardized our accounting for this element and we had some accounting adjustments that lowered the -- kind of the normalized run rate of incentives. So looking forward into 2008, if you were to combine the first six months of incentives as a percent of gross revenue, we view that as a much more normalized rate of incentive composition, recognizing that there are a lot of factors that go into the incentive calculation, but we think that the level of incentives in the first six months of fiscal year 2008 is representative of what you might expect for the full year.

LIZ GRAUSAM: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Adam Frisch from UBS, you may ask your question.

ADAM FRISCH, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, guys. Congrats on the deal in the quarter. Wanted to ask you a different question, first for Joe and then Byron, I had a question for you. Joe, there obviously was a lot of time and resources spent on the deal, not only in the past month on the road but also the several quarters before that from your management team. Do you feel now that the deal is done, everyone is back in their seats doing their regular jobs, that you kind of -- you made up maybe some of the lost time that was spent on the transaction itself or do you feel you still have some stuff to do there to get back up to speed or back to where you want to be and what would those issues be?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I can assure you that we're back to work on a full-time -- actually on an overtime basis. I'm very happy with the progress that we're making. We have a great management team and we're all focused on going in the same direction and we're continuing to do the things that we have indicated publicly that we're going to do and I'm very confident we're going to get where we said we were going and that things will work out well.

ADAM FRISCH: Okay. And then Byron, a follow-up. You said the three-year target for operating margins is in the low 40s but you're there already. Where do you expect, if that were to change two things, one, which line items would you expect the most divergence from your prior expectations and what time of year would you address them? Would they be as you go or would you only update those three-year guidance metrics at certain times of the year like fiscal year-end calls or something like that.

BYRON POLLITT: Let me respond to the first part of your statement which is that you're already there. I just want to remind the group that yes, in the first and second quarter our adjusted operating margins are above the level that we've been guiding to, namely low 40s. But the level of spending in the first and second quarter of the fiscal year is lower than what we expect in the second half, both in the third and fourth quarter. And so when we guide to low 40s, we have in mind a full year perspective with a higher spend level, particularly in the marketing area and in what we designate as professional fees, which is the category in which we booked a lot of the cost associated with new product initiatives, which we will be intensifying that focus in the second year now that everybody is back in their seats, so-to-speak.

And as we think about the margin going forward, again, I would just remind the group that Visa did not exist as a global entity prior to October 3, 2007. And so we still have a lot of work to do to evaluate the appropriate levels of marketing, which we intend to put under a very thoughtful return on investment set of criteria. The second line that we will be looking very hard at is the professional fees. In order to sustain longer term, double-digit revenue growth, we are very committed to launching new product and the development of those new product initiatives, a lot of that cost will be in the professional fee line.

And then also, as you can imagine with the merging of the businesses, there's a lot of rationalization still to take place as we integrate all the different regions into a streamlined, cost effective global enterprise and so we would expect over time to have adjustments in the personnel line. So I would say those are the three lines to focus on and our guidance today reflects in part that we still need some thoughtful time together to engineer those to an appropriate level, at which time if our margin guidance changed, we will update all of you.

ADAM FRISCH: Okay. Does Antonio have any update or do you have any update on Antonio's analysis of the marketing expense, or what kind of time frame are we looking at on that?

BYRON POLLITT: Later this calendar year we will be able to talk about that, recognizing, again, that Antonio has only been with us -- Antonio, for those on the phone, is our Chief Marketing Officer has only been with us several months and has well under way a review globally of all our marketing and promotional programs and so much more to come later in the year.

ADAM FRISCH: Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Craig Maurer from Calyon, you may ask your question.

CRAIG MAURER, ANALYST, CALYON SECURITIES: Good afternoon. Two questions, one on marketing. If you strip out what you're doing around the Olympics, would the U.S. -- would you be seeing less opportunity in the U.S. right now? So would your domestic budget on marketing be shrinking? And two, are there any pricing changes that we should expect to see coming down the pike, whether it be on cross-border or whatnot in coming quarters? Thanks.

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, the answer to the question is that we get some of our strongest return on investments in advertising that we do in the United States. And particularly that advertising that is associated with expanding the usage parameters of the card. We've moved with the debit card and the credit card into a lot of payment categories, fast food, utilities, and a number of things and it's been helped, aided by our advertising. But I don't want to get -- I don't think I should get too involved in that at this particular point in time, other than to say from a budgeting point of view and what we anticipate our marketing spending is very consistent with everything that we planned for the year. And so, by the way, is our budget for the third and the fourth quarter. We are probably in a position to slightly overdeliver on what we had as an initial budget, but basically we're really quite on track and we are on track on a quarter by quarter basis as it relates to margins and everything else.

BYRON POLLITT: On the pricing front, as you may recall, most of the pricing adjustments we made were done in 2007 and in fact we're beginning to annualize some of those expenses, some of those adjustments, many of which were initiated in the -- and became effective at the beginning of the third fiscal quarter of 2007. So the primary adjustments we made to bring us to a much more comparable level to MasterCard were done in '07. We have some much more modest price increases that -- or adjustments that are being made effective this month. They relate to U.S. ISA fees and so that the level of price adjustment in '08 is much more modest. We feel that our pricing levels now are very comparable, maybe slightly lower, but pretty comparable to MasterCard.

CRAIG MAURER: Okay. Thanks, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Dan Perlin from Wachovia Securities, you may ask your question.

DAN PERLIN, ANALYST, WACHOVIA SECURITIES: I just want to make sure I heard one of the things correctly. Byron, you said January to March data is trending kind of right in line with what we've seen and then you threw out revenue numbers at the high end, 11 to 15%. So are you saying that the January to March domestic numbers are running at 15%?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, so the--.

DAN PERLIN: Would that compare to the 12% that you just--?

BYRON POLLITT: Let me clarify. What we said was the January -- we have very clear visibility to our payment volume numbers for January, February and March, which are the primary driver of our service fee income for the next quarter. So January, February and March payment volume informs service fee income, in this case in fiscal Q3. Based on our visibility to that purchase volume and how it translates into our net revenue, we are guiding or we are forecasting that our revenue should be in the upper end of 11 to 15% range that we have guided for the enterprise globally, recognizing that that service fees represent around 40% of our total net revenue.

DAN PERLIN: Right. And this compares to what maybe you had originally thought which would have been somewhere in the 11% range?

BYRON POLLITT: What we had originally anticipated at the beginning of the fiscal year, so this would have been back in that September, October time frame, was that the looming specter of a U.S. downturn would start to impact us by the third and fourth quarter, fiscal quarter, so our original expectation was that we would have purchase volume in the U.S. that would have been lower than what we actually saw in the January through March time period.

DAN PERLIN: Good. So that's a notable pickup. Can you just remind us the incremental Olympic spend expected in the second half?

BYRON POLLITT: I don't think we can remind what we didn't--.

DAN PERLIN: I'll try it again.

BYRON POLLITT: But we appreciate you asking.

DAN PERLIN: Very good. I'll hop off. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW you may ask your question.

SANJAY SAKHRANI, ANALYST, KBW: You guys had talked about a framework around the restructuring. I just was wondering sort of where you guys were in the process. I think, Byron, you mentioned that the synergy number that you guys have talked about is still a moving target.

BYRON POLLITT: Again, as you all can appreciate, we have done a preliminary analysis of the synergy or cost reduction or cost improvement opportunities associated with bringing together the five regions that merged on October 3. On a preliminary basis, management has identified approximately $300 million worth of cost opportunity, which it believes is attainable over the next two years. So that's where we currently stand with regards to expense opportunity, but I'll just remind the group at the same time that it is our intent to reinvest aggressively into new product initiatives and much of that reinvestment does take the form of expense. So in the coming quarters, we will talk more about our progress on this front, but that gives you our initial view of what the cost opportunity was as it relates to the merger.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay. And just one follow-up. On the volume numbers just so I'm clear, you guys mentioned January through March being pretty solid, but is there any color on April and May? I would assume you guys saying there's no discernible impact means April and May are pretty okay too?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, Byron can discuss that further but May isn't here yet and we're--.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: I'm sorry, April.

JOE SAUNDERS: Byron, go ahead.

BYRON POLLITT: Yes. So if -- this is a little bit like reading tea leaves, but if you take a look at March and April as opposed to January and February, we are starting to see some potential softening, particularly in traditional credit, but at the same time there is no discernible trend yet that we can call out and what is adding to the difficulty in reading it is the Easter shift, which last year Easter was in April, this year it was in March and that's, given the retail impact that that has, it muddies the waters. But so possibly, but no clear discernible trend yet, but stepping back, we do expect to still see strong double-digit year-over-year growth and sequentially we still expect to see lift in both payment volume and net revenue quarter-to-quarter.

SANJAY SAKHRANI: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Patrick Burton from CitiGroup, you may ask your question.

PATRICK BURTON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Yes, hi, congratulations on a very solid quarter, guys. My question is for Byron, and that is the international transaction fee revenue, the actual dollar amount was down from the first quarter, which is the first time that's happened in the last five quarters. Can you talk about what's underlying international transaction fees?

BYRON POLLITT: Yes, so on the -- what I would say, this one is -- has not normalized yet because, number one, we did have some pricing adjustments to that line in the previous year. It is also one that is seasonal and so it's got to be careful at looking at it from quarter-to-quarter. At the moment, we've got strong year-over-year growth and I think once this year runs out and we annualize the pricing adjustments, it will be easier to read what the underlying activity -- what the underlying activity is that's driving it. This is clearly one of the more volatile lines in the revenue component, because it's so directly related to travel, currency impact is another factor that influences the amount we ultimately book at revenue. And as I indicated earlier, this is an area where we took some pricing adjustment outside the U.S. last year. We're doing it modestly inside the U.S. this year. So this line will take a a year before it normalizes.

PATRICK BURTON: In terms of the underlying level of travel, however you want to define it, you're not seeing any slowdown there yet with the economy?

BYRON POLLITT: No. What we're seeing, we're seeing strong growth, both in the U.S. as well as outside the U.S. So if it's a slowdown, it's not discernible to us yet.

PATRICK BURTON: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus, you may ask your question.

CHRIS BRENDLER, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks. Good afternoon. Can you talk at all about -- I'm a little confused a lot of it hasn't been asked already. But the transaction growth of 15% in March, is a pretty material acceleration from recent quarters. Any additional color on what drove the bump in transaction growth?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I don't think we've talked about transaction growth. We've talked about dollar volume growth and revenue growth.

CHRIS BRENDLER: This is a March number too. It's sort of the opposite of what we'd think. You saw actual pick-up in transactions in March quarter.

BYRON POLLITT: It's the quarter ended March. So recognizing that the prime -- that a major driver of our growth over the past quarter has been debit and that debit typically has a lower average ticket than credit does, for a given payment volume that has a higher mix of debit, you would expect to see some acceleration in the growth of transaction versus the mix of a year ago, which would have been somewhat less in debit.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. So it's a function of just the math of the average ticket?

BYRON POLLITT: It's a -- yes, it's a function of debit usage, is more transaction intensive per dollar of spend than credit.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. And then have you discussed or disclosed at all what percentage of your revenues are transaction based rather than volume based?

BYRON POLLITT: No, we haven't.

CHRIS BRENDLER: It's not as simple as just service fees or volumes, the rest is transactions?

BYRON POLLITT: What we -- well, we haven't disclosed that at this point yet, but we'll take that thought under advisement.

CHRIS BRENDLER: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Tim Willi from Avondale Partners, you may ask your question.

TIM WILLI, ANALYST, AVONDALE PARTNERS: Thanks, good afternoon. A question about the emerging markets, I would expect that in the coming years you'll have lots of press releases about new technologies and payments tools, et cetera. I guess my curiosity is that some of the stuff you're working on and incubating and you look at the global payments marketplace, are there any types of payments where you're going to develop something that you think could actually have a significant impact on adoption of electronic payments and subsequently volume and transaction growth or should we expect that as you announce new products and technologies, that these really just are tools that support sort of sustainable growth rate of volumes and transactions that you've articulated?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, the answer to that is a little bit of both, I guess. I think if you look at our primary initiatives, we've separated them into -- well, actually six categories, so if you look at globalizing our debit product, that's transferring our current technology. But pretty much as it exists today. If you look at prepaid cards, that is a relatively new platform, so we're -- we're initiating a relatively different processing capability into the market. If you look at the money transfer, that's an entirely new business that we are trying to get into, so that would be new technology. If you look on the other side of the coin at the Internet and mobile technology, those are initiatives that we use to both generate more volume by getting a greater share of the volume that is out there, and it's of course in a space, the Internet, which is growing in and of itself. And at the same time, since Internet is growing and since mobile technology will probably appear, we need to do those things to sustain our day-to-day volume. But it's a combination of sustaining your day-to-day volume and doing it in a way that allows you to capture a larger part of the market than we currently have.

TIM WILLI: Just to make sure I understand, the answer there is that it is possible, I guess, to maybe not one single product or press release announcement could change the way we think about the growth rate of the Company, but there is a possibility here that whether it be a geographic region or international versus domestic, that you do see things in development or just taking existing platforms and moving them overseas where we could say hey, growth rates here actually could accelerate for a couple years because we've made something much more widely available, or it's hitting a point of critical mass rather than sort of just a trend line kind of growth rate that will never really accelerate and deviate from where it's at?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, obviously, we have a huge opportunity to move technology out of the U.S. and move products out of the U.S. and into the rest of the world and simply by doing that, we create an enormous opportunity. But we're also, as I said, developing new technologies and new products and I think that the answer lies in the nexus of all of those things and how they come together over the next few years, but I think it will result in phenomenal growth opportunities for us.

TIM WILLI: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Mammone from Deutsche Bank, you may ask your question.

CHRIS MAMMONE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, thanks. First, just to confirm, related to the Olympics that the bulk of advertising spending will occur in the quarter that the Olympics occur, I guess that would be your fiscal fourth quarter, not the quarter leading into the Olympics? Your fiscal third quarter. And then also, is there anything else on the marketing front this fiscal year besides the Olympics that could be -- could cause a discernible increase in marketing spend?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, I mean, the Olympic advertising is going to be initiated on May 15, and it will run through the Olympics, obviously it will stop when the Olympics are over. The primary thrust of it will be from the middle of May until August, when the Olympics end. Was there a second point to the question?

CHRIS MAMMONE: Yes, just I guess besides the Olympics, are there any other one-off events through the course of the rest of the fiscal year that could cause a discernible lift in the marketing expenditure?

JOE SAUNDERS: I think that when we've talked about our marketing budget in the past or when we were on the road show, we talked about the marketing budget being in the neighborhood of $1 billion or a little bit -- or just a little bit more. And that's where we expect our marketing spend to be at this point in time.

CHRIS MAMMONE: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Greg Smith from Merrill Lynch, you may ask your question.

GREG SMITH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, guys. In the S1 you guys talked about some revenues paid by Visa Europe that could possibly go away as Visa Europe builds some of their own processing engines. Is that in fact still the case and is there any way to size that or give us timing on when those revenues could possibly go away?

BYRON POLLITT: We, on an ongoing basis, provide certain services to Visa Europe, mostly in the form of programming capability type service fees. This is pretty much a fee for labor incurred so -- and these amounts are not material. The only real material amount is the licensing fee, which is roughly $142 million a year and so while there is clearly some possibility that some of those services may decline over time, they're just not going to be -- they're not going to be material to our revenue.

GREG SMITH: Okay. Perfect. That clears it up. Then just lastly, MasterCard obviously launched a new debit processing platform. What kind of competitive threat do you view that as and anything that they're offering that you are not currently offering?

JOE SAUNDERS: Well, we did it 10 years ago and we think that we've refined it over that period of time to where we have a world class and the best debit processing platform in the world and we don't -- while we're mindful of what MasterCard has done and we are respectful of what they have done, we consider them to be significant competitors and terrific people who have done a terrific job, we're very, very comfortable with our debit platform.

GREG SMITH: Okay. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it.

JACK CARSKY: Operator at this time we probably have one more question, time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Howard Shapiro, you may ask your question.

HOWARD SHAPIRO, ANALYST, FOX PITT KETON: Thank you very much. Congratulations for a great start out of the gate. You guys have talked from a number of perspectives about what's driving growth in the U.S. and overseas. Wondering if you can help us decompose the volume growth in the U.S., just a little more precisely and tell us what the breakdown is between discretionary and non-discretionary spend, how non-discretionary spend is holding up or maybe even growing and contributing to the better than expected growth in the U.S. Thanks very much.

BYRON POLLITT: So the -- when you look at the -- when you deconstruct the growth in the U.S., I think as Joe mentioned earlier, the debit -- the growth in debit, both in cards issued and in spend is very, very solid and a significant increment above credit at this time. So that's the primary driver of growth, although both are experiencing -- are in fact growing. When it comes to non-discretionary versus discretionary, this is, again, more of a debit story in the sense that if you deconstruct our debit spend and look at the discretionary, non discretionary, non-discretionary would be a little over 50%, whereas non discretionary on credit is more in the range of 30%. So as debit continues to pick up share of U.S. payment volume for Visa, the component that is non-discretionary is naturally rising and so today it would be in the 40% range, non-discretionary for the combination of consumer debit and consumer credit.

JOE SAUNDERS: There are also a lot of power ticket items that would be considered discretionary that go through debit cards as we have expanded the (inaudible) parking lots, movie theaters, fast food restaurants, laundry mats, things that while they may not be non-discretionary, they tend to in this type of economy anyway, so we're very bullish on what's going on with our debit product now and it is fueling significant growth in the U.S.

HOWARD SHAPIRO: Great. Thank you very much.

JACK CARSKY: And thank you all for joining us today. If anybody has follow-up questions, please feel free to call Investor Relations.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
visa : Visa Inc
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080517e44s000t1
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and hd=visa not hd=event and co=v
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
34
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 9:08 AM GMT
  
